
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Check the circuit.
TYLER: All operating, sir.
SPOCK: It can't be the screen then. Definitely something out there, Captain, headed this way.
TYLER: It could be these meteorites.
ONE: No, it's something else. There's still something out there.
TYLER: It's coming at the speed of light, collision course. The meteorite beam has not deflected it, Captain.
ONE: Evasive maneuvers, sir?
PIKE: Steady as we go.
GARISON: It's a radio wave, sir. We're passing through an old-style distress signal.
PIKE: They were keyed to cause interference and attract attention this way.
GARISON: A ship in trouble making a forced landing, sir. That's it. No other message.
TYLER: I have a fix. It comes from the Talos star group.
ONE: We've no ships or Earth colonies that far out.
SPOCK: Their call letters check with a survey expedition. SS Columbia. It disappeared in that region approximately eighteen years ago.
TYLER: It would take that long for a radio beam to travel from there to here.
SPOCK: Records show the Talos group has never been explored. Solar system similar to Earth, eleven planets. Number four seems to be Class M, oxygen atmosphere.
ONE: Then they could still be alive, even after eighteen years.
PIKE: If they survived the crash.
SPOCK: We aren't going to go, to be certain?
PIKE: Not without any indication of survivors, no. Continue to the Vega Colony and take care of our own sick and injured first. You have the helm. Maintain present course.
ONE: Yes, sir.

[Pike's quarters]
PIKE: Drop by my cabin, Doctor. What's that? I didn't say there's anything wrong with me.
BOYCE: I understand we picked up a distress signal.
PIKE: That's right. Unless we get anything more positive on it, it seems to me the condition of our own crew takes precedent. I'd like to log the ship's doctor's opinion, too.
BOYCE: Oh, I concur with yours, definitely.
PIKE: Good. I'm glad you do, because we're going to stop first at the Vega Colony and replace anybody who needs hospitalization and also. What the devil are you putting in there, ice?
BOYCE: Who wants a warm martini?
PIKE: What makes you think I need one?
BOYCE: Sometimes a man'll tell his bartender things he'll never tell his doctor. What's been on your mind, Chris, the fight on Rigel Seven?
PIKE: Shouldn't it be? My own yeoman and two others dead, seven injured.
BOYCE: Was there anything you personally could have done to prevent it?
PIKE: Oh, I should have smelled trouble when I saw the swords and the armor. Instead of that, I let myself get trapped in that deserted fortress and attacked by one of their warriors.
BOYCE: Chris, you set standards for yourself no one could meet. You treat everyone on board like a human being except yourself, and now you're tired and you
PIKE: You bet I'm tired. You bet. I'm tired of being responsible for two hundred and three lives. I'm tired of deciding which mission is too risky and which isn't, and who's going on the landing party and who doesn't, and who lives and who dies. Boy, I've had it, Phil.
BOYCE: To the point of finally taking my advice, a rest leave?
PIKE: To the point of considering resigning.
BOYCE: And do what?
PIKE: Well, for one thing, go home. Nice little town with fifty miles of parkland around it. Remember I told you I had two horses, and we used to take some food and ride out all day.
BOYCE: Ah, that sounds exciting. Ride out with a picnic lunch every day.
PIKE: I said that's one place I might go. I might go into business on Regulus or on the Orion colony.
BOYCE: You, an Orion trader, dealing in green animal women, slaves?
PIKE: The point is this isn't the only life available. There's a whole galaxy of things to choose from.
BOYCE: Not for you. A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on, and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away.
PIKE: Now you're beginning to talk like a doctor, bartender.
BOYCE: Take your choice. We both get the same two kinds of customers. The living and the dying.
SPOCK (screen): Mister Spock here. We're intercepting a follow-up message, sir. There are crash survivors on Talos.

[Bridge]
GARISON: Eleven survivors from crash. Gravity and oxygen within limits. Food and water obtainable, but unless. The message faded at that point, sir.
PIKE: Address intercraft.
TYLER: System open.
PIKE: This is the captain. Our destination is the Talos star group. Our time warp, factor seven.
TYLER: Course computed and on the screen.
ONE: All decks have acknowledged, sir.
PIKE: Engage.
TYLER: On course, sir.
PIKE: Yeoman.
COLT: Yes, sir.
PIKE: I thought I told you that when I'm on the bridge
COLT: But you wanted the reports by oh five hundred. It's oh five hundred now, sir.
PIKE: Oh, I see. Thank you.
ONE: She's replacing your former yeoman, sir.
PIKE: She does a good job, all right. It's just that I can't get used to having a woman on the bridge. No offense, Lieutenant. You're different, of course.
TYLER: We've settled into orbit, sir.
GEOLOGIST: Geological lab report complete, Captain.
SPOCK: Preliminary lab survey ready, sir.
PIKE: Spectography?
GEOLOGIST: Our reading shows an oxygen nitrogen atmosphere, sir, heavy with inert elements but well within safety limits.
PIKE: Gravity?
GEOLOGIST: Zero point nine of Earth.
TYLER: Captain? Reflections, sir, from the planet's surface. As I read it, they polarize out as rounded metal bits. Could be parts of a spaceship hull.
PIKE: Prep a landing party of six. You feel up to it?
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
TYLER: Yes, sir.
PIKE: Sorry, Number One. With little information on this planet, we'll have to leave the ship's most experienced officer here covering us.
ONE: Of course, sir.

[Transporter room]
PIKE: There's no indication of problems down there, but let's not take chances.
PITCAIRN: Yes, sir. There's a canyon to the left. We can set you there completely unobserved.

[Planet surface]
GARISON: Sir.
OLD MAN: They're men. They're humans.
PIKE: Captain Christopher Pike, United Space Ship Enterprise.
HASKINS: Doctor Theodore Haskins, American Continent lnstitute.
SURVIVOR: Is Earth all right?
PIKE: The same old Earth, and you'll see it very soon.
TYLER: And you won't believe how fast you can get back. Well the time barrier's been broken. Our new ships can
HASKINS: This is Vina. Her parents are dead. She was born almost as we crashed.
PIKE: Enterprise.
ONE (voiceover): Landing party, come in.
PIKE: We'll begin transporting the survivors and their effects up to you very shortly.
ONE (voiceover): Quarters are being prepared, sir. Have I permission to send out scouting and scientific parties now?
PIKE: That's affirmative on the
VINA: You appear to be healthy and intelligent, Captain. A prime specimen.
ONE (voiceover): I didn't get that last message, Captain.
PIKE: Er, affirmative on request. Landing party out.
HASKINS: You must forgive her choice of words, Captain. She's lived her whole life with a collection of aging scientists.
BOYCE: If they can spare you a moment, I'd like to make my medical report.
VINA: I think it's time to show the Captain our secret.
BOYCE: Their health is excellent. Almost too good.
HASKINS: There's a reason for our condition, but we've had some doubt if Earth is ready to learn the secret. Let the girl show you. We'll accept your judgment.
VINA: You're tired, but don't worry. You'll feel much better soon. Don't you see it? Here and here.
PIKE: I don't understand.
VINA: You will. You're a perfect choice. (Vina vanishes, and so do all the survivors and their encampment. A door opens in the rock face, Pike is knocked out and taken inside. At the settlement -)
TYLER: Captain!
SPOCK: Spock here.
ONE (voiceover): Landing party, come in.
SPOCK: There is no survivors' encampment, Number One. This is all some sort of trap. We've lost the Captain. Do you read?

[Pike's cage]
PIKE: Can you hear me? My name is Christopher Pike, commander of the space vehicle Enterprise from a stellar group at the other end of this galaxy. Our intentions are peaceful. Can you understand me?
TALOSIAN: It appears, Magistrate, that the intelligence of the specimen is shockingly limited.
MAGISTRATE: This is no surprise since his vessel was baited here so easily with a simulated message. As you can read in its thoughts, it is only now beginning to suspect that the survivors and encampment were a simple illusion we placed in their minds.
PIKE: You're not speaking, yet I can hear you.
MAGISTRATE: You will note the confusion as it reads our thought transmissions.
PIKE: All right then, telepathy. You can read my mind. I can read yours. Now, unless you want my ship to consider capturing me an unfriendly act
MAGISTRATE: You now see the primitive fear threat reaction. The specimen is about to boast of his strength, the weaponry of his vessel, and so on. Next, frustrated into a need to display physical prowess, the creature will throw himself against the transparency.
PIKE: If you were in here, wouldn't you test the strength of these walls, too? There's a way out of any cage, and I'll find it.
MAGISTRATE: Despite its frustration, the creature appears more adaptable than our specimens from other planets. We can soon begin the experiment.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: The inhabitants of this planet must live deep underground, and probably manufacture food and other needs down there. Our tests indicate the planet surface, without considerably more vegetation or some animals, simply too barren to support life.
ONE: So we just thought we saw survivors there, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Exactly. An illusion placed in our minds by this planet's inhabitants.
BOYCE: It was a perfect illusion. They had us seeing just what we wanted to see, human beings who'd survived with dignity and bravery, everything entirely logical, right down to the building of the camp, the tattered clothing, everything. Now let's be sure we understand the danger of this. The inhabitants of this planet can read our minds. They can create illusions out of a person's own thoughts, memories, and experiences, even out of a person's own desires. Illusions just as real and solid as this table top and just as impossible to ignore.
ONE: Any estimate what they might want one of us for?
SPOCK: They may simply be studying the Captain, to find out how Earth people are put together. Or it could be something more.
TYLER: Then why aren't we doing anything? That entry may have stood up against hand lasers, but we can transmit the ship's power against it. Enough to blast half a continent.
SPOCK: Look. Brains three times the size of ours. If we start buzzing about down there, we're liable to find their mental power is so great they could reach out and swat this ship as though it were a fly.
TYLER: It's Captain Pike they've got. He needs help, and he probably needs it fast.
ONE: Engineering deck will rig to transmit ship's power. We'll try blasting through that metal.

[Talosian monitoring room]
TALOSIAN: Thousands of us are already probing the creature's thoughts, Magistrate. We find excellent memory capacity.
MAGISTRATE: I read most strongly a recent death struggle in which it fought to protect its life. We will begin with this, giving the specimen something more interesting to protect.

[Rigel Seven]
VINA: Come on, we must hide ourselves. Come, come. Hurry. It's deserted. There'll be weapons and perhaps food.
PIKE: This is Rigel Seven.
VINA: Please, we must hide ourselves.
PIKE: I was in a cage, a cell, in some kind of a zoo. I must still be there.
VINA: Come on.
PIKE: They've reached into my mind and taken the memory of somewhere I've been.
VINA: The killer!
PIKE: It's starting just as it happened two weeks ago. Except for you.

[Fortress]
PIKE: Longer hair, different dress, but it is you, the one the survivors called Vina. Or rather the image of Vina. But why you again? Why didn't they create a different girl?
VINA: Quick. If you attack while it's not looking.
PIKE: But it's only a dream.
VINA: You have to kill him as you did here before.
PIKE: You can tell my jailers I won't go along with it. I'm not an animal performing for its supper.
VINA: It doesn't matter what you call this, you'll feel it. That's what matters. You'll feel every moment of whatever happens to you. Please, don't you know what he'll do to us?
PIKE: Why would an illusion be frightened?
VINA: Because that's the way you imagined me.
PIKE: Who are you? You act as if this were really you.
VINA: Careful.

[Pike's cell]
VINA: It's over.
PIKE: Why are you here?
VINA: To please you.
PIKE: Are you real?
VINA: As real as you wish.
PIKE: No, no. No, that's not an answer. I've never met you before, never even imagined you.
VINA: Perhaps they made me out of dreams you've forgotten.
PIKE: What, and dress you in the same metal fabric they wear?
VINA: I have to wear something, don't I? I can wear whatever you wish, be anything you wish.
PIKE: So they can see how their specimen performs? They want to see how I react, is that it?
VINA: Don't you have a dream, something you've always wanted very badly?
PIKE: Or do they do more than just watch me? Do they feel with me, too?
VINA: You can have whatever dream you want. I can become anything, any woman you've ever imagined. You can have anything you want in the whole universe. Let me please you.
PIKE: Yes. Yes, you can please me. You can tell me about them. Is there any way I can keep them from probing my mind, from using my thoughts against me? Does that frighten you? Does that mean there is a way?
VINA: You're a fool.
PIKE: Since you're not real, there's not much point in continuing this conversation, is there.

[Planet surface]
ONE: All circuits engaged, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Standing by, Number One.
ONE: Take cover.
SPOCK (voiceover): Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
ONE: Increase to full power! Can you give us any more?
SPOCK (voiceover): Our circuits are beginning to heat. We'll have to cease power.
ONE: Disengage. The top of that knoll should have been sheared off the first second.
BOYCE: Maybe it was. It's what I tried to explain in the briefing room. Their power of illusion is so great, we can't be sure of anything we do, anything we see.

[Pike's cell]
VINA: Perhaps if you asked me some questions, I could answer.
PIKE: How far can they control my mind?
VINA: If I tell you, then will you pick some dream you've had and let me live it with you?
PIKE: Perhaps.
VINA: They can't actually make you do anything you don't want to do.
PIKE: But they try to trick me with their illusions.
VINA: And, they can punish you when you're not co-operative. You'll find out about that.
PIKE: Did they ever live on the surface of this planet? Why did they go underground?
VINA: War, thousands of centuries ago.
PIKE: That's why it's so barren up there? VINA; The planet's only now becoming able to support life again.
PIKE: So the Talosians who came underground found life limited here and they concentrated on developing their mental power.
VINA: But they found it's a trap. Like a narcotic. Because when dreams become more important than reality, you give up travel, building, creating. You even forget how to repair the machines left behind by your ancestors. You just sit, living and reliving other lives left behind in the thought record.
PIKE: Or sit probing minds of zoo specimens like me.
VINA: You're better than a theater to them. They create the illusion for you, they watch you react, feel your emotions. They have a whole collection of specimens, descendants of life brought back long ago from all over this part of the galaxy.
PIKE: Which means they had to have more than one of each animal.
VINA: Please.
PIKE: They'll need a pair of humans too. Where do they get intend to get the Earth woman?
VINA: You said that if I answered questions
PIKE: But that was a bargain with something that didn't exist. You said you weren't real, remember?
VINA: I'm a woman as real and as human as you are. We're like Adam and Eve. If we. Don't. Please don't punish me!
MAGISTRATE: The vial contains a nourishing protein complex.
PIKE: Is the keeper actually communicating with one of his animals?
MAGISTRATE: If the form and the color is not appealing, it can appear as any food you wish to visualize.
PIKE: And if I prefer
MAGISTRATE: To starve? You overlook the unpleasant alternative of punishment.
MAGISTRATE: From a fable you once heard in childhood. You will now consume the nourishment.
PIKE: Why not just put irresistible hunger in my mind? Because you can't, can you? You do have limitations, don't you?
MAGISTRATE: If you continue to disobey, from deeper in your mind, there are things even more unpleasant.
PIKE: That's very interesting.
MAGISTRATE: Now to the female.
PIKE: You were startled. Weren't you reading my mind then?
MAGISTRATE: As you've conjectured, an Earth vessel did crash on our planet, but with only a single survivor.
PIKE: No, let's stay on the first subject. All I wanted for that moment was to get my hands around your neck.
MAGISTRATE: We repaired the survivor's injuries and found the species interesting.
PIKE: Do primitive thoughts put up a block you can't read through?
MAGISTRATE: It became necessary to attract a mate.
PIKE: All right, all right, let's talk about the girl. You seem to be going out of your way to make her attractive, to make me feel protective.
MAGISTRATE: This is necessary in order to perpetuate the species.
PIKE: It seems more important to you now that I begin to accept her and like her.
MAGISTRATE: We wish our specimens to be happy in their new life.
PIKE: Assuming that's a lie, why would you want me attracted to her? So I'll feel love in a husband-wife relationship? That would be necessary only if you intend to build a family group or perhaps a whole human community.
MAGISTRATE: With the female now properly conditioned.
PIKE: You mean properly punished! I'm the one who's not co-operating! Why don't you punish me?
MAGISTRATE: First, an emotion of protectiveness. Now one of sympathy. Excellent.

[Woodland glade]
VINA: You want some coffee, dear? I left the thermos hooked to my saddle.
PIKE: Tango! You old devil, you. I'm sorry I don't have any sugar. Well, they think of everything, don't they?
VINA: Hey, your coffee. Is it good to be home?
PIKE: They read our minds very well. Home, anything else I want, if I co-operate, is that it?
VINA: Have you forgotten my headaches, darling? I get them when you talk strangely like this.
PIKE: Look, I'm sorry they punish you, but we can't let them
VINA: My, it turned out to be a lovely day, didn't it?
PIKE: It's funny. It's about twenty four hours ago I was telling the ship's doctor how much I wanted something else not very different from what we have here. An escape from reality. Life with no frustrations. No responsibilities. Now that I have it, I understand the doctor's answer.
VINA: I hope you're hungry. These little white sandwiches are your mother's recipe for chicken tuna.
PIKE: You either live life, bruises, skinned knees and all, or you turn your back on it and start dying. The doctor's going to be happy about one part, at least. He said I needed a rest.
VINA: This is a lovely place to rest.
PIKE: I used to ride through here when I was a kid. It's not as pretty as some of the parkland around the big cities, but. That's Mojave. That's where I was born.
VINA: Is that supposed to be news to your wife? You're home. You can even stay if you want. Wouldn't it be nice showing your children where you once played?
PIKE: These headaches, they'll be hereditary you know. Would you wish them on a child or a whole group of children?
VINA: Foolish.
PIKE: Is it? Look, first they made me protect you and then feel sympathy for you. Now we have these familiar surroundings and a comfortable husband-wife relationship. They don't need all this for just passion. What they're after is respect and mutual dependence.
VINA: They say in the olden days all this was a desert. Blowing sand and cactus.
PIKE: But we're not here, neither of us. We're in a menagerie, a cage!
VINA: No. PIKE; I can't help either one of us if you won't give me a chance. Now, you told me once they used illusions as a narcotic. They couldn't repair the machines left by their ancestors. Is that why they want us, to build a colony of slaves?
VINA: Stop it. Don't you care what they'll do to us?
PIKE: Back in my cage, it seemed for a couple of minutes that our keeper couldn't read my thoughts. Do emotions like hate, keeping hate in your mind, does that block off our mind from them?
VINA: Yes. They can't read through primitive emotions. But you can't keep it up for long enough. I've tried. They keep at you and at you year after year, tricking and punishing, and they won. They own me. I know you must hate me for that.
PIKE: Oh, no. I don't hate you. I can guess what it was like.
VINA: But that's not enough. Don't you see? They read my thoughts, my feelings, my dreams of what would be a perfect man. That's why they picked you. I can't help but love you and they expect you to feel the same way.
PIKE: If they can read my mind, then they know I'm attracted to you.

[Talosian monitoring room]
PIKE (screen): I was from the very first moment I saw you in the survivor's camp.
TALOSIAN: A curious species. They have fantasies they hide even from themselves.
VINA (screen): I'm beginning to see why none of this has worked for you. You've been home, and fighting as on Rigel. That's not new to you, either. A person's strongest dreams are about what he can't do. Yes, a ship's captain, always having to be so formal, so decent and honest and proper. You must wonder what it would be like to forget all that.

[Open air party]
OFFICER: Nice place you have here, Mister Pike.
PIKE: Vina?
ORION: Glistening green. Almost like secret dreams a bored ship captain might have.
OFFICER: Funny how they are on this planet. They actually like being taken advantage of. Suppose you had all of space to choose from, and this was only one small sample.
ORION: Wouldn't you say it was worth a man's soul?

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: We've located a magnetic field that seems to come from their underground generator.
GARISON: Could that be an illusion too?
ONE: Now, you all know the situation. We're hoping to transport down inside the Talosian community.
SPOCK: If our measurements and readings are an illusion also, one could find oneself materialized inside solid rock.
ONE: Nothing will be said if any volunteer wants to back out.
SPOCK: The women!

[Pike's cage]
ONE: Captain! Captain.
VINA: No! Let me finish!
ONE: But we were a party of six.
COLT: We were the only ones transported.
VINA: It's not fair. You don't need them.
PIKE: They don't work.
ONE: They were fully charged when we left. It's dead. I can't make a signal. What is it?
PIKE: Don't say anything. I'm filling my mind with a picture of beating their huge, misshapen heads to pulp, thoughts so primitive they black out everything else. I'm filling my mind with hate.
VINA: How long can you block your thoughts? A few minutes, an hour? How can that help?
COLT: Leave him alone.
VINA: He doesn't need you. He's already picked me.
COLT: Picked her? For what? I don't understand.
VINA: Now, there's a fine choice for intelligent offspring.
COLT: Offspring, as in children?
ONE: Offspring as in he's Adam. Is that it?
VINA: You're no better choice. They'd have more luck crossing him with a computer.
ONE: Well, shall we do a little time computation? There was a Vina listed on that expedition as an adult crewman. Now, adding eighteen years to your age then.
VINA: It's not fair. I did what you asked.
MAGISTRATE: Since you resist the present specimen, you now have a selection.
PIKE: I'll break out of this zoo somehow and get to you. Is your blood red like ours? I'm going to find out.
MAGISTRATE: Each of the two new specimens has qualities in her favor. The female you call Number One has the superior mind and would produce highly intelligent children. Although she seems to lack emotion, this is largely a pretense. She has often has fantasies involving you.
PIKE: All I want to do is get my hands on you. Can you read these thoughts? Images of hate, killing?
MAGISTRATE: The other new arrival has considered you unreachable but now is realizing this has changed. The factors in her favor are youth and strength, plus unusually strong female drives.
PIKE: You'll find my thoughts more interesting. Thoughts so primitive you can't understand. Emotions so ugly
MAGISTRATE: Wrong thinking is punishable. Right thinking will be as quickly rewarded. You will find it an effective combination.
ONE: Captain.
PIKE: No. No, don't help me. I have to concentrate. They can't read through hate.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Address intercraft.
GARISON: Open, sir.
SPOCK: This is the acting captain speaking. We have no choice now but to consider the safety of this vessel and the remainder of the crew. We're leaving. All decks prepare for hyperdrive. Time warp factor.
TYLER: Mister Spock, the ship's controls have gone dead.
SPOCK: Engine room!
GARISON: Open.
SPOCK: Mister Spock here. Switch to rockets. We're blasting out.
PITCAIRN (voiceover): All systems are out, bridge. We've got nothing.
TYLER: There's nothing. Every system aboard is fading out.

[Pike's cell]
PIKE: Now you hold still, or I'll break your neck.
VINA: Don't hurt them. They don't mean to be evil.
PIKE: I've had some samples of how good they are.
PIKE: You stop this illusion, or I'll twist your head off. All right, now you try one more illusion, you try anything at all, and I'll break your neck.
MAGISTRATE: Your ship. Release me or we'll destroy it. {Bridge]
SPOCK: Nothing. But for the batteries we'd lose gravitation and oxygen.
TYLER: The computers!
TYLER: I can't shut it off. It's running through our library. Tapes, micro-records, everything. It doesn't make sense.
SPOCK: Could be we've waited too long. It's collecting all the information stored in this fly. They've decided to swat us.

[Pike's cell]
VINA: He's not bluffing, Captain. With illusion they can make your crew work the wrong controls or push any button it takes to destroy your ship.
PIKE: I'm going to gamble you're too intelligent to kill for no reason at all.
PIKE: On the other hand, I've got a reason. I'm willing to bet you've created an illusion this laser is empty. I think it just blasted a hole in that window and you're keep us from seeing it. You want me to test my theory out on your head?
COLT: Captain.

[Planet surface]
PIKE: Make contact, Number One.
ONE: They kept us from seeing this, too. We cut through and never knew it. Captain.
MAGISTRATE: As you see, your attempt to escape accomplished nothing.
PIKE: I want to contact our ship.
MAGISTRATE: You are now on the surface where we wished you to be. With the female of your choice, you will now begin carefully guided lives.
PIKE: And start by burying you?
MAGISTRATE: That is your choice. To help you reclaim the planet's surface, our zoological gardens will furnish a variety of plant life.
PIKE: Look, I'll make a deal with you. You and your life for the lives of these two Earth women.
MAGISTRATE: Since our lifespan is many times yours, we have time to evolve you into a society trained to serve as artisans, technicians
PIKE: Do you understand what I'm saying? You give me proof that our ship is all right, send these two back, and I'll stay with Vina.
ONE: It's wrong to create a whole race of humans to live as slaves.
MAGISTRATE: Is this a deception? Do you intend to destroy yourselves?
VINA: What is that?
PIKE: The weapon is building up an overload. A force chamber explosion. You still have time to get underground. Well, go on! Just to show you how primitive humans are, Talosian, you go with her.
VINA: If, if you all think it's this important, then I can't go either. I suppose if they have one human being, they might try again.
PIKE: Wait.
TALOSIAN: Their method of storing records is crude and consumed much time. Are you prepared to assimilate it?
MAGISTRATE: We had not believed this possible. The customs and history of your race show a unique hatred of captivity. Even when it's pleasant and benevolent, you prefer death. This makes you too violent and dangerous a species for our needs.
VINA: He means that they can't use you. You're free to go back to the ship.
PIKE: And that's it? No apologies? You captured one of us, threatened all of us.
TALOSIAN: Your unsuitability has condemned the Talosian race to eventual death. Is this not sufficient?
MAGISTRATE: No other specimen has shown your adaptability. You were our last hope.
PIKE: But wouldn't some form of trade, mutual co-operation?
MAGISTRATE: Your race would learn our power of illusion and destroy itself too.
ONE: Captain, we have transporter control now.
PIKE: Let's get back to the ship.
VINA: I can't. I can't go with you.

[Transporter room]
PITCAIRN: Sir, it just came on. We can't shut the power off.
SPOCK: Mister Spock here.
TYLER (voiceover): All power has come on, Mister Spock. The helm is answering to control.
GARISON: The captain?

[Planet surface]
VINA: You see why I can't go with you.
MAGISTRATE: This is the female's true appearance.
VINA: They found me in the wreckage, dying. A lump of flesh. They rebuilt me. Everything works. But they had never seen a human. They had no guide for putting me back together.
MAGISTRATE: It was necessary to convince you her desire to stay is an honest one.
PIKE: You'll give her back her illusion of beauty?
MAGISTRATE: And more.
MAGISTRATE: She has an illusion and you have reality. May you find your way as pleasant.

[Transporter room]
PITCAIRN: Mister Spock, the system is coming on again.
COLT: What's happened to Vina?
ONE: Isn't she coming with us?
PIKE: No. No, and I agreed with her reasons.

[Bridge]
BOYCE: Hold on a minute.
PIKE: Oh, I feel fine, just fine.
BOYCE: You look a hundred percent better.
PIKE: You recommended a rest, a change of pace, didn't you? I've even been home. Does that make you happy?
PIKE: Yeoman.
COLT: Yes, sir.
PIKE: I thought I told you that when I'm on the bridge I
PIKE: Oh. Oh yes. The reports. Thank you.
COLT: Sir, I was wondering. Just curious. Who would have been Eve?
ONE: Yeoman! You've delivered your report.
COLT: Yes, ma'am. Yes, sir.
TYLER: Eve, sir? Yes, sir.
BOYCE: Eve as in Adam?
PIKE: As in all ship's doctors are dirty old men. What are we running here, a cadet ship, Number One? Are we ready or not?
ONE: All decks show ready, sir.
PIKE: Engage.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Star date 1312.4. The impossible has happened. From directly ahead, we're picking up a recorded distress signal, the call letters of a vessel which has been missing for over two centuries. Did another Earth ship once probe out of the galaxy as we intend to do? What happened to it out there? Is this some warning they've left behind?

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Your move, Captain.
KIRK: We should have intercepted by now. The Bridge said they'd call.
SPOCK: I'll have you checkmated your next move.
KIRK: Have I ever mentioned you play a very irritating game of chess, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Irritating? Ah, yes. One of your Earth emotions.
KIRK: Certain you don't know what irritation is?
SPOCK: The fact one of my ancestors married a human female
KIRK: Terrible having bad blood like that. KELSO [on monitor] Bridge to briefing lounge. Object is now within tractor beam range.
KIRK: No visual contact, Mister Kelso?
KELSO (screen): No, sir. It's too small to be a vessel. It only reads about one meter in diameter.
SPOCK: Not large enough even for a lifeboat. KELSO [on monitor] Small enough to bring it aboard, sir, if you want to risk it.
KIRK: Lock onto it, Mister Kelso.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Materializer ready, sir.
KIRK: Bring it aboard. Old-style ship recorder that could be ejected when something threatened the ship.
SPOCK: More like destroyed the ship in this case. Look at it. Burnt, pitted.
KIRK: Let's hope its tapes are intact. We'll feed it through Mister Spock's computer.
SCOTT: Yes, sir. It's begun transmitting, sir.
KIRK: Flash the Bridge. Put all decks on the alert.

[Turbolift]
MITCHELL: Hold it, Jim.
KIRK: Getting into shape?
MITCHELL: Yeah, well I figured you weren't on the Bridge. Kelso's voice sounded a little nervous. Well, uh, you finish the game?
SPOCK: He played most illogically. His next move should have been the rook.

[Bridge]
MITCHELL: Yore relieved, Mister Alden.
ALDEN: Acknowledged, Mister Mitchell.
KIRK: Screen on.
KELSO: Screen on, sir. Approaching galaxy edge, sir.
KIRK: Neutralize warp, Mister Mitchell. Hold this position.
MITCHELL: Neutralize warp, sir.
KIRK: Address intercraft.
MITCHELL: Intercraft open.
KIRK: This is the Captain speaking. The object we encountered is a ship's disaster recorder, apparently ejected from the S.S. Valiant two hundred years ago.
SPOCK: The tapes are burnt out. Trying the memory banks.
KIRK: We hope to learn from the recorder what the Valiant was doing here and what destroyed the vessel. We'll move out into our probe as soon as we have those answers. All decks, stand by.
MITCHELL: Department heads, sir. You wanted everybody on the Bridge before we left the galaxy. Jones.
SMITH: The name's Smith, sir.
SULU: Astro sciences standing by, Captain.
SCOTT: Engineering division ready, as always.
PIPER: Life sciences ready, sir. This is Doctor Dehner, who joined the ship at the Aldebaran colony.
DEHNER: Psychiatry, Captain. My assignment is to study crew reaction in emergency conditions.
SPOCK: Getting something from the recorder now.
DEHNER: lf there was an emergency, I'd be interested in how that crew reacted, too.
MITCHELL: Improving the breed, Doctor? Is that your line?
DEHNER: I heard that's more your specialty, Commander, line included.
MITCHELL: Walking freezer unit.
SPOCK: Decoding memory banks. I'll try to interpolate. The Valiant had encountered a magnetic space storm and was being swept in this direction.
KIRK: The old impulse engines weren't strong enough.
SPOCK: Swept past this point, about a half light year out of the galaxy, they were thrown clear, turned, and headed back into the galaxy here. I'm not getting it all. The tapes are pretty badly burned. Sounds like the ship had encountered some unknown force. Now, orders, counter orders, repeated urgent requests for information from the ship's computer records for anything concerning ESP in human beings.
KIRK: Extrasensory perception. Doctor Dehner, how are you on ESP?
DEHNER: In tests I've taken, my ESP rated rather high.
KIRK: I'm asking what you know about ESP.
DEHNER: It is a fact that some people can sense future happenings, read the backs of playing cards and so on, but the esper capacity is always quite limited.
SPOCK: Severe damage. Seven crewmen dead. No, make that six. One crewman seemed to have recovered. That's when they became interested in extrasensory perception. More than interested, almost frantic about it. No, this must be garbled. I get something about destruct. I must have read it wrong. It sounded like the captain giving an order to destroy his own ship.
KIRK: Comments?
PIPER: The only fact we have for sure is that the S.S. Valiant was destroyed.
KIRK: That's probably the best argument to continue the probe. Other vessels will be heading out here someday and they'll have to know what they'll be facing. We're leaving the galaxy, Mister Mitchell. Ahead, warp factor one.
SPOCK: Force field of some kind.
MITCHELL: We're coming up on it fast.
SPOCK: Sensor beam on.
KELSO: Sensor beam on, sir.
SPOCK: Deflectors full intensity.
KELSO: Deflectors full intensity.
SPOCK: Deflectors say there's something there, sensors say there isn't. Density negative. Radiation negative. Energy negative.
KELSO: Whatever it is, contact in twelve seconds.
KIRK: Gravitation on automatic. Emergency stations. All decks on fire alert. Neutralize controls. Kelso, put it on manual. Any radiation? Anything?
SPOCK: Negative!
KIRK: Helmsmen, take us out of here. Helmsmen! Lateral power! Take damage reports.
SPOCK: Damage control reports, all stations!
CREWMAN (voiceover): Gravity control switching to batteries.
DEHNER: Something hit me, like an electrical charge.
PIPER: He's alive. Appears to be in shock.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering deck three, can you give damage report?
CREWMAN 2 (voiceover): Sensor beams. Full power on the deflectors.
SPOCK: Main engines are out, sir. We're on emergency power cells. Casualties, nine dead.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Gravity is down to point eight.
CREWMAN 2 (voiceover): All decks, this is Bridge Engineering. Due to emergency conditions.
KIRK: Gary. Gary, are you all right?
MITCHELL: I'm a little weak for some reason, Jim, but I feel all right now.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Star date 1312.9. Ship's condition, heading back on impulse power only. Main engines burned out. The ship's space warp ability gone. Earth bases which were only days away are now years in the distance. Our overriding question now is what destroyed the Valiant? They lived through the barrier, just as we have. What happened to them after that?

[Bridge]
DEHNER: Autopsy report, sir. Each case showed damage to the body's neural circuit. An area of the brain was burned out.
KIRK: And you, are you feeling all right?
DEHNER: Yes. Mitchell, too, except for his eyes. We're trying to find a reason for that now, and why, out of our whole crew, only certain people were affected.
SPOCK: I think we've found that answer, Doctor.
KIRK: You mentioned that tests show you have a high degree of extrasensory perception. So do the records of the others. Gary Mitchell has the highest esper rating of all.
DEHNER: lf you're suggesting there's anything dangerous
SPOCK: Before the Valiant was destroyed, its captain was frantically searching for ESP information on his crew.
DEHNER: Espers are simply people with flashes of insight.
SPOCK: Are there not also those who seem to see through solid objects, cause fires to start spontaneously?
DEHNER: There's nothing about it that could possibly make a person dangerous.
SPOCK: Doctor Dehner is speaking of normal ESP power.
DEHNER: Perhaps you know of another kind?
KIRK: Do we know for sure, Doctor, that there isn't another kind?

[Sickbay]
MITCHELL: Hello, Jim. Hey, you look worried.
KIRK: I've been worried about you ever since that night on Deneb IV.
MITCHELL: Yeah, she was nova, that one. Not nearly as many after-effects this time, except for the eyes. They kind of stare back at me when I'm shaving.
KIRK: Do you feel any different?
MITCHELL: Well, in a way, I feel better than I've ever felt before in my life. Actually seems to have done me some good.
KIRK: How?
MITCHELL: Well, I'm getting a chance to read some of that longhair stuff you like. Hey man, I remember you back at the Academy. A stack of books with legs. The first thing I ever heard from an upperclassman was, watch out for Lieutenant Kirk. In his class, you either think or sink.
KIRK: I wasn't that bad, was I?
MITCHELL: If I hadn't aimed that little blonde lab technician at you
KIRK: You what? You planned that?
MITCHELL: Well, you wanted me to think, didn't you? I outlined her whole campaign for her.
KIRK: I almost married her!
MITCHELL: Better be good to me. I'm getting even better ideas here.
KIRK: You? Spinoza?
MITCHELL: Once you get into him, he's rather simple though. Childish, almost. I don't agree with him at all.
KIRK: Go on.
MITCHELL: Hey, I'm trying to tell you I feel fine. When do I go back on duty?
KIRK: I'm going to ask Doctor Dehner to keep you under observation for a while.
MITCHELL: With almost a hundred women on board, you can do better than that, friend Captain.
KIRK: Consider it a challenge.
MITCHELL: That doesn't seem very friendly. Didn't I say you'd better be good to me?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: He's reading even faster now than just a few moments ago. Is that Gary Mitchell, the one you used to know?
KIRK: Put a twenty four hour watch on the Sickbay. Fullest possible range of examinations and tests.

[Sickbay]
PIPER: Perfect, perfect. I've never had a patient like you, Gary. Even the healthiest are generally off on some reading. leaves)
DEHNER: I know you don't particularly like me, Mister Mitchell, but since I am assigned here, can we make the best of it?
MITCHELL: I've got nothing against you, Doctor.
DEHNER: Nor against the walking freezer unit?
MITCHELL: Well, I, sorry about that.
DEHNER: Women professionals do tend to overcompensate. Now let's talk about you. How do you feel?
MITCHELL: You know, everybody, everybody seems worried that I don't have some kind of fever or something. Maybe if we could just change these dials . Now back to normal, I think.
DEHNER: How did you do that?
MITCHELL: I'm not sure, I, I just thought of making it happen, and it does. It's, hey, er hey watch this, Doc.
DEHNER: Stop it. Stop it! You were dead for almost twenty two seconds. There were no readings at all.
MITCHELL: Yeah. Oh, boy. You, you know, Doc, there have been other things too, like going halfway through the ship's library in hardly a day. Yeah. Oh, what's happening to me?
DEHNER: Do you remember everything you read that quickly?
MITCHELL: Yeah.
DEHNER: On any tape?
MITCHELL: Sure. Yeah.
DEHNER: Try this one.
MITCHELL: Yeah.
DEHNER: Page three eighty seven.
MITCHELL: My love has wings. Slender, feathered things with grace in upswept curve and tapered tip. The Nightingale Woman, written by Phineas Tarbolde on the Canopius planet back in 1996. It's funny you picked that one, Doctor.
DEHNER: Why?
MITCHELL: That's one of the most passionate love sonnets of the past couple of centuries. How do you feel, Doctor?
DEHNER: What?
MITCHELL: How do you feel?
DEHNER: I just fell. Nothing happened. MITCHELL No? Are you sure? Are you sure?
KELSO: Er, I was on my coffee break. I thought I'd check up on MITCHELL Yeah, that's okay Lee, come on in. Don't let the light in my eyes bother you, pal. It's all for our, our good-looking lady doctor here.
KELSO: Yeah. Sure.
MITCHELL: So, er, so, how go the repairs?
KELSO: Well, the main engines are gone, unless we can find some way to re-energize them.
MITCHELL: You'd better check the starboard impulse packs. Those points have about decayed to lead.
KELSO: Oh, yeah, sure, Mitch.
MITCHELL: I'm not joking, Lee! You activate those packs, and you'll blow the whole impulse deck.
KELSO: I'll, er, I'll get on it right away. I just wanted to stop by and make sure you were okay. See you later.
MITCHELL: He's a fool. A fool. He'd seen those points and he hadn't noticed their condition.
DEHNER: How do you know?
MITCHELL: The image of what he'd seen was still in his mind.

[Briefing room]
KELSO: Well, it didn't make any sense that he'd know, but naturally, I checked out the circuit anyway. I don't know how, but he was right. This point is burned out exactly the way he described it.
DEHNER: Sorry I'm late. I became so interested in observing Gary, Mister Mitchell.
SPOCK: Our subject is not Gary Mitchell. Our concern is, rather, what he is mutating into.
DEHNER: I know those from your planet aren't suppose to have feelings like we do, Mister Spock, but to talk that way about a man you've worked next to for years is worse than
KIRK: That's enough, Doctor.
DEHNER: I don't think so. I understand you least of all. Gary told me that you've been friends since he joined the service, that you asked for him aboard your first command.
KIRK: It is my duty, whether pleasant or unpleasant, to listen to the reports, observations, even speculations, on any subject that might affect the safety of this vessel, and it's my science officer's duty to see I'm provided with that. Go ahead, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Have you noted evidence of unusual powers?
DEHNER: He can control certain autonomic reflexes. He reads very fast, retains more than most of us might consider usual.
KIRK: Mister Scott, would you repeat what you just told us?
SCOTT: About an hour ago, the Bridge controls started going crazy. Levers shifting by themselves, buttons being pushed, instrument readings changing.
SPOCK: And on my monitor screen I could see Mitchell smiling each time it happened, as if this ship and crew were almost a toy for his amusement.
KIRK: Are they right, Doctor? Has he shown abilities of such magnitude?
DEHNER: I saw some such indications.
KIRK: And you didn't think it worth mentioning?
DEHNER: No one's been hurt, have they? Don't you understand? A mutated superior man could also be a wonderful thing. The forerunner of a new and better kind of human being.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.
SULU: If you want the mathematics of this, Mitchell's ability is increasing geometrically. That is, like having a penny, doubling it every day. In a month, you'll be a millionaire.
SPOCK: In less time than that, he will have attained powers we can't understand and can't cope with. Soon we'll be not only useless to him, but actually an annoyance.
KIRK: There'll be no diskussion of this with the crew. Thank you.
SPOCK: We'll never reach an Earth base with him aboard, Jim. You heard the mathematics of it. In a month he'll have as much in common with us as we'd have with a ship full of white mice.
KIRK: I need a recommendation, Spock, not vague warnings.
SPOCK: Recommendation one. There's a planet a few light days away from here. Delta Vega. It has a lithium cracking station. We may be able to adapt some of its power packs to our engines.
KIRK: And if we can't? We'll be trapped in orbit there. We haven't enough power to blast back out.
SPOCK: It is the only possible way to get Mitchell off this ship.
KIRK: If you mean strand Mitchell there, I won't do it. That station is fully automated. There's not a soul on the whole planet. Even the ore ships call only once every twenty years.
SPOCK: Then you have one other choice. Kill Mitchell while you still can.
KIRK: Get out of here.
SPOCK: It is your only other choice, assuming you make it while you still have time.
KIRK: Will you try for one moment to feel? At least act like you've got a heart. We're talking about Gary.
SPOCK: The captain of the Valiant probably felt the same way, and he waited too long to make his decision. I think we've both guessed that.
KIRK: Set course for Delta Vega. Star date 1313.1. We're now approaching Delta Vega. Course set for a standard orbit. This planet, completely uninhabited, is slightly smaller than Earth. Desolate, but rich in crystal and minerals. Kelso's task, transport down with a repair party, try to regenerate the main engines, save the ship. Our task, transport down a man I've known for fifteen years, and if we're successful, maroon him there.

[Sickbay]
MITCHELL: I'm thirsty. It's like a man who has been blind all of his life, suddenly being given sight. Sometimes I feel there's nothing I couldn't do, in time. Some people think that makes me a monster, don't they Jim.
KIRK: Are you reading all our thoughts, Gary?
MITCHELL: I can sense mainly worry in you, Jim. Safety of your ship.
KIRK: What would you do in my place?
MITCHELL: Probably just what Mister Spock is thinking now. Kill me while you can.
DEHNER: Stop it, Gary!
MITCHELL: I also know we're orbiting Delta Vega, Jim. I can't let you force me down there. I may not want to leave this ship, not yet. I may want another place. I'm not sure yet just what kind of a world I can use.
DEHNER: Use?
MITCHELL: I don't understand it all yet, but if I keep growing, getting stronger, why, the things I could do, like, like maybe a god could do.
KIRK: I want him unconscious for a while.

[Transporter room]
MITCHELL: You fools! Soon I'll squash you like insects.
KIRK: Energize.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Can you do it, Lee?
KELSO: Maybe, if we can bypass the fuel bins without blowing ourselves up.
KIRK: Take him.
DEHNER: There's not a soul on this planet but us?
KIRK: Nobody but us chickens, Doctor.

[Delta Vega Control room]
ALDEN: I think I've got the 203-R set, Lee.
KELSO: Good, Alden. Transport it up with you, will you?
ALDEN: Okay.
KIRK: The fuel bins, Lee. Could they be detonated from here?
KELSO: A destruct switch? I guess I could wire one up right there.
KIRK: Do it.
SPOCK: He's regaining consciousness.

[Delta Vega Brig]
KIRK: Doctor Piper. I want only one medical officer here at any one time. The other will monitor him on the dispensary screen.
DEHNER: I'd like to stay now, try to talk to him.
MITCHELL: My friend James Kirk. remember those rodent things on Dimorus? The poisoned darts they threw? I took one meant for you.
KIRK: And almost died. I remember.
MITCHELL: So why be afraid of me now?
KIRK: You've been testing your ability to take over the Enterprise. In the transporter room, you said something about us seeming like insects by comparison, squashing us if we got in your way.
MITCHELL: I was drugged then.
KIRK: Yes. In the Sickbay, you said if you were in my place, you'd kill a mutant like yourself.
MITCHELL: Why don't you kill me then? Mister Spock is right and you're a fool if you can't see it.
DEHNER: You don't mean that, Gary.
MITCHELL: Man cannot survive if a race of true espers is born. In time you'll understand that.
KIRK: Gary. Gary, don't!
MITCHELL: Jim.
KIRK: His eyes went back to normal.
SPOCK: Fighting the force field drained his strength, for a while at least. He could be handled now.
MITCHELL: I'll just keep getting stronger. You know that, don't you.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: It fits like a glove, Captain.

[Delta Vega Control room]
SCOTT (voiceover): Oh, did Mister Spock get the phaser rifle we sent down?
KIRK: I didn't order any Affirmative. Landing party out.
SPOCK: He tried to get through the force field again. His eyes changed back faster. He didn't become as weak.
KIRK: Doctor Dehner feels he isn't that dangerous. What makes you right and a trained psychiatrist wrong?
SPOCK: Because she feels. I don't. All I know is logic. In my opinion we'll be lucky if we can repair this ship and get away in time.
KELSO: Direct to the power bins. From here you could blow up this whole valley.
KIRK: If Mitchell gets out, at your diskretion, Lee, if sitting here, you think you're the last chance, I want you to hit that button.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Star date 1313.3. Note commendations on Lieutenant Kelso and the engineering staff. In orbit above us, the engines of the Enterprise are almost fully regenerated. Balance of the landing party is being transported back up. Mitchell, whatever he's become, keeps changing, growing stronger by the minute.

[Delta Vega Brig]
DEHNER: He's been like that for hours now.
KIRK: Have Doctor Piper meet us in the control room with Kelso. We'll all transport up together.
SPOCK: If he should try to stop us
KIRK: Kelso will be on the destruct button until the last minute. I think he knows that.
DEHNER: I'm staying behind with him.

[Delta Vega Control room]
KELSO: Fission chamber three checks out. The station seems to be running fine.
SCOTT (voiceover): You're a talented thief, Kelso. Everything you sent up seems to be fitting in place.
KELSO: I'm kind of proud of the job we've done. We're going to be ready to transport up

[Delta Vega Brig]
KIRK: You're leaving with the ship, Doctor.
DEHNER: He is not evil.
KIRK: I gave you an order, Doctor.
MITCHELL: You should have killed me while you could, James. Command and compassion is a fool's mixture.
PIPER: It hit me, too, whatever it was. Kelso is dead, strangled. At least Spock's alive.
KIRK: Doctor Dehner?
PIPER: She went with Mitchell.
KIRK: Don't give him a pill until after I'm gone. It's my fault Mitchell got as far as he did. Did you see their direction?
PIPER: Yes, there was some morning light. They were headed across the valley, to the left of the pointed peaks. There's flatlands beyond.
KIRK: When Mister Spock recovers, you'll both transport up immediately to the Enterprise.
PIPER: But Captain
KIRK: If you have not received a signal from me within twelve hours, you'll proceed at maximum warp to the nearest Earth base with my recommendation that this entire planet be subjected to a lethal concentration of neutron radiation. No protest on this, Mark. That's an order.

[Planet surface]
DEHNER: It would take almost a miracle to survive here.
MITCHELL: Then I shall make one. Behold. You'll soon share this feeling, Elizabeth. To be like God, to have the power to make the world anything you want it to be.
DEHNER: What's wrong?
MITCHELL: A visitor. A very foolish man. You'll enjoy being a god, Elizabeth. Blasphemy? No. Let there be food. Kaferian apples. Whenever we visited that planet, I always favored these. Can you hear me, James? You cannot see me. I'm not there. You follow the right path, James. You'll come to me soon.
DEHNER: I can see him in my mind, too.
MITCHELL: Go to him, Elizabeth, talk to him. Now that you're changing I want you to see just how unimportant they are.
DEHNER: Yes, it just took a little longer for it to happen to me.
KIRK: You must help me Before it goes too far.
DEHNER: What he's doing is right for him and me.
KIRK: And for humanity? You're still human
DEHNER: No, I
KIRK: At least partly, you are, or you wouldn't be here talking to me.
DEHNER: Earth is really unimportant. Before long, we'll be where it would have taken mankind millions of years of learning to reach.
KIRK: What will Mitchell learn in getting there? Will he know what to do with his power? Will he acquire the wisdom?
DEHNER: Please go back while you still can.
KIRK: Did you hear him joke about compassion? Above all else, a god needs compassion. Mitchell! Elizabeth.
DEHNER: What do you know about gods?
KIRK: Then let's talk about humans, about our frailties. As powerful as he gets, he'll have all that inside him.
DEHNER: Go back.
KIRK: You were a psychiatrist once. You know the ugly, savage things we all keep buried, that none of us dare expose. But he'll dare. Who's to stop him? He doesn't need to care. Be a psychiatrist for one minute longer. What do you see happening to him? What's your prognosis, Doctor?
DEHNER: He's coming.
KIRK: Then watch him. Hang on to being a human for one minute longer.
MITCHELL: I'm disappointed in you, Elizabeth. I've been contemplating the death of an old friend. He deserves a decent burial, at least.
DEHNER: Stop it, Gary.
MITCHELL: Morals are for men, not gods.
KIRK: A god, but still driven by human frailty. Do you like what you see?
MITCHELL: Time to pray, Captain. Pray to me.
KIRK: To you? Not to both of you?
MITCHELL: Pray that you die easily.
KIRK: There'll only be one of you in the end. One jealous god. if all this makes a god, or is it making you something else?
MITCHELL: Your last chance, Kirk.
KIRK: Do you like what you see? Absolute power corrupting absolutely.
DEHNER: Hurry. You haven't much time.
KIRK: Gary, forgive me.
MITCHELL: For a moment, James, but your moment is fading.
DEHNER: I'm sorry. You can't know what it's like to be almost a god.
KIRK: Enterprise from Captain Kirk, come in.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Star date 1313.8. Add to official losses, Doctor Elizabeth Dehner. Be it noted she gave her life in performance of her duty. Lieutenant Commander Gary Mitchell, same notation. I want his service record to end that way. He didn't ask for what happened to him.
SPOCK: I felt for him, too.
KIRK: I believe there's some hope for you after all, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: One degree to overlap. Stand by to photograph. Now.
BAILEY: Three days of this now, sir. Other ships must have made star maps of some of this.
SPOCK: Negative, Lieutenant. We are the first to reach this far.
SULU: Sir, contact with an object. It's moving toward us. No visual contact yet.
SPOCK: Deflectors, full intensity.
SULU: It's coming at light speed.
BAILEY: Collision course.
SPOCK: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Object changing direction, too, sir. Keeps coming at us.
UHURA: I'm getting no signal from it, sir.
BAILEY: Still collision course. Deflectors aren't stopping it.
SPOCK: Sound alarm.
SULU: It's slowing down, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Countermand alarm. All engines full stop.
BAILEY: Visual contact.
SPOCK: Ahead slow. Steer a course around it, Mister Sulu.
BAILEY: It's blocking the way!
SPOCK: Quite unnecessary to raise your voice, Mister Bailey. All engines stop. Sound the alert.
SULU: Bridge to all decks. Condition alert. All decks, condition alert. Captain Kirk to the Bridge. Captain's Log, star date 1512.2. On our third day of star mapping, an unexplained cubical object blocked our vessel's path. On the Bridge, Mister Spock immediately ordered general alert. My location, Sickbay. Quarterly physical check.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Just a few seconds more.
KIRK: Just a few seconds more.
MCCOY: That's a boy. Keep it up. Work up a little sweat, it'll will do you good.
KIRK: You're killing me. You're killing me.
MCCOY: Stop. Winded?
KIRK: You'd be the last one I'd tell. Kirk here. What's going on?
SPOCK (screen): Have a look at this, Captain.
KIRK: What's that?
SPOCK (voiceover): Undetermined. Whatever it is, it's blocking our way. When we move, it moves as well.
KIRK: A vessel of some kind?
SPOCK (voiceover): Negative. More some type of device.
KIRK: I'll be right up. You could see the alarm lights flashing from there, McCoy. Why didn't you tell me?
MCCOY: Finally finished a physical on you, didn't I. What am I, a doctor or a moon shuttle conductor? If I jumped every time a light came on around here, I'd end up talking to myself.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): All decks alert. All decks alert.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge. Captain to Bridge.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
KIRK: Any changes?
SPOCK (voiceover): Negative. Whatever it is, it seems to just want to hold us here.
KIRK: Any indication of danger from it?
SPOCK (voiceover): Negative.
KIRK: I'll change first then. Captain out.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: All decks have reported green, Mister Bailey.
BAILEY: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: And when the Captain arrives he will expect a full report on
BAILEY: The cube's range and position. I'll have it by then. Raising my voice back there doesn't mean I was scared or couldn't do my job. It means I happen to have a human thing called an adrenaline gland.
SPOCK: It does sound most inconvenient, however. Have you considered having it removed?
BAILEY: Very funny.
SULU: You try to cross brains with Spock, he'll cut you to pieces every time.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Captain to Bridge.
SPOCK (screen): Spock here.
KIRK: Any signs of life?
SPOCK (screen): Negative.
KIRK: Have you tried all hailing frequencies?
SPOCK (screen): Affirmative. No answer from the cube.
KIRK: Have the department heads meet me on the Bridge.
SPOCK (screen): Already standing by.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Reporting, sir. Sensors show it is solid, but its composition is unknown to us.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies still open, sir. I get no message from it.
KIRK: Navigation.
BAILEY: Distance from us, fifteen hundred ninety three meters, position constant.
SULU: Each of its edges measures one hundred seven meters. Mass, a little under eleven thousand metric tons.
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT: Motive power? Beats me what makes it go.
KIRK: I'll buy speculation.
SCOTT: I'd sell it if I had any. That's a solid cube. How something like that can sense us coming, block us, move when we move, well it beats me. That's my report.
KIRK: Life sciences.
MCCOY: Same report.
BAILEY: Sir, we going to just let it hold us here? We've got phaser weapons. I vote we blast it.
KIRK: I'll keep that in mind, Mister Bailey, when this becomes a democracy. Captain's Log, star date 1513.8. Star maps reveal no indication of habitable planets nearby. Origin and purpose of the cube still unknown. We've been here, held motionless, for eighteen hours.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Anything further, gentlemen?
SPOCK: I believe it adds up to either one of two possibilities. First, a space buoy of some kind.
KIRK: Second?
SPOCK: Flypaper.
KIRK: And you don't recommend sticking around.
SPOCK: Negative. It would make us appear too weak.
KIRK: It's time for action, gentlemen. Mister Bailey
BAILEY: Bridge to Phaser Gun Crew
KIRK: Countermand. I'll select what kind of action.
BAILEY: I'm sorry, sir. I thought you meant
KIRK: Are you explaining Mister Bailey? I haven't requested an explanation. Now, as I was about to say, Navigator, plot us a spiral course away from the cube.
BAILEY: Yes, sir. We'll try pulling away from it.
SULU: Yes, sir. Helmsman to Engine Room, stand by. All decks alert. We're going to try pulling away.

[Bridge]
BAILEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
KIRK: Engage, Mister Sulu. Quarter speed.
SULU: Point two five, sir. Still blocking us, sir.
KIRK: Let's see if it'll give way. Ahead half speed.
SULU: Point five oh, sir.
SPOCK: Radiation from the short end of the spectrum increasing.
KIRK: All stop. Hold position.
BAILEY: It's still coming toward us. Range, one hundred ninety meters.
SPOCK: Radiation increasing.
KIRK: Power astern, half speed.
SULU: Half speed.
SPOCK: Radiation nearing the tolerance level.
BAILEY: Still coming, gaining on us.
KIRK: Engines astern, full speed.
SULU: Full speed.
BAILEY: Range one hundred twenty five meters now.
KIRK: Helm, give us warp speed.
SULU: Warp one, sir.
SPOCK: Radiation at the tolerance level.
SULU: Warp two, sir. Speed is now warp three.
SPOCK: Radiation passing the tolerance level, entering lethal zone.
BAILEY: Range fifty one meters and still closing, sir.
KIRK: Phaser Crew stand ready.
BAILEY: Phaser Crew reports ready, sir.
SPOCK: Growing. We can take only a few more seconds of this.
KIRK: Lock phasers on target. Mister Bailey, lock phasers.
BAILEY: Phasers locked on target, sir. At point-blank range and closing.
KIRK: Fire main phasers. Captain's Log, star date 1514.0. The cube has been destroyed. Ship's damage minor but my next decision, major. Probe on ahead or turn back.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Nothing, Captain. No contacts, no objects in any direction.
KIRK: Care to speculate on what we'll find if we go on ahead?
SPOCK: Speculate? No. Logically, we'll diskover the intelligence which sent out the cube.
KIRK: Intelligence different from ours or superior?
SPOCK: Probably both, and if you're asking the logical decision to make
KIRK: No, I'm not. The mission of the Enterprise is to seek out and contact alien life.
SPOCK: Has it occurred to you that there's a certain inefficiency in constantly questioning me on things you've already made up your mind about?
KIRK: It gives me emotional security. Navigator, set a course ahead.
BAILEY: Plotted. Laid in, sir.
KIRK: Engage.
BAILEY: Warp one, sir.
KIRK: Mister Bailey, phaser crews were sluggish. You were slow in locking them into your directional beam. Helmsman, engineering decks could have been faster, too. Program a series of simulated attacks and evasion maneuvers. Keep repeating the exercise until we're proficient, gentlemen.
SULU: Yes, sir.
BAILEY: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Your timing is lousy, Jim.

[Turbolift]
MCCOY: Your men are tired.
KIRK: Captain's quarters. Aren't you the one who always says a little suffering is good for the soul?
MCCOY: I never say that.
BAILEY (voiceover): This is the Bridge. Prepare for simulated attack.
MCCOY: I'm especially worried about Bailey. Navigator's position's rough enough for a seasoned man.
KIRK: I think he'll cut it.
MCCOY: Oh? How so sure? Because you spotted something you liked in him, something familiar, like yourself say about, oh, eleven years ago?
BAILEY (voiceover): On the double, deck five! Give me a green light.
KIRK: Why, Doctor, you've been reading your textbooks again?
MCCOY: I don't need textbooks to know you could've promoted him too fast. Listen to that voice.
BAILEY (voiceover): Condition alert. Battle stations.

[Kirk's quarters]
BAILEY (voiceover): Engineering, deck five, report. Phaser crews, come on, let's get with it. Phaser station two, where's your green light?
KIRK: What's next? They're not machines, Jim?
MCCOY: Well, they're not. After what they've been through they really should
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, I've heard you say that man is ultimately superior to any mechanical device.
MCCOY: No, I never say that, either.
KIRK: I could've sworn I heard you say that. Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Exercise rating, Captain. Ninety four percent.
KIRK: Let's try for one hundred, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Agreed.
MCCOY: What are you going to do with that six percent when they give it to you, Jim?
KIRK: I'm going to take it, and I'm going to
RAND: Excuse me, sir. It's past time you had something to eat, sir.
KIRK: What the devil is this? Green leaves?
RAND: It's dietary salad, sir. Doctor McCoy ordered your diet card changed. I thought you knew.
MCCOY: Your weight was up a couple of pounds, remember?
KIRK: Will you stop hovering over me, Yeoman?
RAND: Well, I'll change it if you don't like it, sir.
KIRK: Bring some for the doctor, too.
MCCOY: No, no. No, I never eat until the crew eats.
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman.
RAND: You're welcome, sir.
BAILEY (voiceover): This is the Bridge. All decks prepare to better reaction time on second simulated attack.
KIRK: When I find the headquarters genius that assigned me a female yeoman
MCCOY: What's the matter, Jim. Don't you trust yourself?
KIRK: I've already got a female to worry about. Her name's the Enterprise.
BAILEY (voiceover): Engineering decks alert. Phaser crews, let's SULU [OC] Countermand that. All decks to battle stations. This is not a drill. Repeat, this is not a drill.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): We're picking up an object, sir. Much larger, coming toward us.
KIRK: Coming.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Exceptionally strong contact. Not visual yet. Distant spectrograph. Metallic, similar to cube. Much greater energy reading.
SULU: There, sir.
KIRK: Half speed. Prepare for evasive action.
SULU: Reducing to warp two, sir.
SPOCK: Tractor beam, Captain. Something's grabbed us, hard.
SULU: Engines overloading, sir.
KIRK: All engines stop.
SULU: All engines stopped, sir.
KIRK: Phaser crews stand ready.
BAILEY: Bridge to phaser crews, stand ready.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Forward phaser, will comply. All weapons at operational ready.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: What's its mass, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Reading goes off my scale, Captain. Must be a mile in diameter.
BAILEY: Over five thousand meters away, and it still fills the screen.
KIRK: Reduce image. Let me see all of it.
SULU: Magnification two five, sir. Magnification one eight point five, sir.
KIRK: Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: This is the United Earth ship Enterprise. We convey greetings and await your reply. What is it, Mister Bailey?
BAILEY: A message coming over my navigation beam.
KIRK: Pick it up.
UHURA: Switching, sir.
BALOK (voiceover): And trespassed into our star systems. This is Balok, Commander of the flagship Fesarius of the First Federation. Your vessel, obviously the product of a primitive and savage civilisation, having ignored a warning buoy and having then destroyed it, has demonstrated your intention is not peaceful. We are now considering the disposition of your ship and the life aboard.
KIRK: Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: This is the Captain of the Enterprise speaking. The warning nature of your space buoy was unknown to us. Our vessel was blocked. When we attempted to disengage
SPOCK: Captain, we're being invaded by exceptionally strong sensor probes everywhere. Our electrical systems, our engines.
BALOK (voiceover): No further communication will be accepted. If there is the slightest hostile move, your vessel will be destroyed immediately.
SPOCK: They're shutting off some of our systems, Captain. Brilliant. Extremely sophisticated in their methods.
KIRK: Does the recorder marker have this on its tapes?
SPOCK: Enough to warn other Earth ships.
KIRK: Mister Bailey, dispatch recorder marker. Mister Bailey?
BAILEY: Recorder marker dispatched, sir.
SPOCK: Marker on course. Heading back the way we
BALOK (voiceover): Your recorder marker has been destroyed. You have been examined. Your ship must be destroyed. We make assumption you have a deity or deities or some such beliefs which comfort you. We therefore grant you ten Earth time periods known as minutes to make preparations.
SPOCK: Might be interesting to see what they look like if I can locate where that voice is coming from.
MCCOY: Balok's message. It was heard all over the ship.
KIRK: Captain to crew. Those of you who have served for long on this vessel have encountered alien lifeforms. You know the greatest danger facing us is ourselves, an irrational fear of the unknown. But there's no such thing as the unknown, only things temporarily hidden, temporarily not understood. In most cases we have found that intelligence capable of a civilisation is capable of understanding peaceful gestures. Surely a lifeform advanced enough for space travel is advanced enough to eventually understand our motives. All decks stand by. Captain out. Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: This is the Captain of the USS Enterprise. We came seeking friendship but we have no wish to trespass. To demonstrate our goodwill, our vessel will now return the way it came. We Lay in a course ahead, Mister Bailey.
BAILEY: What? A course?
SULU: Plotted and laid in, sir.
KIRK: Engage, warp factor one.
SULU: Warp factor. There's no response.
KIRK: Switch to impulse.
SULU: All engine systems show dead, and weapon systems.
SPOCK: Switching to screen. I believe I can get something visual.
BALOK (screen): You are wasting time and effort. There is no escape. You have eight Earth minutes left.
SPOCK: I was curious to see how they appeared.
KIRK: Yes, of course you were.
BAILEY: I don't understand this. Spock's wasting time. Everybody else just sitting around. Somebody's got to do something.
MCCOY: Easy, Bailey.
BAILEY: What do they want from us? Let's find out what they want us to do.
KIRK: They want us to lose our heads.
BAILEY: We've only got eight minutes left.
SULU: Seven minutes and forty five seconds.
BAILEY: He's doing a countdown!
MCCOY: Practically end of watch.
BAILEY: What, are you all out of your minds? End of watch? It's the end of everything. What are you, robots? Wound-up toy soldiers? Don't you know when you're dying? Watch and regulations and orders What do they mean?
KIRK: Bailey, you're relieved! Escort him to his quarters, Doctor.
MCCOY: Let's go.
KIRK: Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: This is the Captain of the Enterprise speaking. It is the custom of Earth people to try and avoid misunderstanding whenever possible. We destroyed your space buoy as a simple act of self-preservation. When we attempted to move away from it, it emitted radiation harmful to our species. If you've examined our ship and its tapes, you know this to be true.
BALOK (screen): You now have seven minutes left.
SULU: Four minutes, thirty seconds.
SCOTT: You have an annoying fascination for timepieces, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Jim.
BALOK (voiceover): Four minutes.
KIRK: What's the matter with them out there? They must know we mean them no harm.
SPOCK: They're certainly aware by now that we're totally incapable of it.
KIRK: There must be something to do, something I've overlooked.
SPOCK: In chess, when one is outmatched, the game is over. Checkmate.
KIRK: Is that your best recommendation?
SPOCK: I'm s, I regret that I can find no other logical alternative.
MCCOY: Assuming we get out of this, Captain
KIRK: Nobody's given up yet.
MCCOY: Well, then about Bailey. Let me enter it in my medical records as simple fatigue.
KIRK: That's my decision, Doctor.
MCCOY: And your mistake. You overworked him, pushed him, expected too much from him.
KIRK: I'm ordering you to drop it. I have no time for you, your theories, your quaint philosophies.
MCCOY: I intend to challenge your actions in my records. I'll state that I warned you about Bailey's condition. Now that's no bluff.
KIRK: Any time you can bluff me, Doctor.
BALOK (voiceover): Three minutes.
KIRK: All right, Doctor. Let's hope we have time to argue about it. Not chess, Mister Spock, poker. Do you know the game? Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: This is the Captain of the Enterprise. Our respect for other lifeforms requires that we give you this warning. One critical item of information that has never been incorporated into the memory banks of any Earth ship. Since the early years of space exploration, Earth vessels have had incorporated into them a substance known as corbomite. It is a material and a device which prevents attack on us. If any destructive energy touches our vessel, a reverse reaction of equal strength is created, destroying
BALOK (voiceover): You now have two minutes.
KIRK: Destroying the attacker! It may interest you to know that since the initial use of corbomite more than two of our centuries ago, no attacking vessel has survived the attempt. Death has little meaning to us. If it has none to you then attack us now. We grow annoyed at your foolishness.
SPOCK: However, it was well played. I regret not having learned more about this Balok. In some manner he was reminiscent of my father.
SCOTT: Then may heaven have helped your mother.
SPOCK: Quite the contrary. She considered herself a very fortunate Earth woman.
KIRK: Doc. Sorry.
MCCOY: For having other things on your mind? My fault. I don't how the devil you keep from punching me in the face.
SULU: One minute. I knew he would. If anyone's interested, thirty seconds.
BAILEY: Request permission to return to post, sir.
KIRK: Permission granted.
SULU: Eleven, ten seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
SPOCK: A very interesting game, this poker.
KIRK: It does have advantages over chess.
MCCOY: Love to teach it to you.
BALOK (voiceover): This is the Commander of the Fesarius.
KIRK: Here it comes. Is it raise or call?
BALOK (voiceover): The destruction of your vessel has been delayed. We will relent in your destruction only if we have proof of your corbomite device.
KIRK: Hold on that. Let him sweat for a change. Ship to ship.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies, sir.
KIRK: Request denied.
SPOCK: I have visual contact, Captain.
BALOK (screen): We will soon inform you of our decision regarding your vessel. And having permitted your primitive efforts to see my form, I trust it has pleased your curiosity. And now, another demonstration of our superiority.
MCCOY: I thought the power was off in the galley.
RAND: I used a hand phaser, and zap. Hot coffee.
SULU: Something's going on, Captain.
KIRK: It's a small ship.
SPOCK: About two thousand metric tons.
BALOK (voiceover): It has been decided that I will conduct you to a planet of the First Federation which is capable of sustaining your lifeform. There you will disembark and be interned. Your ship will be destroyed, of course.
SPOCK: Engine systems coming on, Captain.
BALOK (voiceover): Do not be deceived by the size of this pilot vessel. It has an equal potential to destroy your vessel.
SPOCK: Tractor beam again.
BALOK (voiceover): So that you may sustain your gravity and atmosphere, your systems are now open. Escape is impossible since you are being taken under our power to your destination. Any move to escape or destroy this ship will result in the instant destruction of the Enterprise and everyone aboard.
SULU: We're being towed, sir. Captain's Log, star date 1514.1. The Enterprise is in tow. To this point, no resistance has been offered. My plan? A show of resignation. Balok's tractor beam has to be a heavy drain of power on his small ship. Question. Will he grow careless?

[Bridge]
BAILEY: Captain, he's pulling out a little ahead of us.
SPOCK: He's sneaked power down a bit.
SULU: Our speed is down to point six four of light.
KIRK: I want a right angled course. Shear away from him no matter which way he turns.
BAILEY: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Maximum acceleration when I give the word.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Engage.
SULU: It's a strain, Captain. Engines are overloading.
KIRK: More power.
SPOCK: We're superheating. Intermix temperature, seven thousand four hundred degrees. Seven five, seven six, eight thousand degrees.
KIRK: Shear away, Mister Bailey.
SPOCK: Two thousand degrees above maximum. Eight four, eight five, eight six. She'll blow soon!
KIRK: Now, Mister Sulu. Impulse power two.
BAILEY: We're breaking free, sir.
KIRK: All engines stop.
SULU: All engines stopped, sir.
SCOTT: Engines need work badly, Captain. Can you hold it here a few hours?
SPOCK: That may not be wise. He got a signal through to the mother ship.
KIRK: Then we're not home yet.
UHURA: A signal, Captain. It's very weak. It's Balok. It's a distress signal to the Fesarius. His engines are out. His life-sustaining system isn't operating. The message is repeating, sir.
KIRK: Any reply?
UHURA: Negative, sir. The signal is growing weak. Sir, I doubt if the mother ship could have heard it.
KIRK: Plot a course for it, Mister Bailey.
SPOCK: For it, Captain?
KIRK: Dead ahead. This is the Captain speaking. First Federation vessel is in distress. We're preparing to board it. There are lives at stake. By our standards, alien life but lives nevertheless. Captain out.
BAILEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott, ready the transporter room.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, bring us to within one hundred meters. Ahead slow.
SULU: Ahead slow, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, don't you think
KIRK: What's the mission of this vessel, Doctor? To seek out and contact alien life, and an opportunity to demonstrate what our high-sounding words mean. Any questions? I'll take two men with me. Doctor McCoy to examine and treat the aliens if necessary, and you, Mister Bailey.
BAILEY: Sir?
KIRK: The face of the unknown. I think I owe you a look at it.
BAILEY: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, request permission to
KIRK: Denied. If I'm wrong, if it's a trap, I want you here.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Transporter ready?
SCOTT: Well, yes, sir, but it's risky. We're locked on what appears to be a main deck.
KIRK: Air sample?
SCOTT: Breathable. In fact, a slightly higher oxygen content than our own. Communicator, phaser weapon.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty. Ready, Doctor?
MCCOY: No, but you won't let that stop you.
SCOTT: Bend low, gentlemen. It reads pretty cramped over there. Ready to transport.
KIRK: Energize.

[Balok's ship]
KIRK: It's a dummy. A puppet of some kind.
BALOK: I'm Balok. Welcome aboard.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk.
BALOK: And McCoy and Bailey. Sit. Be comfortable. Go ahead, be seated. We must drink. This is tranya. I hope you relish it as much as I.
KIRK: Commander Balok.
BALOK: I know, I know, a thousand questions. But first, the tranya. Gentlemen. Ahh.
KIRK: Commander, that puppet.
BALOK: My alter ego, so to speak. In your culture, he would be Mister Hyde to my Jekyll. You must admit he's effective. You would never have been frightened by me. And I thought my distress signal quite clever. It was a pleasure testing you.
BAILEY: Testing us?
KIRK: I see.
BALOK: I had to diskover your real intentions.
KIRK: But you probed our memory banks.
BALOK: Your records could have been a deception on your part.
MCCOY: And your crew?
BALOK: I have no crew, Doctor. I run everything, this entire complex, from this small ship. But I miss company, conversation. Even an alien would be welcome. Perhaps one of your men for some period of time. An exchange of information, cultures.
KIRK: Yes. Both our cultures would benefit. Do you know where we can find a volunteer, Mister Bailey?
BAILEY: Me, sir. I'd like to volunteer.
BALOK: Ah. You represent Earth's best, then.
BAILEY: No, sir, I'm not. I'll make plenty of mistakes.
KIRK: But you'd find out more about us that way, and I'd get a better officer in return.
BALOK: I see. We think much alike, Captain, you and I. Now, before I bring back the Fesarius, let me show you my vessel. It is not often I have this pleasure. Yes, we're very much alike, Captain. Both proud of our ships.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1329.8. The U.S.S. Enterprise in pursuit of an unidentified vessel.

[Bridge]
SULU: There he is, sir. Center screen. Still trying to run away from us, sir.
KIRK: Don't lose him, Mister Sulu.
SULU: No, sir.
KIRK: Earth ship, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Difficult to say, Captain. We're getting no registration beam from it.
SCOTT: If it is, he'll soon overload his engines.
SPOCK: Sir, he's pushing his engines too hard.
SULU: Changing course again. He knows we're after him all right.
KIRK: Stay with him, Mister Sulu. Communication?
UHURA: I've tried all frequencies, sir. He refuses to answer. Unless he's not receiving us.
KIRK: He's receiving us alright.
SPOCK: Approaching an asteroid belt, Captain. Schiller rating three five.
KIRK: Deflectors on, Mister Farrell.
SULU: He's seen the asteroids too, sir.
KIRK: Stay with him. He'll try to lose us in them.
SULU: If one hits him.
SPOCK: Sensor reading on the vessel. I make it out as a small class J cargo ship, and his engines are super-heating.
KIRK: Try to warn him. If he loses power now
FARRELL: There go his engines, sir.
SULU: He's drifting into the asteroid belt, Captain.
FARRELL: He's had it, unless we put our deflector screen around him.
SCOTT: Captain, if we try, we'll overload our own engines. He's too far away.
KIRK: Cover him with our deflector screen, Mister Farrell. Scotty, Spock, stand by in the transporter room.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
FARRELL: We're protecting him, sir. We won't be able to hold it long.
SULU: We're overloading, Captain. Engine temperatures climbing.
CREWMAN (voiceover): This is the Engine room. Temperatures are passing the danger line. FARRELL Our deflector screen's weakening, sir. We can't protect them much longer.
SULU: That was one of our lithium crystal circuits, sir.
KIRK: Bridge to transporter room. If you don't start beaming that crew over soon
SCOTT (voiceover): They're not answering our signal. There's nothing to lock onto. SULU Another circuit, sir.
UHURA: I'm getting a distress signal call from them, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, we're getting a distress signal.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: We're locked onto something, Captain.
MUDD: Meaning no ingratitude, gentlemen, but just where is it I find meself?
MCCOY: You're aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise.
MUDD: It's really a darn beautiful ship, isn't it? Really a beautiful ship. Oh, the name, gentlemen, is Walsh, Captain Leo Walsh.
SPOCK: How many more in your crew?
MUDD: Just a few more.
SCOTT: Your vessel's breaking up, man. If we don't get them over here right now
MUDD: We couldn't be sure you was a friendly vessel, now could we. Ah, but the three will be in position about by now.

[Bridge]
SULU: Another lithium circuit. Now supplementing with battery power, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, how many of them did you get aboard?
SCOTT (voiceover): Only one, sir, but we've locked onto three more.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: What's wrong?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. With those three lithium crystals gone
SPOCK: It'll take longer on battery power.
MCCOY: Never trusted this.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: There she goes.
SULU: Asteroid hit him dead center.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Bridge to transporter room. Their vessel has been hit by an asteroid. It's gone. Did you get the crew off?
SCOTT: Not yet, sir, but we've hooked onto something.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to transporter room. Report.
MUDD: It's all right, darlings. We're in good hands.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Bridge to transporter room.
FARRELL: We're clearing the asteroid belt now, Captain.
KIRK: Deflector screen down, Mister Farrell. Save the power.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Captain to transporter room. Are you reading me or not, Mister Scott? Bridge to transporter room. How many did we get off?
SCOTT: Oh, er, four in all, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): If that captain can walk, I want him in my cabin immediately. Correction,

[Bridge]
KIRK: I want him there whether he can walk or not. Kirk out.

[Transporter room]
MUDD: That fellow sounded a mite upset, didn't he?
MCCOY: Yes. Yes, they are.
SPOCK: Curious. You're certain this was everyone aboard, Mister Walsh? No other crewmen?
MUDD: Oh, no, that's everyone, all right, but so far as the ladies actually being the crew
SPOCK: You can explain that to the Captain.
MCCOY: Amen to that, Scotty.

[Corridor]
MUDD: Ah, sure, these starships are really something marvelous, but men will always be men no matter where they are. Eh, mister? You'll never take that out of them.

[Turbolift]
SPOCK: Deck twelve.
MUDD: You're part Vulcanian, aren't you. Ah well then, a pretty face doesn't affect you at all, does it. That is, unless you want it to. You can save it, girls. This type can turn himself off from any emotion.
EVE: I apologize for what he said, sir. He's used to buying and selling people.
MUDD: I'll handle the conversation, darling.

[Captain's quarters]
KIRK: Come.
SPOCK: The Commander of the transport to see you, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Now, if you don't mind telling
EVE: Hello.
KIRK: And the ladies? Is this your crew, Captain?
MUDD: Well, no, Captain. This is me cargo.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1329.1. We've taken aboard from unregistered transport vessel its captain and, and three unusual females. These women have a mysterious magnetic effect on the male members of my crew, including myself. Explanation unknown at present.

[Captain's quarters]
MUDD: Well, how the devil am I supposed to know this is a starship, Captain? Here I am with a cargo of young lovelies. A strange ship comes up alongside. Well. naturally I did my best to evade you. And starship Captain or no, you exceeded your authority when you drove me and mine into a shower of asteroids.
KIRK: Your name, please.
MUDD: Walsh. Leo Walsh. You destroyed me ship, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Walsh, I'm convening a ship's hearing on your actions. Mister Spock will supply you with any legal information you may need for your defense.
MUDD: You're a hard-nosed one, Captain.
KIRK: And you're a liar, Mister Walsh. I think we both understand each other. Security! Escort Mister Walsh to his quarters. Confine him there.

[Bridge]
SULU: You're on duty, Johnny-o. Back to reality.
FARRELL: You can feel their eyes when they look at you, like something grabbing hold of you. Did you notice that?
SULU: I noticed. How I noticed. Come on, Johnny.
SCOTT: We've got trouble, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I'm well aware of that, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: One lithium crystal left, and that with a hairline split at the base.
SPOCK: Better rig a by-pass circuit.
SCOTT: Can't. We blew the whole converter assembly.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SPOCK: Needed on the bridge, Captain.

[Briefing room]
WOMEN: Harry! Where were you?
MUDD: Shh! Calm down now, darlings. Would you mind waiting outside?
SECURITY: Sorry, sir.
MUDD: Well, now, answer every question they put to you. Don't lie. Well, you've no need to, have you, and don't submit to a med. That is, being so healthy, they've no need for a medical exam, have they.
RUTH: What if they ask about
MUDD: They won't. Have you no place to go lads?
MAGDA: They'll notice we're different.
MUDD: No, no, no, they won't. Just let Leo take all the hard questions. Now don't be panicking, loves. We'll get to
EVE: Get where? We don't have a ship and we're headed the wrong way, Harry.
NUDD: Leo. Leo Walsh is me name, darling. Don't forget that. So lovely. Lovely, aren't they? If they only think lovely thoughts, if they smile, they'll come out right some which way, won't they? My personal guarantee on that.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: The entire ship's power is feeding through one lithium crystal.
KIRK: Well, switch to by-pass circuits.
SCOTT: We burned them all out when we super-heated. That jackass Walsh not only wrecked his vessel, but in saving his skin
KIRK: If it makes you feel better, Engineer, that's one jackass we're going to see skinned.
SCOTT: But it's frustrating. Almost a million gross tons of vessel depending on a hunk of crystal the size of my fist.
SPOCK: And that crystal won't hold up, not pulling all our power through it.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: There's a lithium mining operation on Rigel 12. High-grade ore, I've heard.
KIRK: Location and distance.
SPOCK: Mister Farrell has the course. Less than two day's travel.
KIRK: Make for Rigel 12, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Rigel 12, Mister Farrell. You have the course.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1329.2. On board the U.S.S. Enterprise, a ship's hearing is being convened against the transport vessel's captain. I'm becoming concerned about the almost-hypnotic effect produced by the women.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: This hearing is convened. Stardate 1329.2, on board starship U.S.S. Enterprise. Formal hearings against transport captain Leo Walsh. Start computer.
SPOCK: State your name for the record.
MUDD: Leo Francis Walsh.
COMPUTER: Incorrect.
SPOCK: Your correct name.
MUDD: Gentlemen, surely you're not going to take the word of a soulless mechanical device over that of a real flesh and blood man.
SPOCK: State your correct name for the record.
MUDD: Harry Mudd.
COMPUTER: Incorrect.
MUDD: Harcourt Fenton Mudd.
SPOCK: Any past offenses, Mister Mudd?
MUDD: Of course not. Gentlemen, I'm simply an honest businessman.
COMPUTER: Incorrect.
MUDD: Blast that tin-plated pot.
COMPUTER: Full data coming on screen.
RUTH: If it can read our minds, too.
MUDD: It can't, darling. It can't. Just what's on the record.
COMPUTER: Offense record. Smuggling. Sentence suspended. Transport of stolen goods. Purchase of space vessel with counterfeit currency. Sentences, psychiatric treatment, effectiveness disputed.
KIRK: Mister Mudd, you're charged with galaxy travel without a flight plan, without an identification beam, and failure to answer a starship's signal, thus effecting a menace to navigation.
MUDD: What? My tiny ship in this immense galaxy a menace to navigation?
KIRK: You're also charged with operation of a vessel without a master's license.
MUDD: Untrue! I have a master's ticket.
COMPUTER: Incorrect. Master's license revoked Stardate 1116.4.
MUDD: All right. Well, very simply, Leo Walsh, who was to be my captain on this trip, passed away suddenly. Well, I had no choice but to take out me ship me own self. I assumed Leo's name out of courtesy to him. In memoriam, as it were. A fine, fine man, alas, gone to his reward.
KIRK: Destination and purpose of journey?
MUDD: Planet Ophiuchus 3. Wiving settlers.
KIRK: Come again, Mister Mudd. You do what?
MUDD: I recruit wives for settlers, a difficult but satisfying task.
KIRK: Data on witnesses.
COMPUTER: No data.
KIRK: Computer, go to sensor probe. Any unusual readings?
COMPUTER: No decipherable reading on females. However, unusual reading on male board members. Detecting high respiration patterns, perspiration rate up, heartbeat rapid, blood pressure higher than normal.
KIRK: Er, that's sufficient. Strike that from the record.
MUDD: You see, gentlemen, just as I told you. Three lovely ladies destined for frontier planets to be the companions of lonely men, to supply that warmth of a human touch that's so desperately needed. A wife, a home, a family. Gentlemen, I look upon this work as a sacred public trust. I've devoted me whole life to it.
COMPUTER: Incorrect.
MUDD: Well, I'm about to start devoting my entire life to it.
KIRK: Did these ladies come voluntarily?
MUDD: Well, of course! Now, for example, Ruthie here comes from a pelagic planet, sea ranchers. Magda there from the helium experimental station.
EVE: It's the same story for all of us, Captain. No men. Mine was a farm planet with automated machines for company and two brothers to cook for, mend their clothes, canal mud a foot thick on their boots every time they walked in.
MUDD: Fine, Evie. Fine.
EVE: It's not fine! We've got men willing to be our husbands waiting for us, and you're taking us in the opposite direction! Staring at us Iike we were Saturnius harem girls or something.
MUDD: That's enough, Evie.
KIRK: The only charges are against Mister Mudd. Illegal operation of a vessel. Do you have any defense to offer?
MUDD: Only heaven's own truth, which I've just given you.
KIRK: The hearing is closed. Mister Mudd to be handed over to the legal authorities at our earliest opportunity.
EVE: And what about us? What happens to us? Help us, please. All of us.
KIRK: Miss McHuron, if you don't mind
SCOTT: Our last crystal, sir. It's gone.
SULU: Captain Kirk, engineering section reports our entire life-support system is now on batteries.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Miss McHuron, would you mind. Mister Spock, will you contact the miners on Rigel 12? Notify them that we'll need the lithium crystals immediately upon arrival.
MUDD: Oh, you beautiful galaxy! Oh, that heavenly universe! Well, girls, lithium miners. Don't you understand? Lonely, isolated, overworked, rich lithium miners! Girls, do you still want husbands, hmm? Evie, you won't be satisfied with a mere ship's captain. I'll get you a man who can buy you a whole planet. Maggie, you're going to be a countess. Ruth, I'll make you a duchess. And I, I'll be running this starship. Captain James Kirk, the next orders you're taking will be given by Harcourt Fenton Mudd!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log-- Stardate 1330.1. Position, fourteen hours out of Rigel 12. We're on auxiliary impulse engines. Fuel low, barely sufficient to achieve orbit over the planet. Lithium replacements are now imperative. The effect of Mudd's women on my crew continues to grow, still totally unexplained. Harry Mudd is confined to his quarters under guard.

[Sickbay]
RUTH: May I come in?
MCCOY: Why, yes, please do. By all means. Connors, are you finished?
RUTH: I was wondering what this place looked like. It's fascinating.
MCCOY: Would, Would you walk past my panel again, please?
RUTH: Your what?
MCCOY: My medical scanner.
RUTH: Oh, why? You're not giving me an examination, are you?
MCCOY: Oh no. I wouldn't trust my, my judgment, believe me. Just walk by, please. It's not supposed to do that.
RUTH: I wondered, will you be examining the miners on Rigel 12?
MCCOY: Yes, if they need it.
RUTH: You haven't asked yet? Are they in good health and all?
MCCOY: What? Oh, yes, they're in excellent health, all three of them.
RUTH: Oh. Three.
MCCOY: Are you wearing some unusual kind of perfume or something radioactive, my dear?
RUTH: No. I'm just me.
MCCOY: I wonder what makes it do that.

[Kirk's quarters]
EVE: Captain? I hope you don't mind.
KIRK: As a matter of fact, Miss McHuron, I do.
EVE: I was trying to take a walk, and I just, I just had to run in someplace. You see, all your men were looking at me, following me with their eyes.
KIRK: Yes. I'll have to talk to them about that. They, er, they don't do that ordinarily, Miss McHuron, but somehow, in your case, and the ladies with you, its, er
EVE: They're probably just lonely. I can understand loneliness.
KIRK: Yes. Yes, er, now, Miss McHuron
EVE: I, I suppose you understand it even more, having to run a huge ship like this with so much responsibility every minute and having to be so careful with all your men looking up to you.
KIRK: Well, it probably appears more difficult than it is.
EVE: Hmm! I read once that a commander has to act like a paragon of virtue. I never met a paragon.
KIRK: Neither have I.
EVE: Well, of course not. No one is. But some people try to pretend. Do you, Captain?
KIRK: Miss McHuron, I don't
EVE: Oh, no! Oh, I just can't do it. I don't care what Harry Mudd says. I do like you, but I just can't go through with it. I hate this whole thing!

[Mudds's quarters]
MUDD: Just three? You're sure?
RUTH: Yes. The miners are healthy and fairly young.
MUDD: Later, dear, later. Magda, did you get to your communications man?
MAGDA: The head miner is named Ben Childress. The others are Gossett and Benton.
MUDD: And they've been there?
RUTH: Almost three years now, alone!
MUDD: Perfect. Perfect. Three of them and three lovely ladies has Harry Mudd. And lithium crystals, my dear, are worth three hundred times their weight in diamonds, thousands of times their weight in gold.
RUTH: But they'll be down there, and we'll be up here, circling a hundred miles above them.
MAGDA: And there's a guard outside your door, Harry. You can't get out of your cabin.
MUDD: No, my dears. After one more job for you, it won't be Harry Mudd that's trapped. It will be a gentleman named James T
EVE: I don't like you, and I'm not very happy with myself, either.
MUDD: Well, I'm not really surprised. I've seen you noticing the Captain.
EVE: We're supposed to notice them! Oh, oh Harry, I don't feel very good. I think it must be near the time.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I asked for a preorbital course, Mister Farrell.
FARRELL: Preorbital course locked in, sir.
KIRK: That's the last time I'm giving an order twice, gentlemen. We're down to battery power, and we're low on that.
SCOTT: It'll get us to Rigel 12, sir, but it'll be a shaky orbit.
KIRK: Just hang us in long enough to get six crystals, Scotty. That's all we need.
SCOTT: I'll get you there.
KIRK: Ridiculous. What are we running here. Did you examine them? Did you examine Eve?
MCCOY: She refused.
KIRK: Well, come on, you're the doctor. What is it? Is it that we're tired, and they're beautiful? They are incredibly beautiful.
MCCOY: Are they, Jim? Are they actually more lovely, pound for pound, measurement for measurement, than any other women you've known? Or is it that they just, well, act beautiful. No. Strike that, strike that.
KIRK: What are they?
MCCOY: You mean are they alien illusions? That sort of thing?
KIRK: I asked you first.
MCCOY: No, an alien smart enough to pull this could also keep my medical scanner from going beep!
KIRK: I don't follow you.
MCCOY: I don't either.

[Mudd's quarters]
MAGDA: Top space frequency of three nine.
MUDD: Rigel 12. Rigel 12.
CHILDRESS (voiceover): This is Rigel 12. Come in, Enterprise.
MUDD: Well, this isn't exactly the Enterprise. My name is Harry Mudd. To whom have I the pleasure of speaking, sir?

[Bridge]
SULU: Power curve still dropping, Captain.
FARRELL: We'll make orbit, sir. A temporary one.
KIRK: Lay in. Computer?
SPOCK: We can sustain this orbit for three days, seven hours.
KIRK: More than enough time. Communications, have a representative of the Rigel 12 miners meet us here to diskuss our needs. Beam him up first pass over their camp.
UHURA: Yes, sir.

[Mudd's quarters]
RUTH: Look what's happening. Look at my face.
MAGDA: Give us the pills.
RUTH: What if someone sees us like this?
EVE: You'll never find them, Harry, and if you do find them you know what they are. A cheat. If you care for someone, really care
MUDD: For whom, Evie? For Kirk? You'll find out that Ship's captains are already married, girl, to their vessels. You'd find out the first time you came between him and the ship. You'll see.
RUTH: I'm going back to what I was. Ugly.
MAGDA: I can't stand myself like this.
RUTH: Why did you hide them, Harry? Don't you trust us?
MUDD: I didn't hide them, girl. I put them in a safe place in case I was searched.
MADGA: Find the pill, Harry!
MUDD: Mattress! Yes, here! Go on, Eve. Take it. It's not a cheat. It's a miracle for some man who can appreciate it and who needs it.

[Kirk's quarters]
SPOCK: Even burned and cracked, they're beautiful. Destroying them was a shame.
KIRK: Not at all, Mister Spock. The choice was burning this lithium crystal or the destruction of another man's ship. Come.
SECURITY: Sir. Mining Chief Childress and Mister Gossett.
KIRK: Good. Show them in. I'm James Kirk, captain of the Enterprise. This is my science officer Mister Spock.
CHILDRESS: Let's get right to business. You want lithium crystals and we've got them.
KIRK: Fine. I'm authorized to pay an equitable price.
CHILDRESS: We're not sure they're for sale, Captain. We might prefer a swap.
KIRK: What did you have in mind?
CHILDRESS: Mudd's women.
GOSSETT: If we like them. We'd like to have a look at them first of course.
CHILDRESS: Right. Trot them out, Captain. Oh, and Harry Mudd. Either way, I've agreed to have him released. Charges dropped.
KIRK: Is there anything else?
CHILDRESS: You've got no choice, Kirk. You beam a landing party down, and you won't find one blessed crystal.
KIRK: No deal. You're a long way out in space, gentlemen. You'll need medical help, cargo runs, starship protection. You want to consider those facts too?
MUDD: Come along, ladies, come along. You must be Ben Childress. Come on now, girls, come on.
RUTH: And you must be Herm Gossett.
GOSSETT: Yes, I reckon I am.
CHILDRESS: One thing I'll say for you, Mudd, you're not a liar. Ladies, you are welcome.
KIRK: It's still no deal.
SPOCK: Conserving batteries, sir. Half power.
MUDD: I'm told they have only three days of orbit left before they start spiraling in. I do hate to see you suffering such a situation, Captain, but truth is truth, and the sad fact is you will deal. Sooner or later, you'll have to.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Transporting down to surface of planet Rigel 12 to acquire replacement lithium crystals. Expect further difficulty from miners.

[Miner's camp]
KIRK: All right, Childress, you've won. Now I'll take the lithium crystals.
CHILDRESS: When I have the time, Kirk.
KIRK: Childress.
CHILDRESS: We're busy, Mister Kirk.
SPOCK: We don't have the time to spare, Captain.
KIRK: You got a better idea?
CHILDRESS: Blows like that all the time. You can get lost a dozen feet from your doorstep. The wind comes up sudden. Magnetic storm. That means the wind will really rip soon.
MAGDA: Dance with me.
CHILDRESS: Would you like to dance?
EVE: No, I No. I'm sorry, I guess it must be the dust.
CHILDRESS: That's the way it is on Rigel all the time.
GOSSETT: Hey.
BENTON: Go away.
GOSSETT: I'm cutting in.
BENTON: Not on me.
CHILDRESS: What's the matter with you?
EVE: Why don't you run a raffle and the loser gets me?
CHILDRESS: You can't go out there. You'll get killed.
KIRK: Just have those crystals here when I get back.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Eve! Eve!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Have transported aboard the Enterprise to implement search with infrared scanners and sensing system. Magnetic storms on the planet's surface are cutting down speed and efficiency of our equipment. Search now in progress for three hours, eighteen minutes.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: Traverse parallel three and four.
SULU: Checking, but not getting much.
SPOCK: The storm is ionizing the atmosphere, Captain. Getting difficult to probe through it.
SCOTT: Captain, this is draining our batteries further. If we only had those crystals.
KIRK: But we don't! I didn't get any. I should have found a way. Satisfied, Mister Scott?
UHURA: Losing communications with the miners, sir. Magnetic storm seems worse.
KIRK: Has Childress reported in yet?
UHURA: No, sir. He and the girl are still missing.
KIRK: Sorry, Scotty. How much power do we have left?
SCOTT: About five hours, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Have expended all but forty three minutes of power. Ship's condition, critical. Search now in progress seven hours, thirty one minutes. Magnetic storms are easing.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Infrared reading. Check traverse three, grid zero four zero.
FARRELL: About eleven miles, bearing one two one from the mining company.
SULU: That's Ben Childress' quarters.
SPOCK: There's a heat unit operating in there. It could be a cookstove.
KIRK: Have Mudd meet me in the transporter room.
SPOCK: Mudd?
KIRK: The name of this game.

[Childress' quarters]
CHILDRESS: I had things where I wanted them.
EVE: I ate some of your food, so I paid with some chores.
CHILDRESS: And I do my own cooking. I've not laid a hand on you. Remember that.
EVE: Oh, the sound of male ego. You travel halfway across the galaxy, and it's still the same song. There. You going to eat or talk?
CHILDRESS: I guess I'm supposed to sit, taste, and roll my eyes. Ooh, female cooking again. I've tasted better, by my own hand.
EVE: Well you're tasting some of it now. I couldn't scrape three layers of your leavings out of that pan.
CHILDRESS: You find me a well, some decent water, then talk.
EVE: Well, why don't you hang your pan out in the wind and let the sand blast it clean, or hadn't you thought about that?
CHILDRESS: It might work. That solitaire?
EVE: Double jack.
CHILDRESS: The red eight ought to go on the black nine.
EVE: Not in double jack.
CHILDRESS: You're not only plain as an old bucket, you're not even good company. What the devil happened to your looks, anyway?
EVE: I got tired of you. I slumped.
CHILDRESS: You heard what I said. You're homely! I've got enough in crystals already to buy queens by the gross! I didn't touch her.
MUDD: Thank heaven you found her.
CHILDRESS: She's been bubbling with gratitude ever since.
KIRK: Sit down. Tell him. Tell him, Harry.
MUDD: Ah. Yes, well.
KIRK: The Venus drugs, Harry.
CHILDRESS: Venus drug? I've heard of it but, it's not just one of those stories?
KIRK: Oh, it exists, illegally.
MUDD: Well, actually, you see, it's a relatively harmless drug.
EVE: Harmless!
MUDD: Well, what it does is give you more of whatever you have. Well, with men, it makes them more muscular. Women, rounder. Men, more aggressive. Women, more feminine, and
KIRK: He gave it to the women before you met them.
CHILDRESS: Does that mean the others? They really look like she does?
MUDD: Mister Childress, I
CHILDRESS: Is that what it means?
EVE: Yes, that's what it means!
CHILDRESS: What happened to my partners?
KIRK: They've left for their quarters during the storm, Childress. They're married. Subspace radio marriage. It was a fraud. They can get out of it.
MUDD: If they want to.
CHILDRESS: Why?
MUDD: You can't condemn the women.
CHILDRESS: I can! A man goes out and fights, almost dies. We all almost die. We should have, but we didn't. And now that we've got the good life in our hands, you bring us women for wives that
EVE: You don't want wives, you want this. This is what you want, Mister Childress. I hope you remember it and dream about it, because you can't have it. It's not real! Is this the kind of wife you want, Ben? Not someone to help you, not a wife to cook and sew and cry and need, but this kind. Selfish, vain, useless. Is this what you really want? All right, then. Here it is.
KIRK: Quite a woman, eh, Childress?
CHILDRESS: A fake, pumped up by a drug.
KIRK: By herself. She took no drug.
EVE: I swallowed it.
KIRK: Colored gelatin.
MUDD: Yes, they took away my drug and substituted that.
EVE: But that can't be.
KIRK: There's only one kind of woman.
MUDD: Or man, for that matter.
KIRK: You either believe in yourself, or you don't. All right Childress, I've gone as far with you as I intend to. I want those lithium crystals and I want them now. Enterprise, this is Kirk.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by. Do I beam down a search party?
CHILDRESS: No, the crystals are here, and you're welcome to them.
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Spock. We're coming aboard with the lithium crystals.
SPOCK (voiceover): How many coming, Captain?
CHILDRESS: Eve will stay, today at least. We, er, we want to talk.
KIRK: Eve?
EVE: You've got someone up there called the Enterprise.
KIRK: Two of us, Mister Spock. Come on, Mister Mudd.
MUDD: Don't you think you could possibly, by accident, arrange to leave me behind here? On this planet that would be punishment enough.
KIRK: I can't do that, Harry, but I will appear as a character witness at your trial. If you think that'll help.
MUDD: They'll throw away the key.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: That must have been quite a talk you made down there. Ever try considering the patent medicine business?
KIRK: Why should I work your side of the street?
SPOCK: I'm happy the affair is over. A most annoying emotional episode.
MCCOY: Smack right in the old heart. Oh, I'm sorry. In your case, it would be about here.
SPOCK: The fact that my internal arrangement differs from yours, Doctor, pleases me no end.
FARRELL: Course plotted and all systems in operation.
SULU: Engines engaged. Helm answering.
FARRELL: Out of orbit, sir.
KIRK: Ahead full.
SULU: Ahead full, sir.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: That should make a good specimen.
SULU: Temperature's starting to drop.
KIRK: Yeah. At night it gets down to a hundred and twenty degrees below zero.
SULU: That's nippy.
FISHER: Hey!
KIRK: What happened?
FISHER: I fell off that bank, sir. Cut my hand.
KIRK: Let's see it. Get back to the ship. Report to the Sickbay.
FISHER: Yes, sir. Geological Technician Fisher. Ready to beam up.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Right. Locked onto you. Energize. Coadjutor engagement.
WILSON: What happened?
FISHER: I took a flop.
WILSON: Onto what?
FISHER: I don't know. Some kind of yellow ore.
SCOTT: Magnetic. Decontaminate that uniform.
FISHER: Yes, sir.
SCOTT: That acted like a burnout.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain Kirk ready to beam up.
SCOTT: Just one moment, Captain. It checks out okay now. You better go get a synchronic meter so we can double-check.
WILSON: Yes sir.
SCOTT: All right, Captain. Locked onto you. Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, I'm all right. Just a little dizzy.
SCOTT: Let me give you a hand.
KIRK: I can't get through there. Nothing serious. Don't leave the transporter room unattended.
SCOTT: Wilson will be right back, sir. Captain's Log, stardate 1672.1. Specimen-gathering mission on planet Alpha 177. Unknown to any of us during this time, a duplicate of me, some strange alter ego, had been created by the transporter malfunction.

[Transporter room]
WILSON: Captain? Are you all right, sir? Can I give you a hand, sir? Captain?

[Corridor]
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to all decks. Section duty officers, check communication lines.
KIRK: Thank you.
SCOTT: It might profit you to let Doctor McCoy give you the once-over.
KIRK: All right, Engineer, I'll have my engines looked to.

[Kirk's quarters]
RAND: Ship's manifests, sir. I think they're in order now.
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman.
RAND: I've checked
KIRK: That's all.
RAND: Yes, sir.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: You picked a good day, Fisher. Business has been lousy. What'd you do, take a fall on purpose so you could get a little vacation?
KIRK: Saurian brandy. Back to duty status, Fisher. I have no sympathy for clumsiness.
FISHER: No, sir. The hand's much better, sir.
MCCOY: What can I do for you, Jim?
KIRK: I said, give me the brandy!

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Yeah.
SPOCK (voiceover): Mister Spock.
KIRK: Come in. Yes, Mister Spock, what is it?
SPOCK: Is there something I can do for you, Captain?
KIRK: Like what?
SPOCK: Well, Doctor McCoy seemed to think I should check on you.
KIRK: That's nice. Come on, Spock, I know that look. What is it?
SPOCK: Well, our good doctor said that you were acting like a wild man, demanded brandy.
KIRK: Our good doctor's been putting you on again.
SPOCK: Hmm. Well, in that case, if you'll excuse the intrusion Captain, I'll get back to my work.
KIRK: I'll tell him you were properly annoyed.
SPOCK: Captain.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: What is it, Scotty?
SCOTT: Transporter breakdown. Continue circuit testing. We beamed up this animal and, well, look for yourself. It's in this specimen case.
KIRK: Yes?
SCOTT: A few seconds after they sent this one up through the transporter, that duplicate appeared. Except it's not a duplicate, it's an opposite. Two of the same animal, but different. One gentle, this. One mean and fierce, that. Some kind of savage, ferocious opposite. Captain, we don't dare send Mister Sulu and the landing party up. If this should happen to a man.
KIRK: Oh, my.

[Rand's quarters]
RAND: Oh! Captain, you startled me. Is there something that you? Can I help you, Captain?
KIRK: Jim will do here, Janice.
RAND: Oh.
KIRK: You're too beautiful to ignore. Too much woman. We've both been pretending too long. Stop pretending. Let's stop pretending. Come here, Janice. Don't fight me. Don't fight me, Janice.
RAND: Captain!
KIRK: Just a minute, Janice. Just a minute!
RAND: Call Mister Spock! Call Mister Spock!

[Corridor]
FISHER: Geological Technician Fisher. Deck twelve, section

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Me? My yeoman said that? I've been resting here since you left me. Alone, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy reports that you demanded this brandy in Sickbay and left with it. I found this bottle in Yeoman Rand's quarters.
KIRK: Not true. I haven't been to the Sickbay. Let's find out what's going on.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
RAND: Then he kissed me and he said that we, that he was the Captain and he could order me. I didn't know what to do. When you mentioned the feelings we'd been hiding, and you started talking about us.
KIRK: Us?
RAND: Well, he is the captain. I couldn't just. You started hurting me. I had to fight you, and scratch your face.
KIRK: Yeoman, look at me. Look at me, look at my face. Are there any scratches?
RAND: I was sure I scratched you. I was frightened. Maybe
KIRK: Yeoman. I was in my room. It wasn't me.
RAND: Sir, Fisher saw you, too.
KIRK: Fisher saw?
RAND: If it hadn't been. I can understand. I don't want to get you into trouble. I wouldn't have even mentioned it!
KIRK: It wasn't me!
FISHER: It was you, sir.
KIRK: Do you know what you're saying?
FISHER: Yes, I know what I'm saying.
MCCOY: Back to that bed, bucko. Come on, let's go.
SPOCK: You can go now, Yeoman. There's only one logical answer. We have an impostor aboard. Captain's Log, stardate 1672.9. On the planet's surface, temperatures are beginning to drop, our landing party there in growing jeopardy. Due to the malfunction of the ship's transporter, an unexplained duplicate of myself definitely exists.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: How did all this happen?
SCOTT: I don't know sir, but when Fisher came up, his suit was covered with a soft yellow ore that had highly unusual properties. It may have caused an overload. Can't tell, not yet.
KIRK: Does the transporter work at all?
SCOTT: Yes sir, but we don't dare bring up the landing party. It might be duplicated like this animal.
KIRK: How long will it take you to find the trouble?
SCOTT: Can't say, sir.
KIRK: We just can't leave those four men down there. It's getting dark. They'll die. The surface temperature of that planet goes down to a hundred and twenty degrees below zero at night.
SCOTT: We're doing everything we can, sir.
KIRK: Yes, I know, Scotty.
SPOCK: About your double, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, er, yes, we'll have to find him. Search parties, Mister Spock. Organize search parties.
SPOCK: We can't take a chance on killing it. We have no previous experience, no way of knowing what would happen to you.
KIRK: Yes, that's right. We don't know, but the men have to be armed. The men are to be armed, with their phasers locked, I repeat, locked, on setting number one. There can't be any chance of him being killed. He's to be taken without. If the men are forced to fire, he can't be killed.
SPOCK: How shall we explain it to them, Captain? The search parties are to capture you?
KIRK: Tell them.
SPOCK: The search parties, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, I'll make an announcement to the entire crew, tell them what happened. It's a good crew. They deserve to know.
SPOCK: Captain, no disrespect intended, but you must surely realize you can't announce the full truth to the crew. You're the Captain of this ship. You haven't the right to be vulnerable in the eyes of the crew. You can't afford the luxury of being anything less than perfect. If you do, they lose faith, and you lose command.
KIRK: Yes, I do know that, Mister Spock. What I don't know is why I forgot that just now. Mister Spock, if you see me slipping again, your orders, your orders are to tell me.
SPOCK: Understood, Captain. Captain's Log, stardate 1673.1. Something has happened to me. Somehow, in being duplicated, I have lost my strength of will. Decisions are becoming more and more difficult.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): This is the Captain speaking. There's an impostor aboard the ship, a man who looks exactly like me and is pretending to be me. This man is dangerous. Utmost caution is to be observed. All crew members are to arm themselves. The impostor may be identified by scratches on his face. Repeat, the impostor may be identified by scratches on his face.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Section chiefs, assign personnel to the search. All search parties

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): report to Mister Spock for assignment.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Something?
SPOCK: About the phaser weapons to be set for stunning force and locked.
KIRK: Oh, yes, yes. All hand phasers must be set on base cycle, stunning force.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): The impostor is not to be injured. Use minimum force. Repeat, the imposter
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk!
KIRK (voiceover): Is not to be injured.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk. I'm Captain Kirk! I'm Captain Kirk! I'm Captain Kirk! Wilson!
WILSON: Sir?
KIRK: Wilson, give me your phaser.
WILSON: Yes, sir.
KIRK: How have you been?
WILSON: Fine, sir.

[Planet surface]
KIRK (voiceover): How's it going down there, Mister Sulu?
SULU: It's already twenty degrees below zero. Can't exactly

[Briefing room]
SULU (voiceover): call it balmy.
KIRK: Isn't there any way we can help them?
SPOCK: Thermal heaters were transported down. They duplicated. They won't operate.
KIRK: Then we've got to get those men up.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Spock here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Transporter Technician Wilson found injured near the Captain's cabin. He says the impostor attacked him, called him by name, took his hand phaser.
SPOCK: Acknowledged. Continue the search.
KIRK: We've got to find him before he, but how?
SPOCK: Apparently, this double, however different in temperament, has your knowledge of the ship, its crew, its devices. This being the case, perhaps we can outguess him by determining his next move. Knowing how the ship is laid out, where would you go to elude a mass search?
KIRK: The lower levels. The Engineering deck.

[Engineering]
SPOCK: Set and locked on base cycle to stun, not to kill. What about your phaser, Captain? Don't you think we ought to get some help, Captain?
KIRK: No. I don't want anyone else to see the
SPOCK: Captain, you ordered me to tell you.
KIRK: Mister Spock, if I'm to be the Captain, I've got to act like one.
KIRK: You can't hurt me. You can't kill me. You can't. Don't you understand? I'm part of you. You need me. I need you.
OTHER KIRK: I don't need you.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: He'll be regaining consciousness soon, and not knowing what his physical state is, I don't think I dare give him a tranquilizer of any kind. I think we'd better bind him.
KIRK: Yes. yes, all right. What's the matter with me?
SPOCK: Judging from my observations, Captain, you're rapidly losing the power of decision.
MCCOY: You have a point, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, always, Doctor. We have here an unusual opportunity to appraise the human mind, or to examine, in Earth terms, the roles of good and evil in a man. His negative side, which you call hostility, lust, violence, and his positive side, which Earth people express as compassion, love, tenderness.
MCCOY: It's the Captain's guts you're analyzing. Are you of that, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, and what is it that makes one man an exceptional leader? We see indications that it's his negative side which makes him strong, that his evil side, if you will, properly controlled and diskiplined, is vital to his strength. Your negative side removed from you, the power of command begins to elude you.
KIRK: What is your point, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: If your power of command continues to weaken, you'll soon be unable to function as Captain. You must be prepared for that.
MCCOY: You have your intellect, Jim. You can fight with that!
KIRK: For how long?
SPOCK: If I seem insensitive to what you're going through, Captain, understand it's the way I am.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Scott, sir, on the lower level of the Engineering deck.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I've found a new trouble with the transporter. The casing has a wide gap ripped in it. The main circuits

[Sickbay]
SCOTT (voiceover): have been burned through. The abort control circuit is gone altogether.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Can you give us a status report, Captain? Temperature's still dropping. Now forty one degrees below zero.
KIRK (voiceover): We've located the trouble. It shouldn't be much longer.
SULU: Do you think you might be able to find a long rope somewhere and lower us down a pot of hot coffee?

[Sickbay]
KIRK: I'll see what we can do.
SULU (voiceover): Rice wine will do, if you're short on coffee.
KIRK: Engineering deck, Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: That unit, Scotty, status report.
SCOTT (voiceover): The transporter unit ionizer. Nothing much left of it, sir.
KIRK: How bad is it?
SCOTT (voiceover): We can't repair it in less than a week. Captain's Log, stardate 1673.5. Transporter still inoperable. My negative self is under restraint in Sickbay. My own indecisiveness growing. My force of will steadily weakening. On the planet, condition critical. Surface temperature is seventy five degrees below zero, still dropping.

[Planet surface]
SULU: I think we ought to give room service another call. That coffee's taking too long. Enterprise, this is Sulu.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Kirk here, Mister Sulu.
SULU (voiceover): Hot line direct to the Captain. Are we that far gone?
KIRK: I gave everybody the afternoon off. I'm watching the store.

[Planet surface]
KIRK (voiceover): How is it down there?
SULU: Oh, lovely, except that the frost is building up. We're using hand phasers to heat the rocks. One phaser quit on us, three still operating. Any possibility of getting us back aboard before the skiing season opens down here?

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: This is Spock, Mister Sulu. You'll have to hold on a little longer. There's no other way. Survival procedures, Mister Sulu.
SULU (voiceover): Per your training program, Mister Spock.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: What happened?
MCCOY: Apparently the body functioning weakened during the duplication process. A fact I failed to consider.
KIRK: He's not dying?
KIRK: Yes, he is.
OTHER KIRK: Help me.
KIRK: How can he die? Can I survive without him?
MCCOY: I don't know, Jim.
KIRK: Don't be afraid. Here's my hand. Hold on. You don't have to be afraid. I won't let go. Hold on. You won't be afraid if you use your mind and think! Think! You can do it. That's it!
MCCOY: Jim, he is back! Jim, you can use that brandy now. In fact, I'll join you.
KIRK: I have to take him back inside myself. I can't survive without him. I don't want him back. He's like an animal, a thoughtless, brutal animal, and yet it's me. Me.
MCCOY: Jim, you're no different than anyone else. We all have our darker side. We need it! It's half of what we are. It's not really ugly, it's human.
KIRK: Human.
MCCOY: Yes, human. A lot of what he is makes you the man you are. God forbid I should have to agree with Spock, but he was right. Without the negative side, you wouldn't be the Captain. You couldn't be, and you know it. Your strength of command lies mostly in him.
KIRK: What do I have?
MCCOY: You have the goodness.
KIRK: Not enough. I have a ship to command.
MCCOY: The intelligence, the logic. It appears your half has most of that, and perhaps that's where man's essential courage comes from. For you see, he was afraid and you weren't.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here. Would you come to the transporter room. We think we may have found an answer.
KIRK: Coming.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: What is it?
SCOTT: We've found a way to get the transporter working, sir.
SPOCK: We've attached some bypass and leader circuits to compensate for the difference. Tied directly into the impulse engines, there shouldn't be more than a five point variation in the velocity balance. I suggest we send the animal through. Captain.
KIRK: Yes, yes. Go ahead.
SCOTT: I'll grab him by the scruff of the neck and hold him as long as I can.
KIRK: Don't hurt him.
SPOCK: It's painless and quick. The animal will be unconscious for only a few minutes.
SCOTT: If this doesn't work, I don't know what will.
SPOCK: Energize. Reverse.
SPOCK: The shock of putting him back together seems to have been too much for him.
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim. Captain's Log, stardate 1673.1. Entry made by Second Officer Spock. Captain Kirk retains command of this vessel, but his force of will rapidly fading. Condition of landing party critical. Transporter unit still under repair.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Autopsy in-depth. Hurry. I don't know. Animal could have died of some kind of shock.
SPOCK: For once, I agree with you.
MCCOY: I said could have, Mister Spock. We won't know until we get a full post-mortem.
SPOCK: No autopsy is necessary to know that the animal was terrified, confused. It was split into two halves and suddenly thrust back together again. Thus shock induced by blind terror.
KIRK: Yes, yes, that sounds likely.
SPOCK: It couldn't understand. You can. You have your intelligence controlling your fear.
KIRK: Get the transporter room ready.
MCCOY: Could be, if, maybe. All guesswork so far. Just theory. Jim, why don't you give me a chance to do an autopsy and let Spock check the transporter circuits again.
KIRK: That sounds, sounds reasonable. We should double-check everything.
SPOCK: Aren't you forgetting something, Captain?
KIRK: No, I don't think I've for
SPOCK: Your men on the planet surface. How much time do they have left?
KIRK: Yes, that's right. The men. We have to take the chance, Bones. Their lives
MCCOY: Suppose it wasn't shock, Jim. Suppose death was caused by transporter malfunction. Then you'd die. They'd die, anyway. Jim, you can't risk your life on a theory!
SPOCK: Being split in two halves is no theory with me, Doctor. I have a human half, you see, as well as an alien half, submerged, constantly at war with each other. Personal experience, Doctor. I survive it because my intelligence wins over both, makes them live together. Your intelligence would enable you to survive as well.
KIRK: Help me. Somebody make the decision.
SPOCK: Are you relinquishing your command, Captain?
KIRK: No. No, I'm not.
MCCOY: Well then, we can't help you, Jim. The decision is yours.
KIRK: Mister Spock, ready the transporter room. Bones, continue the autopsy.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk, I have a tie-in with Sulu now.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Captain K-Kirk, Sulu here. One hundred seventeen below. Can't last much longer.

[Sickbay]
SULU (voiceover): Can't see clearly, Doctor, to read top indicator. Think the cold penetrating communicator. Two men unconscious. No time. No. Can't wait. No time.
KIRK: Mister Sulu. Mister Sulu. Can't wait. Can't let them die.
OTHER KIRK: What are you going to do?
KIRK: Go through the transporter, both of us.
OTHER KIRK: There's nothing I can do to stop you.
KIRK: It's what I have to do. It's what I have to do. What we have to do.
OTHER KIRK: I won't fight you anymore. Oh, I feel so weak. I'll be glad when this is over.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Janice, hello.
RAND: Captain, I
KIRK: Yeoman, I owe you an explanation.
RAND: No.
KIRK: Yes, I do. The transporter malfunctioned, divided me, created a duplicate. The animal part of me came to your cabin. He even scratched me to make us look more alike. I'd like the chance to explain it to you. You don't mind if I come to your cabin later?
RAND: No, sir.
KIRK: Bridge.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: No word from Mister Sulu, sir.
OTHER KIRK: Prepare to leave orbit, Mister Farrell. Well?
FARRELL: Captain!
OTHER KIRK: I gave you an order, Mister Farrell.
FARRELL: But what about
OTHER KIRK: They can't be saved. Prepare to leave orbit.
FARRELL: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, I thought the plan
OTHER KIRK: I've changed my mind. Man your station, Mister Spock. Grab him. He's the impostor.
MCCOY: No!
OTHER KIRK: McCoy, he's fooled you.
MCCOY: He attacked him.
OTHER KIRK: Mister Spock, you know who I am. You know what that is.
FARRELL: Mister Spock, which one? What do we do?
SPOCK: We'll let the captain handle this.
OTHER KIRK: I'm the captain. Isn't that obvious? Look at his face. Remember the scratches? Look how he's tried to hide them. He wants you to think that he's Captain Kirk. You know who I am.
KIRK: Yes, I know.
OTHER KIRK: You want to kill me, don't you? Farrell, James, grab him. He'll destroy the ship! I'm the Captain. Don't you understand? I'm captain of the ship! I'm the captain! This is my ship! My ship! It's mine! I'll kill you.
KIRK: Can half a man live?
OTHER KIRK: Take another step, you'll die.
KIRK: Then we'll both die.
OTHER KIRK: Please, I don't want to. Don't make me. Don't make me. I don't want to go back. Please! I want to live!
KIRK: You will. Both of us.
OTHER KIRK: I want to live!

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: You'll have to hold on to him, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: If this doesn't work.
SPOCK: Understood, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Ready.
MCCOY: Well, Mister Spock? Jim?
KIRK: Get those men aboard fast.
SPOCK: Right away, Captain.
MCCOY: Severe exposure and frostbite, but I think they'll make it. How do you feel, Jim?
KIRK: How? I've seen a part of myself no man should ever see.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: Status report, green.
SPOCK: All sections report ready, sir.
KIRK: Good. Thank you, Mister Spock, from both of us.
SPOCK: Shall I pass that on to the crew, sir?
KIRK: The impostor's back where he belongs. Let's forget him.
RAND: Captain? The impostor told me what happened, who he really was, and I'd just like to say that. Well, sir, what I'd like is
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman.
SPOCK: The, er, impostor had some interesting qualities, wouldn't you say, Yeoman?
KIRK: This is the Captain speaking. Navigator, set in course correction. Helmsman, steady as she goes.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1513.1. Our position, orbiting planet M-113. On board the Enterprise, Mister Spock temporarily in command. On the planet the ruins of an ancient and long-dead civilisation. Ship's surgeon McCoy and myself are now beaming down to the planet's surface. Our mission, routine medical examination of archeologist Robert Crater and his wife Nancy. Routine but for the fact that Nancy Crater is that one woman in Doctor McCoy's past.

[Planet surface outside building]
KIRK: Shall we pick some flowers, Doctor? When a man visits an old girlfriend she usually expects something like that.
MCCOY: Is that how you get girls to like you, by bribing them? There doesn't seem to be anybody around, does there.
KIRK: They'll be along. You rushed us down ten minutes early.

[Crater's home]
KIRK: Professor Crater? Professor? Mrs. Crater? Nervous, Dr. McCoy?
MCCOY: Yeah, a little bit, I guess. You see, we walked out of each other's lives ten years ago. She married Crater, and for all I know she may have forgotten me completely. Of all the bonehead ideas, Jim, how'd I let myself in for things like this?
NANCY: Leonard!
MCCOY: Nancy.
NANCY: Hello.
MCCOY: It's good to see you.
NANCY: Let me look at you.
MCCOY: You haven't aged a day. Oh, this is Captain Jim Kirk of the Enterprise.
KIRK: Mrs. Crater. I've heard a great deal about you.
NANCY: All good, I hope.
MCCOY: And Crewman Darnell.
DARNELL: How do you do, ma'am?
KIRK: Something wrong, Darnell?
DARNELL: Excuse me sir but, ma'am, if I didn't know better I would swear you were someone I left behind on Wrigley's Pleasure Planet. It's funny, you're exactly like a girl that
MCCOY: A little less mouth, Darnell.
DARNELL: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to. I mean, I know it's impossible, of course.
KIRK: Why don't you step outside, Darnell.
DARNELL: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
KIRK: Maybe I'll step outside, too.
NANCY: What? And let Plum examine me all alone?
KIRK: Plum?
MCCOY: Plum.
NANCY: A nickname I gave Leonard when we were very young.
MCCOY: I'll, er, I'll wait for the professor and I'll catch you both at once.
NANCY: I'd better go get Bob. Every time he starts digging he forgets time, sleep, food, everything. Be back in a minute.

[Planet surface outside building]
BLONDE NANCY: It's quite warm here, isn't it?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, additional entry. Since our mission was routine, we had beamed down to the planet without suspicion. We were unaware each member of the landing party was seeing a different woman, a different Nancy Crater.

[Crater's home]
KIRK: Professor Crater, I'm Captain Kirk. This is
CRATER: The heroic Captain and the intrepid doctor cross interstellar space to preserve our health. Your sense of duty is overwhelming. Now will you please go back where you came from and tell whoever issues your orders to leave me and my wife alone. We need salt against the heat. Aside from that, we're doing very well, thank you.
MCCOY: I'm pleased you're doing well but I'm required to confirm that fact.
CRATER: Doubtless the good surgeon will enjoy prodding and poking us with his arcane machinery. Go away, we don't want you.
MCCOY: What you want is unimportant right now. What you will get is required by the book.
KIRK: Quote. All research personnel on alien planets are required to have their health certified by a starship surgeon at one year intervals. Like it or not, Professor, as commander of the starship, I'm required
CRATER: To show your gold braid to everyone. You love it, don't you.
KIRK: He's all yours, Plum. Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Sit down and breathe deeply, please.
CRATER: Did I hear you call him Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY: You did.
CRATER: McCoy. I've heard Nancy speak of a Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: That's me. Didn't she mention I was here?
CRATER: You've seen Nancy?
KIRK: She went out to get you.
CRATER: You've seen her too? You were with the good Doctor?
KIRK: Yes. Why?
CRATER: Nothing. It's just that it gives me pleasure to know that she's gotten to see an old friend and has a chance for some company. It's different for me, I enjoy solitude. But for a woman. You understand, of course.
MCCOY: Well, it certainly hasn't aged her. She looks exactly as I knew her twelve years ago. Amazing, Jim. Like a girl of twenty five.
CRATER: Sorry. I'm sorry, Captain, sit down. I seem to have forgotten my manners.
KIRK: Quite all right.
MCCOY: I'm not joking, Jim. She hasn't aged a day. She doesn't have a gray hair on her head.
KIRK: She's got some gray, Bones. Excuse me, Professor, she's a handsome woman, yes, but hardly twenty five.
CRATER: You've seen my wife with the eyes of your past attachment, Doctor. I'm sure when Nancy lets, when you see her again she'll be a believable age.
MCCOY: Well at any rate she doesn't look a day over thirty.
CRATER: Genuine affection. I'm glad you still feel it for her. Leonard, isn't it? She's a fine woman.
MCCOY: Open your mouth.
CRATER: Why, I thought the machine
MCCOY: The machine is capable of almost anything but I'll still put my trust in a healthy set of tonsils. Now, open your mouth.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: McCoy.
MCCOY: Dead, Jim. Strange. A red mottling all over his face.
KIRK: What happened?
CRATER: What do you suppose happened, Captain? You beam down a crewman who doesn't know better than to eat an untested plant.
KIRK: I've just lost a crewman, Mrs. Crater. I want to know what happened.
NANCY: Well, I, I
MCCOY: Take it easy, Nancy. Just tell us what you know.
NANCY: I was just. I couldn't find Bob, and I was coming back. I crossed to your crewman. I wanted him to know I wasn't offended by the things he'd said back there. You remember. Then I, I noticed he had a Borgia plant in his hand. Before I could say anything, he, he'd taken a bite from it. He fell, his face all twisted, and. Leonard, you're looking at me like you don't believe me.
MCCOY: No, no, no, no, it's not that. It's something entirely different. Jim, I suppose we could complete these examinations later.
CRATER: We don't need an examination, you can see that. Perhaps you'd better take your man and
KIRK: We're well aware of our next duties, Professor. We'll complete your examinations tomorrow. Transporter room.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Transporter room, Captain.
KIRK: Lock onto us. Three beaming up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Locked onto you, Captain.
NANCY: Salt. You did ask them about more salt tablets?
CRATER: I'll take care of the provisioning, Nancy.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Miss Uhura, your last sub-space log contained an error in the frequencies column.
UHURA: Mister Spock, sometimes I think if I hear that word frequency once more, I'll cry.
SPOCK: Cry?
UHURA: I was just trying to start a conversation.
SPOCK: Well, since it is illogical for a communications officer to resent the word frequency, I have no answer.
UHURA: No, you have an answer. I'm an illogical woman who's beginning to feel too much a part of that communications console. Why don't you tell me I'm an attractive young lady, or ask me if I've ever been in love? Tell me how your planet Vulcan looks on a lazy evening when the moon is full.
SPOCK: Vulcan has no moon, Miss Uhura.
UHURA: I'm not surprised, Mister Spock.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Transporter room to Bridge. Landing party returning. They report one death.
SPOCK: Bridge acknowledging.
UHURA: I don't believe it.
SPOCK: Explain.
UHURA: You explain. That means that somebody is dead and you just sit there. It could be Captain Kirk. He's the closest thing you have to a friend.
SPOCK: Lieutenant, my demonstration of concern will not change what happened. The transporter room is very well-manned and they will call if they need my assistance.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: She called it a Borgia plant.
KIRK: Something new to me.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge to Dispensary.
KIRK: Go ahead, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (screen): Borgia plant listed in library record tapes as carbon group three vegetation similar to Earth nightshade family. Alkaloid poison. Chemical structure common to class M planets. About the strange mottling on his facial skin surface. There is no reference to this symptom.
MCCOY: Hmm. Well then, this man wasn't poisoned.
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Spock. She said she saw him eat the plant.
MCCOY: She's mistaken. I know alkaloid poison, what to look for. There's not a trace of it in his body.
KIRK: There were bits of the plant in his mouth.
MCCOY: Jim, don't tell me my business. He could not have swallowed any. My instruments would have picked up any trace of it whatsoever.
KIRK: Then what kills a healthy man
MCCOY: I'll tell you something else. This man shouldn't be dead. I can't find anything wrong with him. According to all the tests he should just get up and walk away from here. I don't know. I'll have the tests double-checked. My eyes may be tricking me. I swear, Jim, when I first saw her she looked just as I'd known her ten years ago. Granted, for a moment I may have been looking at her through a romantic haze.
KIRK: How your lost love affects your vision, Doctor, doesn't interest me. I've lost a man. I want to know what killed him.
MCCOY: Yes, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1513.4. In orbit around planet M-113. One crewman, member of the landing party, dead by violence. Cause unknown, but we are certain the cause of death was not poison.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Message, Captain. Starship base on Caran 4 requesting explanation of our delay here, sir. Space Commander Dominguez says we have supplies he urgently needs. Tell Jose he'll get his chili peppers when we get there. Tell him they're prime Mexican reds. I handpicked them myself, but he won't die if he goes a few more days without them. Got it?
UHURA: Got it, Captain.
KIRK: Well?
SPOCK: No mistake in our record tapes. Borgia plant. Its sole deadly property is alkaloid poison.
KIRK: And Professor Crater and wife?
SPOCK: Check out perfectly. They arrived here nearly five years ago. Visited by various vessels, made fairly heavy shipments out, of artifacts and reports. However, there has been a marked drop in shipments during the last year.
MCCOY (voiceover): Dispensary to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
MCCOY (voiceover): We found something.
KIRK: What is it?
MCCOY: I'd rather not put it on the speaker.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: So improbable we almost didn't check it.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: Sodium chloride. Not a trace of it.
MCCOY: This man has no salt in his body at all.
KIRK: Can you explain that, Doctor?
MCCOY: I can't, except that what we normally carry in our bodies is gone from his.
SPOCK: He would die almost instantly.
KIRK: How? There isn't a mark on his body.
MCCOY: Except the red rings on his face.
KIRK: You called that skin mottling.
MCCOY: I thought it was, sir. Another error on my part.
KIRK: I'm not counting them, Bones. Are you in the mood for an apology?
MCCOY: Oh, forget it. I probably was mooning over her. I should have been thinking about my job.
KIRK: Perhaps you were. Both Nancy and Crater went out of their way to mention one item they needed.
MCCOY: Salt tablets.
KIRK: Mister Spock, outfit a landing party. We're beaming down with some questions.

[Crater's home]
CRATER: One might think that you had more important duties than harassing people, Captain.
KIRK: I have, Professor. Believe me, I have. Where is Mrs. Crater? I want to talk to her, too.
CRATER: Captain, you can't just beam down here and bully us, and interfere with our work.
KIRK: Mrs. Crater. I won't ask again.
CRATER: Possibly at the other diggings. We don't keep military logs
KIRK: Green, find her.
GREEN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Standing by.
KIRK: Sturgeon, transport a sample of the plant to Mister Spock. We'll check if it's actually the Borgia plant or something we don't understand. You got that, Mister Spock?
SPOCK (voiceover): Complete analysis.
CRATER: Captain, considering the inescapable fact that you are a trespasser on my planet
KIRK: Your complaint is noted, sir. Look, something we don't understand killed one of my men. It could prove to be a danger to you and Mrs. Crater, too.
CRATER: We've been here for almost five years. If there were anything hostile here we would know about it, wouldn't we?
KIRK: Bones, tell the professor what the autopsy revealed.
MCCOY: Our crewman died of salt depletion. Sudden, total loss of it. Medically impossible by any standards.
KIRK: And by coincidence, both you and Mrs. Crater requested salt tablets.
CRATER: And your esteemed physician cannot explain our need for salt tablets?
KIRK: We're all aware of the need for salt on a hot and arid planet like this, Professor, but it's a mystery, and I don't like mysteries. They give me a bellyache and I've got a beauty right now.
CRATER: Nancy and I started with twenty five pounds. This is what we have left. Now what is so mysterious about that?
MCCOY: Salt.
KIRK: One of the missions of the Enterprise is to protect human life in places like this. I'm going to have to ask you and Mrs. Crater to stay aboard my ship until we find out what killed that crewman.
CRATER: But you can't do that.
KIRK: But I can, Professor. How? You've been here five years. Will a couple of days make a difference? Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
KIRK: Arrange quarters for Professor and Mrs. Crater. Did you get the plant analysis?
SPOCK (voiceover): It is the Borgia variety, Captain. Could not have caused Darnell's death.
MCCOY: Jim, he's run off.
CRATER: Nancy! You! Salt! I've got salt! Smell it! Smell it, Nancy!
KIRK (voiceover): Professor Crater! Professor Crater!
MCCOY (voiceover): Professor Crater!
KIRK: Professor Crater! Professor! Professor!
MCCOY: Jim! Jim, it's Sturgeon. He's dead.
KIRK: We'd better locate Crewman Green. Green! Green! Crewman Green, report! Green!
MCCOY: Crewman Green, report! Green! Green, where are you? Could it be Crater? He came this way.
KIRK: I don't know. Green! Did you see this?
GREEN: Yes, sir. Sturgeon was dead when I found him. I was circling to find whatever it was.
MCCOY: Same red rings on his face. Have you seen Nancy, Mrs. Crater?
GREEN: No, sir. I checked all through the ruins.
MCCOY: I'm worried about her, Jim. She's not at the quarters, she's not at the diggings. She could be in trouble. Nancy!
KIRK: Crater!
MCCOY: Nancy, it's Leonard!
KIRK: We're beaming aboard the ship, Doctor.
MCCOY: You can't leave her!
KIRK: We can't search this whole planet on foot.
MCCOY: Jim!
KIRK: You could learn something from Mister Spock, Doctor. Stop thinking with your glands. We've equipment aboard the Enterprise that could pinpoint a match lit anywhere on this planet, or the heat of a body. Transporter room, Kirk speaking. Three to beam up.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Kirk to Bridge.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
KIRK: Break out the surface search equipment. I want co-ordinates on two people.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
KIRK: There's a body down there. Sturgeon.
TRANSPORTER OPERATOR: We'll bring him home, sir.
KIRK: You could use some sleep, Bones.
MCCOY: All right, Jim.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge.

[Corridor]
RAND: Oh, Green, what went on down there? Who do you think you are?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Something odd, Captain. You said two people.
KIRK: Professor and Nancy Crater.
SPOCK: We get a reading on only one person, probably Crater. He's circling as if searching for something.
KIRK: Expand search radius.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
RAND: Why don't you go chase an asteroid?
REDSHIRT: Hey, Janice, is that for me?
RAND: Don't you wish it was?
BLUESHIRT: How about that?
REDSHIRT: Yeah, how'd you like to have her as your personal yeoman?

[Life Sciences Section - Botany department]
RAND: Where are you, Sulu?
SULU: In here feeding the weepers, Janice.
RAND: I've got your tray.
SULU: May the Great Bird of the Galaxy bless your planet.
RAND: Thank you. Hello, Beauregard. How are you today, darling?
SULU: Her name's Gertrude.
RAND: No, it's a he plant. A girl can tell.
SULU: Why do people have to call inanimate objects she, like she's a fast ship.
RAND: He is not an inanimate object. He's so animate he makes me nervous. In fact, I keep expecting one of these plants of yours to grab me.
SULU: Hello, Green.
RAND: He's not talking today. You been nipping saurian brandy or something?
SULU: Take it easy. Calm down. Very sensitive.
RAND: He's the real spook. Suppose he's going space happy or something?

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: In a way, ma'am. You were just thinking of someone like me. I'm guessing of course, but you do look a little lonely.
UHURA: I see. So naturally, when I'm lonely I think of you.
CREWMAN: Ina cuvanea mwanamke turee.
UHURA: Una kafeeri Hur. You're Swahili?
KIRK (voiceover): Lieutenant Uhura to the Bridge. Lieutenant Uhura to the Bridge.
RAND: I'd better get this tray back. Bye, Beauregard.
SULU: Wait a minute, I'll walk along.
KIRK (voiceover): Lieutenant Uhura, report to the Bridge.
UHURA: Lieutenant Uhura. On my way, sir.

[McCoy's quarters]
MCCOY: McCoy to Bridge. Captain there?
KIRK (screen): Kirk here. Nothing to report, Doctor. We haven't located Mrs. Crater. What's the matter, can't you sleep?
MCCOY: Nope.
KIRK (screen): Try taking one of those red pills you gave me last week. You'll sleep.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: The simple fact is unless there's something seriously wrong with the ship's equipment, there's only one person within a one hundred mile circle.
KIRK: All right. We'll triangulate on him. We'll let Professor Crater explain what happened to his wife. Remember my instructions, Lieutenant. Keep a tight fix on us. If we let out a yell I want an armed party down there before the echo dies.
UHURA: Yes, Captain.

[McCoy's quarters]
MCCOY: Nancy. Well, come in. come in. I've been worried sick about you. I wonder why Jim didn't tell me he found you.
NANCY: I'm so happy to see you, Leonard. The others, they, I, I don't relate to them as much as you. You have such strong memories of me.
MCCOY: Well.
NANCY: You do care, don't you, Leonard? It makes me feel so, so safe.
MCCOY: Nancy, er
NANCY: My husband? I like your feelings better. Much stronger. But you're tired, You need to rest.
MCCOY: You're as bad as Jim Kirk. He's been telling me to take these.
NANCY: I think you should. I'll get you some water.

[Corridor]
RAND: Look at his face!
SULU: Bridge. Sulu. Trouble on deck nine, section two. We need a medical team.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1513.8. I am now certain that the violent death of my crewmen was caused by some strange life-form.

[McCoy's quarters]
MCCOY: I was so worried. Your husband acting strange, crewmen dying.
NANCY: You're so tired, darling. Just rest now.
UHURA (voiceover): Medical department alert. Doctors and medics acknowledge.
NANCY: It's nothing, dear. It's nothing. You just sleep. Nancy will take care of everything.
UHURA (voiceover): Dr. McCoy to the Bridge. Dr. McCoy to the Bridge. Dr. McCoy to the Bridge.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, additional. Armed and able-bodied crewmen are not attacked and slaughtered this easily. Apparently, the killer can immobilize them as it approaches perhaps with some hypnotic or paralyzing power. The answer lies with Professor Crater.

[Planet surface - ruins]
KIRK: Professor Crater.
CRATER: Go away! We don't want you here.
KIRK: We? Where's your wife, Professor? We're concerned about her.
CRATER: I'm armed. Go away.
KIRK: Where's your wife, Professor?
CRATER: She's no concern of yours.
KIRK: We're worried about her safety. Aren't you? Professor, you're a reasonable man, let me Kirk here.
SULU (voiceover): Casualty, Captain. Barnhart was found dead on deck nine. Same symptoms.
SPOCK: Spock cutting in, Captain. Something here, through the arches to your left.
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Sulu. Spock has something.
SPOCK: Green.
KIRK: He beamed up to the ship with us.
SPOCK: Or something did.
KIRK: Enterprise from Kirk.
SULU (voiceover): Bridge. Sulu.
KIRK: You have an intruder aboard. Could be masquerading as Crewman Green. General quarters, security condition three.
SULU (voiceover): GQ security three, sir.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): General quarters three. Intruder alert. GQ three. Intruder alert. General quarters three. Intruder alert. GQ three. Intruder alert.
UHURA (voiceover): Reporting GQ three secure, Captain. Do you require assistance there?
SPOCK: Crater knows the creature. If we could take him alive.
KIRK: Negative, Lieutenant, but keep locked in on us. Kirk out. Let's get him.
CRATER: We don't want you here! We're happy alone! I'll kill to stay alone. You hear that, Kirk? Or you'll have to kill me. II don't care either way.
SPOCK: Obviously, taking him alive is going to be difficult.
KIRK: Set your phaser on one quarter. I'll leave mine on stun.
SPOCK: Why risk your life for his?
KIRK: He's not trying to kill us, he's trying to frighten us, and he's doing a pretty good job.

[Bridge]
SULU: GQ three now secured except for decks five, seven, and ten. Come in, please.
UHURA: He's not in supply and maintenance.
SULU: Go to Engineering now. Run through file photos of the crewmen there.
UHURA: Check.
SECURITY (voiceover): Deck five reporting. Crewman Green is not in his quarters. No one has seen him
SULU: Keep in mind if you find him, he's not Crewman Green. The Captain reports Crewman Green is dead.
RAND: And he, or rather it, followed me. I thought there was something twitchy about him.
SULU: He, whatever, was probably your crewman, too, Lieutenant.
UHURA: He must have been it. You know, I would have remembered a crewman like him.
MCCOY: The creature leading you a merry chase, Mister Sulu?
SULU: The creature?
MCCOY: Or whatever it is that's killing the crewmen. Perhaps I can help. Fill me in.

[Planet surface - ruins]
KIRK: Set.
SPOCK: Acknowledged. Crater!
KIRK: Your wife, Professor. Where is she? Your wife, Professor. Where is she?
CRATER: She was the last of her kind.
KIRK: The last of her kind?
CRATER: The last of its kind. Earth history, remember? Like the passenger pigeon or buffalo. Ooh! I feel strange.
KIRK: Just stunned. You'll be able to think in a minute.
SPOCK: The Earth buffalo. What about it?
CRATER: Once there were millions of them prairies black with them. One herd covered three whole states, and when they moved they were like thunder.
SPOCK: And now they're gone. Is that what you mean?
CRATER: Like the creatures here. Once there were millions of them. Now there's one left. Nancy understood.
SPOCK: Always in the past tense.
KIRK: Where's your wife? Where is she now?
CRATER: Dead. Buried up on the hill. It killed her.
KIRK: When?
CRATER: Oh, a year, or was it two?
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SULU (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. Sulu here.
KIRK: It's definite, Mister Sulu. The intruder can assume any shape. Crewmen, you, myself, anyone. Do you understand?
SULU (voiceover): Affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: Go to GQ four.
SULU (voiceover): General quarters four, Captain.
CRATER: The creature was trying to survive. It has that right, doesn't it?
KIRK: Kirk to transporter room. Three to beam up.
CRATER: They needed salt to stay alive. There was no more salt. It's the last one. The buffalo. There is no difference.
KIRK: There's one, Professor. Your creature is killing my people.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, continuing. The Enterprise has been invaded by a creature capable of assuming any form, and with the capacity to paralyze and draw the life from any one of us.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): Deck five, section three. Deck five, section three. Report.
SECURITY: Security 3 A here. 3 B in sight.

[Briefing room]
UHURA: Negative, Captain. I've checked every face on this vessel. It was not a crewman I saw.
KIRK: Yeoman Rand, how long was this Green with you?
RAND: As long as he, it thought it could get to the salt on my tray, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Supplies of salt have been set out as bait at all decks and engineering levels, Captain. However, no one or nothing has approached them as yet.
KIRK: Dr. McCoy?
MCCOY: Yes?
KIRK: Medical department report, Doctor.
MCCOY: Oh. Well, we could offer it salt without tricks. There's no reason for it to attack us.
SPOCK: Your attitude is laudable, Doctor, but your reasoning is reckless.
CRATER: The creature is not dangerous when fed.
MCCOY: No, it's simply trying to survive by using its natural ability to take other forms.
CRATER: The way the chameleon uses its protective coloring, an ability retained no doubt from its primitive state, the way we have retained our incisor teeth. They were once fangs. Certain of our muscles were designed for chase. It uses its ability the way we would use our muscles and teeth if necessary, to stay alive.
MCCOY: And like us, it's an intelligent animal. There's no need to hunt it down.
SPOCK: A very interesting hypothesis, Doctor. Briefing room. SULU [on monitor] All the halls sealed off. All weapons accounted for and locked away. Security four in effect on every level. Still no lead on intruder.
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Continue the search. Crater, we don't know who or what we're looking for. We need your help, and now.
CRATER: I demanded, I even begged that you get off my planet.
KIRK: Can you recognize this thing When you see it? Professor, I'll forego charges up to this point but this creature's aboard my ship and I'll have it, or I'll have your skin, or both. Now where is it?
CRATER: I loved Nancy very much. Few women like my Nancy. She lives in my dreams. She walks and sings in them.
KIRK: And it becomes Nancy for you.
CRATER: Not because of tricks. It doesn't trick me. It needs love as much as it needs salt. When it killed Nancy, I almost destroyed it but, it isn't just a beast. It is intelligent and the last of its kind.
KIRK: You bleed too much, Crater. You're too pure and noble. Are you saving the last of its kind or has this become Crater's private heaven, here on this planet? This thing becomes wife, lover, best friend, wise man, fool, idol, slave. It isn't a bad life to have everyone in the universe at your beck and call, and you win all the arguments.
CRATER: You don't understand.
KIRK: Have you learned to see this thing in whatever form it becomes?
CRATER: Yes.
KIRK: Are you going to help us find it?
CRATER: Sorry, I can't.
SPOCK: Recommend we use truth serum, Captain.
KIRK: Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, I resist using it, but in this case the professor will give us the truth.
KIRK: Take him.
SPOCK: I'll accompany you, Doctor.
MCCOY: Oh, yes. Of course.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN (voiceover): Captain Kirk to dispensary. Captain Kirk to dispensary.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: It wasn't McCoy. It was the creature. It hit me. Crater grabbed my phaser. I wondered about McCoy. Doubt had crossed my mind.
RAND: Captain. Professor Crater.
KIRK: Dead. But it had you, too.
SPOCK: Fortunately, my ancestors spawned in another ocean than yours did. My blood cells are quite different.

[McCoy's quarters]
NANCY: Leonard. Leonard, wake up. Please help me. Help me, Leonard. They're trying to kill me. Don't let them kill me!
MCCOY: Easy, easy. Nobodies going to
NANCY: But you must help me!
KIRK: Move aside, Bones.
MCCOY: What's going on here, Jim?
KIRK: She's not Nancy, Bones.
MCCOY: Are you insane?
KIRK: It killed four crewmen. Now Crater.
MCCOY: It?
KIRK: The creature. It kills. It needs salt to live. Bones, move aside.
MCCOY: No!
KIRK: My guess is she needs more. You want it, Nancy? Come and get it.
MCCOY: You're frightening her, Jim.
KIRK: Not fright. Hunger. Look at her.
NANCY: Leonard, if you love me, make him go away.
KIRK: Come on. You want this, Nancy? Come on Nancy. Come and get it. Come and get it. Here it is.
NANCY: Leonard, help me.
MCCOY: Stop it, Jim!
KIRK: McCoy, get out of the way!
MCCOY: Are you out of your mind?
KIRK: Get out of the way.
SPOCK: It's killing the Captain. Shoot it, Doctor, quickly!
MCCOY: No! No!
SPOCK: It's killing the captain! Shoot, quick!
MCCOY: I won't shoot Nancy.
SPOCK: This is not Nancy. If she were Nancy, could she take this?
MCCOY: Stop it! Stop it, Spock! Stop it!
SPOCK: Is that Nancy, Doctor?
MCCOY: No. No!
NANCY: Leonard. Leonard, no. Leonard, please.
MCCOY: Lord, forgive me.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Bones.

[Bridge]
SULU: Ready to leave orbit, Captain.
SPOCK: Something wrong, Captain?
KIRK: I was thinking about the buffalo, Mister Spock. Warp one, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Warp one, sir. Leaving orbit.

[Psi 2000 control room]
SPOCK: Check out the life-support systems.
TORMOLEN: Right, sir. All life systems were off, sir.
SPOCK: Someone strangled this woman. TORMOLEN The other four are back there.
SPOCK: Dead?
TORMOLEN: Right, sir.
SPOCK: Engineer at his post? TORMOLEN He's frozen there like he didn't care.
SPOCK: The rest?
TORMOLEN: Well, better look for yourself, Mister Spock. One man was taking a shower fully clothed.
SPOCK: Be certain we expose ourselves to nothing. Spock here. Do you read, Enterprise?
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk, affirmative.
SPOCK: All station personnel are dead.
KIRK (voiceover): What caused it?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. It's like nothing we've dealt with before. Captain's Log: Stardate 1704.2. The science party we were to have picked up has been found dead. Life support systems had been turned off. Station personnel, frozen to death. Conditions highly unusual. Meanwhile, we remain in orbit to complete our mission, close scientific measurement of the break-up of this planet.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: You received my signal, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Yes, sir. Decontaminate.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Captain here.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Spock and Tormolen aboard, sir.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): We're holding them in the chamber for decontamination.
KIRK: Better have Medicine look them over too. Tell Mister Spock I'll meet him there in ten minutes. Kirk out.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: You're fine, Joe. Up and out of there. Mister Spock? Your pulse is two hundred and forty two, your blood pressure is practically nonexistent, assuming you call that green stuff in your veins blood.
SPOCK: The readings are perfectly normal for me, Doctor, thank you, and as for my anatomy being different from yours, I am delighted. Captain.
KIRK: How are they?
MCCOY: They're fine, Jim.
TORMOLEN: Terrible, Captain. It was terrible. They were just sitting, like they didn't care. Whatever was happening, they didn't care. I keep wondering
KIRK: You keep wondering if man was meant to be out here. You keep wondering, you keep signing on. Any guesses, Mister Spock? Any idea of what happened down there?
SPOCK: I wish I could say, Captain. The circumstances were quite bizarre, however our record tapes may show us something.
TORMOLEN: Six dead. Six people dead.
KIRK: You'd better get some rest.
TORMOLEN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Set up those tapes, Mister Spock. We'll see if the answers are there.
CHAPEL: The lab status report, Doctor.
MCCOY: Oh, thank you, Christine.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Next tape, please.
RAND: Spectro-analysis tape, sir.
SPOCK: Thank you.
KIRK: Almost as though they were irrational, drugged. An engineer sitting there, apparently oblivious to everything. A woman strangled. A crewman with a phaser pistol in his hand.
SPOCK: He'd used the computer room as if it were an amusement gallery.
KIRK: And a fully clothed man frozen to death in a shower. If the image wasn't so ugly, it would be laughable. Not even a theory, gentlemen?
MCCOY: Definitely not drugs or intoxication. The bio-analysis on the tapes prove that conclusively.
SPOCK: It could be some form of space madness we've never heard of, but it would have to be caused by something. Our spectro-readings showed no contamination, no unusual elements present.
SCOTT: Or at least none your tricorders could register.
SPOCK: Instruments register only those things they're designed to register. Space still contains infinite unknowns.
KIRK: Earth Science needs the closest possible measurement of the breakup of this planet. To do this, we need the Enterprise in a critically tight orbit. Question. Could what happened down there to those people create any unusual danger to this vessel and crew?
SPOCK: We will need top efficiency, Captain. It'll be a tricky orbit. When the planet begins to go, there may be drastic changes in gravity, mass, magnetic field.
KIRK: The purpose of a briefing, gentlemen, is to get me answers based on your abilities and experience. In a critical orbit, there's no time for surprise.
SCOTT: Unless you people on the Bridge start taking showers with your clothes on, my engines can pull us out of anything. We'll be warping out of orbit within a half second of getting your command.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Scanners report sudden four degree shift in planet magnetic field. A change in mass also, sir.
SPOCK: It's beginning. Unusually rapid shifts.
KIRK: On our way, Lieutenant. I'll hold you to that half second, Scotty.

[Rec room]
SULU: Foil. It's a rapier. A thin sword.
RILEY: All right. So what do you do with it?
SULU: What do you mean, what do you do with it?
RILEY: Self-defense? Mayhem? Shish kebab?
SULU: You practice.
RILEY: For what?
SULU: Hi, Joey.
RILEY: Last week it was botany he was trying to get me interested in. I was supposed to be collecting leaves, plant specimens.
SULU: Your attitude is all wrong. Fencing tones the muscle, sharpens the eye, improves the posture. You tell him, Joey. Explain to him. Hey, Joey. You feeling all right?
TORMOLEN: Get off me! You don't rank me and you don't have pointed ears, so just get off my neck!
SULU: What's with him?
TORMOLEN: Nothing!
UHURA (voiceover): Attention. Engine room on standby alert. All duty personnel to the Bridge. Acknowledge.
SULU: You sure you're all right now, Joe? We've got to leave.
TORMOLEN: We're all a bunch of hypocrites. Sticking our noses into something that we've got no business. What are we doing out here, anyway?
SULU: Take it easy, Joe.
TORMOLEN: We bring pain and trouble with us, leave men and women stuck out on freezing planets until they die. What are we doing out here in space? Good? What good? We're polluting it, destroying it. We've got no business being out here. No business.
RILEY: Take it easy, Joe.
SULU: Now calm down.
TORMOLEN: If a man was supposed to fly, he'd have wings. If he was supposed to be out in space, he wouldn't need air to breathe, wouldn't need life-support systems to keep him from freezing to death.
RILEY: Hey, Joey, put the knife down, huh?
SULU: You're all steamed up, Joe.
TORMOLEN: We don't belong here. It's not ours. Not ours. Destroying and watching. We don't belong. I don't belong. Six people died down there. Why do I deserve to live?
SULU: What are you doing, Joe?
RILEY: Hey, Joey, put the knife down. Don't be a fool.
TORMOLEN: Let go!
RILEY: You're just getting in a sweat about Let me have the knife!
SULU: Joey, don't be a fool.
TORMOLEN: Let me go.
RILEY: Joey, give me the knife. Emergency! Rec room, area three nine. We need medics! Captain's Log, supplemental. Our orbit tightening. Our need for efficiency, critical. But unknown to us, a totally new and unusual disease has been brought aboard.

[Bridge]
RILEY: Relative gravity increasing, sir.
KIRK: Compensate, Mister Riley.
RILEY: Yes, sir.
SULU: Magnetic field continuing to shift, sir. Planet continuing to shrink in mass.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: All scanning stations manned, all recorders functioning, Captain.
RILEY: Orbit steady now, sir.
SPOCK: Obviously, this planet is condensing more rapidly than expected. A valuable study. We may be seeing Earth's distant future. Before its sun went dark, this planet was remarkably similar to yours.
SULU: Helm answering nicely, Captain.
KIRK: Good.
UHURA: Communications status, Captain.
KIRK: Tormolen's record?
SPOCK: Psychiatric file, personality quotients.
KIRK: Was he trying to kill himself?
SPOCK: It's doubtful he meant to. He was confused, self-tortured.
KIRK: Doesn't sound like the man I know.
SPOCK: His capacity for self-doubt has always been rather high. What puzzles me is what brought it to the surface with so much force.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: His breathing rate is dropping, Doctor.
MCCOY: Compensate with the respirator. Stand by to close. Closing.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What is it?
SULU: Relative gravity increase, sir. Like the planet reached out and yanked at us.
KIRK: Compensate. Compensate.
RILEY: Orbit steady now, sir. May be a little nervous, I guess.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: This shouldn't be happening. This man should be getting stronger. You sure the respirator's functioning properly?
CHAPEL: Yes, Doctor.
MCCOY: Why is this man dying? Hypo.
CHAPEL: He's dead, Doctor.
MCCOY: The wounds were not that severe.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): This is McCoy. Captain Kirk to Sickbay.
KIRK: Uhura, monitor communications. Tell McCoy I'll be there when I can.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Planet breakup is imminent, Captain. Shrinking in size at an increasing rate. As the planet continues to shrink in size, its surface moves away from us.
KIRK: Forcing us to spiral down to maintain the same distance from it.
SPOCK: Exactly. We must be prepared to respond instantly to any sudden change.
KIRK: Engine room from Bridge.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Tie into the helm, Scotty. If we should call for power, we'll want it fast.
SCOTT (voiceover): No problem, sir. You'll have it.
SPOCK: Rate of compaction seems constant.
KIRK: Then I'll go see what the good doctor wants. Keep me informed of any change, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
SULU: Don't know if it's this planet or what happened with Joe. I'm sweating like a bridegroom.
RILEY: Yeah, me too.
SULU: Hey, why don't you come down to the gym with me, Kevin m'lad?
RILEY: Now?
SULU: Why not? Light workout will take the edge off.
RILEY: Sulu, what about. Hey, Sulu, don't be a fool!

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Intestinal damage wasn't that severe. I got to him in plenty of time. That man should still be alive. The only reason he died, Jim, is he didn't want to live. He gave up.
KIRK: That's a supposition, Doctor, not a fact.
MCCOY: Well, that may be. Maybe. I've lost patients before, but not like that. Not Joe's kind. That kind of man doesn't give up.
KIRK: Coincidence? Maybe.
MCCOY: You mean that Joe was down on the planet surface and you're gonna ask me if it's connected.
KIRK: That's exactly what I was going to ask.
MCCOY: Jim, he was decontaminated. He's been medically checked. We've run every test we know for everything we know.
KIRK: That's not good enough.
MCCOY: Well, we're doing everything that's possible.
KIRK: Bones, I want the impossible checked out too.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Why isn't Mister Sulu at this station?
RILEY: Magnetic pull compensated for, sir. Orbit steady.
SPOCK: Take over here, Rand.
RAND: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: You haven't answered my question. Where is Mister Sulu?
RILEY: Have no fear, O'Riley's here. One Irishman is worth ten thousand of you
SPOCK: You're relieved, Mister Riley. Lieutenant Uhura, take over this station.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
RILEY: Now that's what I like. Let the women work too. Universal suffrage.
SPOCK: Report to Sickbay, Mister Riley.
RILEY: Sickbay? Exactly where I was heading, sir.
SPOCK: Security. Mister Riley is headed for Sickbay. See to it he arrives. Captain Kirk to the Bridge.

[Sickbay]
RILEY: Where's Joe?
CHAPEL: Well.
RILEY: He died, didn't he.
CHAPEL: Yes.
RILEY: You know something? You have such lovely eyes, pretty lady.
CHAPEL: I know he was a friend of yours. This must be a terrible shock.
RILEY: You know what Joe's mistake was? He wasn't born an Irishman.

[Corridor]
SULU: Richelieu, beware! Stand. No farther. No escape for you. You either leave this bois bloodied, or with my blood on your swords. Cowards!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Brent, relieve Miss Uhura.
BRENT: Yes, sir.
KIRK: What were their symptoms?
SPOCK: Nonviolent at this stage. Slightly disoriented. Riley seemed rather pleased with himself, as if he were
KIRK: Irrational, or drugged.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: Security, Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Both Sulu and Riley, locate and confine. I want every crewman who comes in contact with them medically checked.
UHURA: Sir, level two, corridor three reports a disturbance. Mister Sulu chasing crewmen with a sword.
KIRK: Put Security on it.
SPOCK: Fascinating. A pattern is developing. First, Tormolen. Hidden personality traits being forced to the surface. Then Riley, who fancies himself a descendant of Irish kings, and now Sulu, who is at heart a swashbuckler out of your 18th century.
KIRK: Present condition of Psi 2000.
SPOCK: Gravity pull increasing. We've shifted to two percent and should stabilize our position.
KIRK: Helmsman, stabilize position.
LESLIE: Helm is not answering to control.
KIRK: Warp us out of here.
LESLIE: No response from engines, sir.
KIRK: Impulse power then. Blast us out of this orbit.
LESLIE: Impulse engines also dead, sir.
SPOCK: Engine room, we need power!
KIRK: Mister Scott, acknowledge. Our controls are dead. Take her.
SULU: Richelieu, at last.
KIRK: Sulu, put that put that thing away.
SULU: For honor, Queen, and France!
UHURA: Sulu.
SULU: Ah.
UHURA: Sulu, give me that.
SULU: I'll protect you, fair maiden.
UHURA: Sorry, neither.
SULU: Foul Richelieu.
KIRK: I'd like you to teach me that sometime.
SPOCK: Take D'Artagnon here to Sickbay.
KIRK: Scotty, we need power. Engine room, acknowledge!
RILEY (voiceover): You rang, sir?
KIRK: Who's this?

[Engineering]
RILEY: This is Captain Kevin Thomas Riley of the starship Enterprise.

[Bridge]
RILEY (voiceover): And who is this?
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. Get out of the engine room, navigator. Where's Mister Scott?
RILEY (voiceover): I've relieved Mister Scott of his duties. Now, attention, cooks. This is your captain speaking. I would like double portions of ice cream for the entire crew.
KIRK: Clear that tube, will you?
UHURA: Yes, sir.
RILEY (voiceover): And now, your captain will render an ancient Irish favorite. I'll take you home again Kathleen
SPOCK: Captain. At our present rate of descent, we have less than twenty minutes before we enter planet atmosphere.
KIRK: And burn up. I know, Mister Spock.
RILEY (voiceover): Wild and wide to where your heart Captain's Log, stardate 1704.4. Ship out of control, spiraling down towards planet Psi 2000. We have nineteen minutes of life left without engine power or helm control.

[Corridor outside Engineering]
KIRK: How did Riley get in there?
SCOTT: He ran in, said you wanted us on the Bridge.
KIRK: He's cut off both helm and power.
SCOTT: And he shut the door behind us and locked off the mechanism.
KIRK: Can't you get to the auxiliary?
SCOTT: I can't. He's hooked everything through the main panel in there. Get up to my office and pull the plans for this bulkhead. The only way to get that door open is to cut through these wall circuits here.

[Engineering]
RILEY: The roses all have left your cheeks. I've watched them fade away and die

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Status reports, all sections.
UHURA: Mister Spock, a fight in the aft wardroom. Security reports incidents among the crewmen are increasing.
SPOCK: Go to Alert Baker two. Seal off main sections.
UHURA: All decks, alert system B two. Repeat, go to alert condition Baker two. Seal off all main sections. Stand by.
SPOCK: We're going to seal off, Captain, if we can minimize the spread of whatever this is.
KIRK: Continue the alert, Lieutenant.
UHURA: I can't, sir. He's cut off the alert channels.

[Engineering]
RILEY: Lieutenant Uhura,

[Bridge]
RILEY (voiceover): You've interrupted my song. I'm sorry, but there'll be no ice cream for you tonight.
KIRK: Cut him off.
UHURA: I can't, sir. There's no way to do it.
RILEY (voiceover): Attention, crew. This is Captain Riley. There will be a formal dance in the bowling alley at nineteen hundred hours tonight.
SPOCK: No way, Captain. He controls the main power panels. He can override any channel from down there. Seventeen minutes left, sir.
MCCOY: Sickbay to Bridge.
KIRK: Can you tie me in to the Sickbay?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: I'm getting you, Jim. Look, can you keep this beast level? I've got Sulu tranquilized and we're running tests on him.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): So far there's nothing unusual in his bloodstream. Body functions seem normal.
KIRK: Riley's the immediate problem, Doctor. Is there any way, anything you can do to snap him out of it?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Negative, until I can get a little farther on these tests.

[Bridge]
RILEY (voiceover): This is Captain Riley. Crew, I have some additional orders.

[Engineering]
RILEY: In the future, all female crew members will wear their hair loosely, about their shoulders.

[Bridge]
RILEY (voiceover): And use restraint in putting on your makeup. Women, women should not look made up. And now, crew, I will render Kathleen one more time!
KIRK: Please, not again.

[Engineering]
RILEY: I'll take you home again, Kathleen I've watched them fade away and die.

[Corridor]
SCOTT: I've set the jumpers up there. Stand by 'til I give you a signal.

[Engineering]
RILEY: And tears bedim your loving eyes. Oh,

[Corridor outside Engineering]
RILEY (voiceover): I will take you home Kathleen.
SCOTT: Engineering to Bridge. Try your helm. You'll have enough power to keep her stabilized. Here, let's have a look at that.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sixteen minutes left, Captain. We've stabilized, but still spiraling down.
UHURA: Emergency signal, Captain. Both decks four and five. Fights and disorders.
KIRK: Get me Sickbay.
UHURA: I have no intercom for Sickbay. He keeps switching channels on me.
KIRK: See what you can do to help Doctor McCoy. Better check Scotty first. Move him faster. He's got to get through that bulkhead.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Crewman, report to the lab!
MOODY: I'll take you home again Janice
SPOCK: What's going on?
RAND: Mister Spock, I'm trying to get to the Bridge and this crewman won't let me by.
SPOCK: Crewman, stand aside.
MOODY: Oh, yes, sir. I'll take you home again, Janice
RAND: Spock!

[Corridor outside Engineering]
SPOCK: Message from the captain.
SCOTT: Tell him I'm doing my best. If I cut through the wrong circuits
SPOCK: We have fourteen minutes left.
SCOTT: Even if we were under a full-scale attack I couldn't move any faster, not and maintain a safety factor.
SPOCK: At the rate you're proceeding, calculations show that you'll take a minute and a half more than we have left. You can't afford a safety factor.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Biopsy lab. Biopsy, where's my report? Biopsy, come in! Harrison, where's my report? I'm going to the lab.
CHAPEL: Sir?
MCCOY: Yes?
CHAPEL: The tranquilizer's wearing off.
MCCOY: Oh, good. I'll need him conscious now. Continue to examine him on circuits K one and three.
CHAPEL: Of course, Doctor.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Get him out of here.
RAND: I would have gotten here sooner, sir but Crewman Moody stopped me in the hallway.
KIRK: Take the helm.
RAND: Sir?
KIRK: Take the helm!
RAND: Yes, sir.
RILEY (voiceover): Kathleen. And now, crew, one more time!
KIRK: At least try cutting him off!
UHURA: Sir, if I could cut him off, don't you think I
RILEY (voiceover): I'll take you home again Kathleen
UHURA: Yes, sir. I'll keep trying.
KIRK: Sorry.
RILEY (voiceover): Across the ocean wild and wide
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engine room.
KIRK: We've got twelve minutes left. It'll take at least two or three of them to get the engines up to power now.
SCOTT (voiceover): Then we'll make it, sir, if all goes right.
KIRK: Call me when you've cut through. I want to be there. Kirk out.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Nurse? Where is Doctor McCoy?
CHAPEL: He's gone to the lab.
SPOCK: Lab. Lab, respond please. Spock here. Lab!
CHAPEL: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: What is it, Nurse?
CHAPEL: Mister Spock, the men from Vulcan treat their women strangely. At least, people say that, but you're part human too. I know you don't, you couldn't, hurt me, would you? I'm in love with you, Mister Spock. You, the human Mister Spock, the Vulcan Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Nurse, you should
CHAPEL: Christine, please. I see things, how honest you are. I know how you feel. You hide it, but you do have feeling. Oh, how we must hurt you, torture you.
SPOCK: I'm in control of my emotions.
CHAPEL: The others believe that. I don't. I love you. I don't know why, but I love you. I do love you just as you are. Oh, I love you.
SPOCK: I'm sorry.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain is en route to Engineering, Mister Spock. Can you take the bridge? Acknowledge.
SPOCK: I am sorry.
CHAPEL: Christine.
SPOCK: Christine.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Sickbay. Is Mister Spock there?

[Corridor]
UHURA (voiceover): Mister Spock, would you please acknowledge?

[Corridor outside Engineering]
RILEY (voiceover): I will take you home Kathleen
SCOTT: Almost ready, sir.
RILEY (voiceover): To where your heart will feel no pain. When the fields are fresh and green. I'll take you to your home
SCOTT: - Ready, sir.
KIRK: Follow me through. Put your phasers on stun. Don't fire unless he's armed. Go.

[Engineering]
RILEY: I'll take. No dance tonight.
KIRK: Get him out of here.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: I'm in control of my emotions. Control of my emotions. I am an officer. An officer. My duty. My duty is, is. My duty is to, to. Too late. I'm sorry. To. Two, four, six. Six. Six times six.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Scotty, we haven't got much time left.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Entering planet's outer atmosphere, sir.
SCOTT: Captain.
KIRK: What is it?
SCOTT: He's turned the engines off. Completely cold. It will take thirty minutes to regenerate them.
UHURA (voiceover): Ship's outer skin is beginning to heat, Captain. Orbit plot shows we have about eight minutes left.
KIRK: Scotty!
SCOTT: I can't change the laws of physics. I've got to have thirty minutes. Captain's Log, supplemental. The Enterprise, spiraling down out of control. Ship's outer skin heating rapidly due to friction with planet atmosphere.
SCOTT: Maybe twenty two, twenty three minutes.
KIRK: Scotty, we've got six.
SCOTT: Captain, you can't mix matter and antimatter cold. We'd go up in the biggest explosion since
KIRK: We can balance our engines into a controlled implosion.
SCOTT: That's only a theory. It's never been done.
KIRK: Bridge, have you found Mister Spock yet?
SCOTT: If you wanted to chance odds of ten thousand to one, maybe, assuming we had a row of computers working weeks on the right formula.
UHURA: Mister Spock is not on the Bridge, Captain.

[Bridge]
SULU: I was on the Bridge. Hey Doc, what am I doing here?
MCCOY: McCoy to Bio. We've isolated it. Start preparing serum.
HARRISON (voiceover): What, Doctor?
MCCOY: It's water. Somehow on this planet, water's changed to a complex chain of molecules.
HARRISON (voiceover): What's that, Doctor?
MCCOY: That's how we missed it. It passed from man to man through perspiration. Once in the bloodstream, it acts like alcohol, depresses the centers of judgment, self-control. Now get someone to the lab. Tell them the serum works, and start preparing more.
SULU: Doc, will you let me out of here? I'm all right.
MCCOY: Release him.

[Briefing room]
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineers, man your stations. Engine rooms, report. Cycling station, report. This will be an emergency restart of engines.
KIRK: Where have you been? What happened?
SPOCK: My mother. I could never tell her I loved her.
KIRK: We've got four minutes, maybe five.
SPOCK: An Earth woman, living on a planet where love, emotion, is bad taste.
KIRK: We've got to risk a full-power start. The engines were shut off. No time to regenerate them. Do you hear me? We've got to risk a full-power start!
SPOCK: I respected my father, our customs. I was ashamed of my Earth blood. Jim, when I feel friendship for you, I'm ashamed.
KIRK: You've got to hear me! We need a formula. We've got to risk implosion!
SPOCK: t's never been done! Understand, Jim. I've spent a whole lifetime learning to hide my feelings.
KIRK: We've got to risk implosion. It's our only chance.
SPOCK: It's never been done.
KIRK: Don't tell me that again, Science Officer! It's a theory. It's possible. We may go up into the biggest ball of fire since the last sun in these parts exploded, but we've got to take that one in ten thousand chance!
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. Engineer asked, did you find
KIRK: Yes, I found Mister Spock! I'm talking to Mister Spock, do you understand?
UHURA: Yes, sir. Three and a half minutes left, Captain.
KIRK: I've got it, the disease. Love. You're better off without it, and I'm better off without mine. This vessel, I give, she takes. She won't permit me my life. I've got to live hers.
SPOCK: Jim.
KIRK: I have a beautiful yeoman. Have you noticed her, Mister Spock? You're allowed to notice her. The Captain's not permitted
SPOCK: Jim, there is an intermix formula.
KIRK: Now I know why it's called she.
SPOCK: It's never been tested. It's a theoretical relationship between time and antimatter.
KIRK: Flesh woman to touch, to hold. A beach to walk on. A few days, no braid on my shoulder.
SCOTT: Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, help.
SPOCK: Stand by to intermix. I'll call the formulae in from the Bridge.
UHURA (voiceover): Entering upper stratosphere, Captain. Skin temperature now twenty one hundred seventy degrees.
KIRK: I've got to hang on. Tell them. Clear the corridors, the turbo lift. Hurry. Never lose you. Never.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Engine room. We're set. Hyperbolic course.
BRENT: Direction, sir?
KIRK: Direction. Direction. It doesn't matter. The way we came.
SULU: Course laid in, sir.

[Engineering]
SPOCK: Fuel temperature.
SCOTT: Level.

[Bridge]
KIRK: No beach to walk on.
RAND: Sir?

[Engineering]
SPOCK: Raise antimatter eight and forty degrees.
SCOTT: That'll take four minutes.
SPOCK: We haven't the time. We'll have to risk it. Bridge, we're ready.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Engage.
SPOCK: Are you all right, Jim?
KIRK: Are you?
MCCOY: We found a cure. We're over that part of it.
SPOCK: Obviously, we were successful. The engines imploded.
SULU: Captain, my velocity gage is off the scale.
SPOCK: Engine power went off the scale as well. We're now traveling faster than is possible for normal space.
KIRK: Checked elapsed time, Mister Sulu.
SULU: My chronometer's running backwards, sir.
KIRK: Time warp. We're going backward in time. Helm, begin reversing power. Slowly.
SULU: Helm answering, sir. Power reversing.
SPOCK: We're back to normal time, Captain.
KIRK: Engines ahead. Warp one.
SULU: Warp one, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: The time warp. What did it do to us?
SPOCK: We've regressed in time seventy one hours. It is now three days ago, Captain. We have three days to live over again.
KIRK: Not those last three days.
SPOCK: This does open some intriguing prospects, Captain. Since the formula worked, we can go back in time, to any planet, any era.
KIRK: We may risk it someday, Mister Spock. Resume course to our next destination, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Course laid in, sir.
KIRK: Steady as she goes.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: All right, Chief, begin materialization. Captain Ramart, I'm Captain Kirk.
RAMART: This is my navigator Tom Nellis.
KIRK: How do you do?
NELLIS: How do you do?
RAMART: And this is our young castaway Charlie, Charlie Evans. His dossier.
KIRK: Mister Evans. We've heard a great deal about you. Welcome aboard.
RAMART: Wonderful boy, Charlie. Its been an honor having him aboard.
NELLIS: Why, it's been a great pleasure. The things that he's learned in the last
RAMART: Absolutely. To think this boy spent practically his whole life alone on that planet. Everyone killed, just a few microtapes to learn from.
CHARLIE: How many humans like me on this ship?
RAMART: Like a whole city in space, Charlie. Over four hundred in the crew of a starship, aren't there, Captain?
KIRK: Four hundred and twenty eight, to be exact. Is there anything we can do for you, Captain? Medical supplies, provisions?
CHARLIE: Hundreds. All human, like me. That's exciting. Is that the right word?
NELLIS: That's perfect. It's the exact word.
RAMART: You see. We'd like to keep Charlie with us, but with his closest living relatives on Colony Five and your vessel going that way, why
CHARLIE: I'd like to see your ship now. All of it. The people and everything.
KIRK: You keep interrupting, Mister Evans. That's considered wrong.
CHARLIE: I'm sorry.
KIRK: We have a large supply of entertainment tapes, gentlemen.
RAMART: No, we've a tight schedule to make, Captain. Just twenty of us, we're making out fine.
KIRK: This must be a space first. A transport ship that doesn't need anything?
RAMART: Nothing.
KIRK: Not even Sarian brandy?
RAMART: We're fine, thank you. Pleasant journey, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you.
KIRK: Yeoman Rand, this is Charles Evans. Show him to his quarters and drop his records off at Doctor McCoy's office, if you will.
RAND: Yes, sir. Come with me, please.
CHARLIE: Are you a girl? Is that a girl?
KIRK: That's a girl. Captain's Log, star date 1533.7. We have taken aboard an unusual passenger for transport to Colony Alpha Five. Charles Evans, the sole survivor of a transport crash fourteen years ago. The child, alone from age three, has not only survived, but has grown to intelligent, healthy adolescence.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Tell me. The ship's supply of food concentrates couldn't have lasted fourteen years.
CHARLIE: After that I found other things to eat, just growing around.
MCCOY: And you learned to talk by just listening to the ship's tapes?
CHARLIE: The memory banks still worked. They talked to me, and I talked back.
MCCOY: You're four-oh.
CHARLIE: Four?
MCCOY: Four-oh. One hundred percent. Sound of wind and limb.
CHARLIE: That, that Captain. Kirk?
MCCOY: Yeah.
CHARLIE: Why does he call me Mister Evans?
MCCOY: Because that's your name.
CHARLIE: He's not, well, he isn't like Captain Ramart.
MCCOY: Well, no. Captain Kirk is one of a kind, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Do you like me?
MCCOY: Why not?
CHARLIE: Some, the other ship, they didn't like me. I tried. I'm trying to make people like me. I want them to like me.
MCCOY: Most seventeen year olds do. Come on, let's go. I'll show you to your quarters.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN 1: Hey, I'll put the equipment away. See you in the rec room, huh?
CREWMAN 2: You got a deal, friend.
CREWMAN 1: All right. Hello.
CHARLIE: I brought you a present.
RAND: Oh, thank you. I really appreciate it, but, but I have to go. I'm on duty.
CHARLIE: Do you like that kind?
RAND: Yes, I, it's my favorite. Where did you get it? They don't have any in the ship's stores.
CHARLIE: It's a present.
RAND: I know, but where did? Gee, I'm late, Charlie. I really have to go.
CHARLIE: Can't you stay and talk a little while?
RAND: Look, I'm off duty at fourteen hundred. Why don't you join me in recreation room six, deck three.
CHARLIE: You got a deal, friend.
RAND: Charlie!
CHARLIE: I thought. Don't be angry. I didn't, I wanted.
RAND: Charlie, you, you, you just don't go around slapping girls on the. It's okay, but er, just don't do it again.
CHARLIE: Don't be angry.
RAND: Look, why don't you tell Captain Kirk or Doctor McCoy what you did. They'll explain it to you. Okay?
CHARLIE: I will.
RAND: Okay.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: But tell me, what reason would he have to lie if there are Thasians?
SPOCK: That is a very intriguing question. Scanners show no disturbances in this quadrant, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock is working out
UHURA: Excuse me, Captain. Status report.
KIRK: Thank you. He's working out a training program for Charlie Evans. Earth history, his own background, that sort of thing. I'd like you to give him the necessary medical orientation on the problems of, um, er, adolescence.
MCCOY: Well, don't you think it'd be better for a strong father image like you? He already looks up to you.
KIRK: The job is yours, Bones. Flattery will get you nowhere.
SPOCK: Doctor, didn't the boy make any reference at all to Thasians?
KIRK: Do you believe the legend, Mister Spock, that Thasians still exist on that planet in some form?
SPOCK: Charlie's very existence proves in fact there must be some intelligent form of life on Thasus. He could not possibly have survived alone. The ship's food concentrates would have been exhausted in a year or so.
MCCOY: By which time he would have been eating fruits, vegetables.
SPOCK: Probes of Thasus indicate very little edible plant life.
MCCOY: And probes have been known to be wrong, Spock.
MCCOY: Doctor, are you speaking scientifically or emotionally?
KIRK: Gentlemen, the fact is the boy is here and he's alive and he needs our help.
MCCOY: And he needs a guide and he needs a father image, Jim.
KIRK: Hmm. I'll depend on your astute abilities to supply him with that, or find him one.

[Recreation room]
UHURA: I'm sorry. I did it again, didn't I.
UHURA: Oh, on the starship Enterprise There's someone who's in Satan's guise Whose devil ears and devil eyes Could rip your heart from you. At first, his look could hypnotize And then his touch would barbarise His alien love could victimize And rip your heart from you. And that's why female astronauts, Oh, very female astronauts Wait terrified and overwrought To find what he will do. Oh, girls in space, be wary, be wary, be wary, Girls in space, be wary. We know not what he'll do.
RAND: One more time!
UHURA: Now from a planet out in space, there comes a lad, not commonplace. A-seeking out his first embrace. He's saving it for you. Oh, Charlie's our new darling, our darling, our darling. Charlie's our new darling. We know not what he'll do.
CHARLIE: Want to see something? Turn them over.
RAND: Well, how did you do that?
CHARLIE: Oh, I can do a lot of card tricks. One of the men on the Antares showed me.
RAND: I don't believe this!

[Corridor]
KIRK: On Earth today, it's Thanksgiving. If the crew has to eat synthetic meat loaf, I want it to look like turkey. Charlie.
CHARLIE: Captain? I'm supposed to ask you something. Why shouldn't I? I don't know how to explain it.
KIRK: Say it right out, Charlie. That usually works.
CHARLIE: Well, in the corridor I saw. When Janice, when Yeoman Rand was. I did that to her. She didn't like it. She said you'd explain it to me.
KIRK: Me. I see. Well, um, er, there are things you can do with a lady, er, Charlie, that you er. There's no right way to hit a woman. I mean, man to man is one thing, but, er, man and woman, er, it's, er, it's, er. Well it's, er, another thing. Do you understand?
CHARLIE: I don't know.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Excuse me. Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Ramart of the Antares is on D channel.
KIRK: I'm on my way to the Bridge now.
CHARLIE: Can I come with you?
KIRK: I don't think so, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I won't get in the way.
KIRK: Okay.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Can you boost your power, Antares. We're barely reading your transmission.
RAMART (voiceover): We're at full output, Enterprise. I must speak to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here, Captain Ramart.
RAMART (voiceover): Captain, we're just barely in range. I've got to warn
KIRK: Re-establish contact.
UHURA: They're not transmitting.
KIRK: Keep trying.
CHARLIE: It wasn't very well constructed.
KIRK: Sweep the area of the Antares transmission with our probe scanners, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: You think something happened to the Antares, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I don't know.
SPOCK: Picking up some debris on our scanners, Captain.
KIRK: What about the Antares?
SPOCK: The debris is what's left of the Antares.
CHEF (voiceover): Captain Kirk from ship's Galley.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEF (voiceover): Sir, I put meat loaf in the ovens. There's turkeys in there now. Real turkeys.
KIRK: Chief, have you been Captain's Log, star date 1535.8. UESPA headquarters notified of the mysterious loss of science probe vessel Antares.

[Recreation room]
SPOCK: Your mind is not on the game, Captain. Check. The Antares?
KIRK: A survey ship with twenty men aboard lost. No reason. Obviously, Captain Ramart was not aware of any trouble. I can't figure it.
SPOCK: My own concern is more immediate. The boy.
KIRK: I can usually follow you, Mister Spock, but this time?
SPOCK: He seemed to know what happened to the Antares before we did.
KIRK: I'd call it a pretty long reach for evidence, Mister Spock. Come in, Charlie.
SPOCK: And again, check.
KIRK: Checkmate.
SPOCK: Your illogical approach to chess does have its advantages on occasion, Captain.
KIRK: I prefer to call it inspired.
SPOCK: As you wish. At any rate, the game is yours.
KIRK: You play chess, Charlie?
CHARLIE: Oh, I, I watched them play on the Antares. Can I try?
KIRK: I place you in the hands of our chess master.
SPOCK: The principles of three-dimensional chess are basically mathematic, Charlie. You put the white here and the black on the secondary level.
CHARLIE: I know what it is. Let's play.
SPOCK: Very well. That was a mistake, Charlie.
CHARLIE: No, it wasn't.
SPOCK: Checkmate.
CHARLIE: No, it isn't.
SPOCK: If you'll excuse me.

[Corridor]
RAND: Oh, Charlie. I was looking for you. I'd like you to meet Tina Lawton, Yeoman Third Class. Charlie Evans.
TINA: Hello, Charlie.
RAND: I thought you might enjoy meeting someone your own age.
CHARLIE: Can I talk to you, alone.
RAND: Charlie, Tina's
TINA: Excuse me. I must be wanted somewhere.
RAND: That was, that was rude and completely uncalled-for.
CHARLIE: But I don't need her. I want to talk to you.
RAND: That's no excuse. You'd better learn that right now. You have to live with people, Charlie. You're not alone anymore.
CHARLIE: But she's not as. She doesn't. She's not the same. Not like you. She's, she's just a girl. You're, you smell like a girl. All the other girls on the ship they, they look just like Tina. You're the only one who looks like you. You can understand, can't you? You know about being with somebody? Wanting to be? If I had the whole universe I'd give it to you. When I see you, I feel like I'm hungry all over. Hungry. Do you know how that feels?

[Bridge]
KIRK: What?
RAND: I wasn't sure I should, er, talk to you about this.
KIRK: Charlie's a seventeen year old boy.
RAND: Exactly, and he's
KIRK: I talked to him about the swat.
RAND: It's not that. Captain, I've seen the look before, and if something isn't done, sooner or later I'm going to have to hurt him. Tell him to leave me alone, and that wouldn't be good for him right now. You see, I'm his first crush, his first love, and his first
KIRK: Yes, Yeoman, I'll talk to him. I'll look into it.
RAND: Thank you, sir.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Come in, Charlie. Er, Charlie. Charlie, do you know anything about this chess piece? Did you notice anything peculiar in them when we were using them this afternoon?
CHARLIE: No, sir. Is that all?
KIRK: Er, no. No, no. Sit down. Charlie, being seventeen is more than how many years you've lived. It's a whole other thing. Doctor McCoy could probably explain the biological conditions. Well, let's, let's use a specific. Yeoman Rand is a woman.
CHARLIE: Oh, I won't hit her like that anymore.
KIRK: No, there's more to it than that.
CHARLIE: Everything I do or say is wrong. I'm in the way, I don't know the rules, and when I learn something and try to do it, suddenly I'm wrong!
KIRK: Now wait, wait.
CHARLIE: I don't know what I am or what I'm supposed to be, or even who. I don't know why I hurt so much inside all the time.
KIRK: You'll live, believe me. There's nothing wrong with you that hasn't gone wrong with every other human male since the model first came up.
CHARLIE: What if you care for someone? What do you do?
KIRK: You go slow. You be gentle. I mean, it's not a one-way street, you know, how you feel and that's all. It's how the girl feels, too. Don't press, Charlie. If the girl feels anything for you at all, you'll know it. Do you understand?
CHARLIE: You don't think Janice. You. She could love me!
KIRK: She's not the girl, Charlie. The years are wrong, for one thing, and there are other things.
CHARLIE: She can.
KIRK: No, Charlie.
CHARLIE: She is.
KIRK: No.
CHARLIE: But if I did what you said! If I was gentle!
KIRK: Charlie, there are a million things in this universe you can have and there are a million things you can't have. It's no fun facing that, but that's the way things are.
CHARLIE: Then what am I going to do?
KIRK: Hang on tight and survive. Everybody does.
CHARLIE: You don't.
KIRK: Everybody, Charlie. Me, too.
CHARLIE: I'm trying, but I don't know how.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): You asked to be notified when we were to make our course adjustments, sir.
KIRK: Ask Mister Spock to see to it. Charlie, come on with me.

[Gymnasium]
KIRK: You've got to slap the floor to absorb the energy when you fall. Go ahead, try it. Like everything else, it takes practice, Charlie. Try again. Good. That's much better. Here, now I'll show you a shoulder roll. Try that.
CHARLIE: I don't want to do that.
KIRK: Well, it makes it hard to teach you
CHARLIE: I don't want to do that.
KIRK: All right, Charlie. Lesson's over for today.
CHARLIE: You were going to teach me how to fight.
KIRK: You have to learn to protect yourself in a fall before I do that. It's more than teaching you to defend yourself. Charlie, I want you to learn. Charlie? Hey, Sam, let me borrow you for a couple easy throws, all right?
SAM: Right.
KIRK: Watch this, Charlie. That wasn't so bad, was it? Now I'll throw him. Here we go, Sam.
CHARLIE: That looks hard.
SAM: Oh.
KIRK: Come on, Charlie. Try it. Attaboy. Let's go.
CHARLIE: Oh!
KIRK: That wasn't so bad, was it?
CHARLIE: Don't laugh at me.
KIRK: Cool off.
CHARLIE: Don't laugh at me!
KIRK: Charlie.
CHARLIE: He shouldn't have done that. It's not nice to laugh at people.
KIRK: What happened to him, Charlie?
CHARLIE: He's gone.
KIRK: That's no answer.
CHARLIE: He's gone! I didn't mean to do that. He made me do it! He laughed at me.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge.
KIRK: Kirk here. Two men from security, on the double.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Affirmative.
CHARLIE: What are you going to do to me?
KIRK: I'm confining you to quarters. I want you to stay there.
CHARLIE: I won't let them hurt me. I'll make them go away, too.
KIRK: They won't hurt you, Charlie. They'll take you to your quarters, Charlie. Go with them.
CHARLIE: No!
KIRK: Go to your quarters.
CHARLIE: He was going to hurt me.
KIRK: Go to your quarters or I'll pick you up and carry you there.
CHARLIE: I won't let you.
KIRK: That's your choice, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I won't let them hurt me.
KIRK: They won't hurt you.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Security reports that all phaser weapons have disappeared. Shall I repeat, Captain?
KIRK: No, I heard you. Have Doctor McCoy and Mister Spock meet me in the Briefing room.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Thasians have been referred to in our records as having the power to transmute objects or render substances invisible. It has generally been regarded as legend, but Charlie does seems to possess this same power.
KIRK: What are chances that Charlie's not an Earthling, that he's a Thasian?
MCCOY: No, I don't think so, not unless they're exactly like Earthlings. The development of his fingers and toes exactly matches the present development of mans on Earth.
SPOCK: Agreed.
KIRK: Well, whatever he is, we have some idea of the power he has. I know what I saw him do in the gymnasium.
MCCOY: Considering the effect a normal adolescent has on a home, Charlie with the power he has
KIRK: Short-tempered, because he doesn't understand. He needs, he wants. Nothing happens fast enough.
SPOCK: The probability is he's responsible for the destruction of the Antares, which would indicate a total disregard for human life.
KIRK: He doesn't understand what life is. He's a boy.
MCCOY: Well, what do we do with this boy, Jim? How do we keep him caged up?
KIRK: It goes even further than that, Doctor. We can't take him with us to Earth Colony Five. Can you imagine what he'd do in an open, normal environment. I've talked with him, listened. He's a boy in a man's body, trying to be an adult with the adolescence in him getting in the way.
SPOCK: And with a weapon in him which could destroy you or anyone, anywhere on this ship.
MCCOY: Well, for the moment he's stopped. You're an authority he respects, Jim.
SPOCK: Agreed. The struggle must remain between you and him. Should any of us interfere
CHARLIE: You wanted to ask me something, he said.
KIRK: Are you responsible for what happened to the Antares, Charlie?
CHARLIE: Why?
KIRK: Answer me.
CHARLIE: Yes. There was a warped baffle-plate on the shield of their energy pile. I made it go away. It would've blown up anyway. Well they weren't nice to me! They wanted to get rid of me. They don't now.
KIRK: What about us, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I don't know.
SPOCK: We're in the hands of an adolescent.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant, raise Colony Five. I want to speak directly to the governor.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Navigator, lay a course away from Colony Five. Buy me some time.
NAVIGATOR: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Spock, get the doctor up here on the double. How bad is it?
UHURA: I think it's all right, sir. Sir, there's no reason for that panel to cross-circuit like that. I checked it over myself not fifteen minutes ago.
NAVIGATOR: Captain! I can't feed any course co-ordinates into the panel, sir. It rejects the course change.
PILOT: Helm doesn't respond either, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you getting any readings on your instruments?
SPOCK: Yes, sir. There's a Tyger, tyger, burning bright in the forest of the night.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I'm trying to Saturn rings around my head, down a road that's Martian red.
CHARLIE: You're trying to change course, Captain. You can't do that. I want to get to Colony Five as soon as we can.
KIRK: Release the transmitter.
CHARLIE: You don't need all that subspace chatter.
MCCOY: What's going on here? Spock calls me to the Bridge and goes into some kind of poetry.
KIRK: See to her, Doctor.
SPOCK: Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered, weak and weary.
CHARLIE: Very nice, Mister Ears. Oh, I can make him do anything, whirl around, laugh, anything.
KIRK: That's enough, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Don't you think he's funny? I think he's funny.
KIRK: Leave my crew alone.
SPOCK: Jim, he'll soon reach a point where he won't back down.
KIRK: I know.

[Corridor]
TINA: Charlie, what's wrong?

[Rand's quarters]
CHARLIE: I have something for you. Pink is your favorite, isn't it?
RAND: You don't walk into a room without knocking.
CHARLIE: Don't ever lock your door on me again, Janice. I love you.
RAND: I'll lock it when I please. What is it you want, anyway?
CHARLIE: You. I only want to be nice to you. I can give you anything. Just, just tell me.
RAND: I want you to get out.

[Bridge]
CHARLIE (voiceover): But I only want to be nice to you.
RAND (voiceover): Get out, Charlie.
KIRK: Spock.
RAND (voiceover): I can't make it any plainer than that.

[Rand's quarters]
CHARLIE: I love you.
RAND: You don't know what the word means.
CHARLIE: Then show me.
RAND: No!
RAND: Charlie!
CHARLIE: Why did she do that? I loved her, but she wasn't nice at all. What you did wasn't nice either, but I still need you, Captain. The Enterprise isn't quite like the Antares. Running the Antares was easy. You have to be nice. All right?
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: My legs. They're broken.
KIRK: Let him go, too, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Why?
KIRK: Because I'm telling you to. Because you need me to run the ship, and I need him.
CHARLIE: If you try to hurt me again, I'll make a lot of people go away.
KIRK: And what about Yeoman Janice? Is she dead? Gone? Destroyed?
CHARLIE: I won't tell you. Growing up isn't so much. I'm not a man, and I can do anything! You can't.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: I'll activate the force field myself. You can return to your section.
CHARLIE: He had a mean look. I had to freeze him. I like happy looks. Aren't you coming in?
CHARLIE: That wasn't nice. You'll be sorry. You wait, you'll see, you'll be sorry you did that. You will.
CHARLIE: No. No laughing!

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain Kirk, my instruments show we're receiving a message on subspace frequency three, ship-to-ship. I can't hear it, sir.
KIRK: Are you creating that message, Charlie, or you're blocking one that's coming in.
CHARLIE: It's my game, Captain. You have to find out. Like you said, that's how the game's played. You can have it now. I've locked on course for Colony Five again.
KIRK: I've waited long enough. I'm going to take him on.
MCCOY: You don't have any special immunity. Not anymore. Pushed far enough, he'd send you off to oblivion, too.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Out of the question.
KIRK: Wait a minute. Does Charlie? Now, wait, Spock, has he done away with anybody since he took over?
SPOCK: Not so far as we know.
KIRK: Maybe he can't. Could be he's overreached himself. It's a big ship. He's taken full control. If we could tax his power, turn on every device on the ship, every circuit, every light, all of it, and while he's fighting that, if I could distract him, maybe you could tranquilize him, keep him under until we reach Colony Five.
MCCOY: Risky, Jim.
KIRK: If we don't try, Doctor, he'll get rid of us anyway. There's no choice, gentlemen, none at all.
CHARLIE: I can make you all go away anytime I want to.
KIRK: Get out of my chair, Charlie, and get out of it now.
CHARLIE: I've got your ship, Captain.
KIRK: Maybe, Charlie, but I don't think you can handle any more. I think you've reached your limit and can't take on one more thing, but you're going to have to.
CHARLIE: I could've sent you away before, but I didn't.
KIRK: You're going to have to take me on.
CHARLIE: Don't make me do it now.
KIRK: You've got my ship, and I want it back. I want my crew back, whole, if I have to break your neck to do it!
CHARLIE: Don't push me. Sorry. I'm sorry but. Stop it. I said stop it!
SPOCK: Captain, the navigation console is clear now. The ship is answering the helm.
UHURA: Sir, something off our starboard bow. The message says they're from Thasus.
CHARLIE: Oh.
RAND: Captain, how did I?
KIRK: It's all right, Yeoman.
SPOCK: Sensors show there something's there, Captain. Deflectors indicate no solid substance.
CHARLIE: No! Oh, no, please, don't let them take me. I can't live with them anymore. You're my friends. You said you were my friends, remember? When I came aboard! Please, I want to go home. Take me home.
THASIAN: I have taken my form from centuries ago, so that I may communicate with you. We did not realize until too late that the boy had gone, and we are saddened that his escape cost the lives of the first ship. We could not help them, but we have returned your people and your ship to you. Everything is as it was.
CHARLIE: I won't do it again. Please, I'll be good. I won't ever do it again. I'm sorry about the Antares. I'm sorry! When I came aboard! Please, I want to go with you. Help me!
KIRK: The boy belongs with his own kind.
THASIAN: That would be impossible.
KIRK: With training, we can teach him to live in our society. If he can be taught not to use his power
THASIAN: We gave him the power so he could live. He will use it, always, and he would destroy you and your kind, or you would be forced to destroy him to save yourselves.
KIRK: Is there nothing you can do?
THASIAN: We offer him life, and we will take care of him. Come, Charles.
CHARLIE: Oh, please, don't let them take me. I can't even touch them! Janice, they can't feel. Not like you! They don't love! Please, I want to stay.
UHURA: Charlie's back on board the Thasian ship, sir. They signal they're leaving.
KIRK: It's all right, Yeoman. It's all over now.

[Ship's Chapel]
SCOTT: The ceremony will be carried on all viewing screens, sir.
KIRK: Good.
MCCOY: There was a call for you from the Bridge.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Still no answer from Earth Outpost number two, Captain, and now number three's gone silent.
KIRK: Maintain course to outpost four. Keep me informed. Kirk out.
KIRK: Since the days of the first wooden vessels, all shipmasters have had one happy privilege. That of uniting two people in the bonds of matrimony. We are gathered here today with you, Angela Martine, and you, Robert Tomlinson, in the sight of your fellows, in accordance with our laws and our many beliefs so that you may pledge your
SULU (voiceover): Alert! Alert! All decks alert! Alert! Alert! Captain to the Bridge. All decks alert.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Earth Outpost four reports they're under attack. A space vessel, identity unknown.
KIRK: Full ahead. All decks, condition red.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): All decks, condition red. All decks, condition red. Captain's Log, stardate 1709.2. Patrolling outposts guarding the neutral zone between planets Romulus and Remus and the rest of the galaxy, received emergency call from outpost 4. The U.S.S. Enterprise is moving to investigate and assist.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Outpost 4 reported under attack, sir. Then message terminates.
SPOCK: Verified, Captain.
SULU: Our speed is now maximum, sir.
STILES: Position, eight minutes from Outpost four at this velocity, sir.
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT: I've talked to my engine room, sir. We'll get more speed out of her.
KIRK: Did Outpost 4 give anything at all on the attacking vessel, Lieutenant?
UHURA: No identification, sir.
STILES: There can't be much doubt who's attacking, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, put this star sector on our screen. Now show our position. Signal this to all decks, Lieutenant.
UHURA: All decks standing by, sir.

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): This is the Captain speaking. In our next action, we can risk neither miscalculation nor error

[Bridge]
KIRK: By any man aboard. Listen carefully. Science Officer.
SPOCK: Referring to the map on your screens, you will note beyond the moving position of our vessel, a line of Earth outpost stations. Constructed on asteroids, they monitor the Neutral Zone established by treaty after the Earth-Romulan conflict a century ago.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK (voiceover): As you may recall from your histories, this conflict was fought,

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): By our standards today, with primitive atomic weapons and in primitive space vessels

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Which allowed no quarter, no captives. Nor was there even ship-to-ship visual communication. Therefore, no human, Romulan, or ally has ever seen the other. Earth believes the Romulans to be warlike, cruel, treacherous, and only the Romulans know what they think of Earth. The treaty, set by sub-space radio, established this Neutral Zone, entry into which by either side, would constitute an act of war. The treaty has been unbroken since that time. Captain.
KIRK: What you do not know and must be told is that my command orders on this subject are precise and inviolable. No act, no provocation

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Will be considered sufficient reason to violate the zone. We may defend ourselves,

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): But if necessary to avoid interspace war,

[Bridge]
KIRK: Both these outposts and this vessel will be considered expendable. Captain out.
STILES: We know Outpost four has been attacked, sir, so if we intercept Romulans now
KIRK: After a whole century, what will a Romulan ship look like, Mister Stiles? I doubt they'll radio and identify themselves.
STILES: You'll know, sir. They're painted like a giant bird-of-prey.
KIRK: I had no idea that history was your specialty.
STILES: Family history. There was a Captain Stiles was in the space service then. Two Commanders and several junior officers. All lost in that war, sir.
KIRK: Their war, Mister Stiles. Not yours. Don't forget it.
STILES: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Outpost two coming into sensor range, Captain.
KIRK: Outpost 2 was the first to go silent, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Yes, Captain, then Outpost three an hour later.
SPOCK: Sweeping the area of Outpost two. Sensor reading indefinite. Double-checking Outpost three. I read dust and debris. Both Earth outposts gone, and the asteroids they were constructed on, pulverized.
KIRK: Open a channel to our nearest command base. Quarter hour reports on our position and status.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Call battle stations, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Battle stations. All hands to battle stations. Battle stations. Battle stations. All decks acknowledge. All decks acknowledge, sir. All stations show green.
KIRK: Energize main phasers, Mister Styles. All weapons to full power.
STILES: All weapons to full power. Phaser control room.

[Phaser Control]
STILES (voiceover): Energize. Acknowledge.
ANGELA: Phaser control acknowledging. All weapons energizing to full.
ROBERT: Happy wedding day, almost.
ANGELA: You won't get off my hook this easily. I'm going to marry you, Mister, battle or phaser weapons notwithstanding.
ROBERT: Well, meanwhile, temporarily at least, I am still your superior officer. So get with it, Mister.
TEC 1: Port weapons show ready.
TEC 2: Starboard and midship weapons show ready.
ANGELA: Acknowledge. All weapons batteries ready.

[Bridge]
STILES: Outpost four now five minutes away, sir.
SPOCK: And showing on my sensors, Captain. At least it's still there.
UHURA: Sir, regaining contact with Outpost four. Switching to speakers.
HANSEN (voiceover): Outpost four. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Commander Hansen.
KIRK: Kirk here. We're minutes away, Hansen. What's your status?
HANSEN (voiceover): Outposts two, three, and eight are gone. Unknown weapon. Completely destroyed, even though we were alerted. Had our deflector shield on maximum. Hit by enormous power. First attack blew our deflector shield. If they hit us again with our deflector shield gone. Do you read me, Enterprise?
KIRK: Confirm what hit you, Hansen. What vessel? Identity?
HANSEN (voiceover): Space vessel, only glimpse of.
KIRK: Can you locate the intruder for us?
HANSEN (voiceover): Negative. It seems to have disappeared somehow. I have you on my screen now. Switching to visual.
KIRK: Tie us in.
UHURA: Tied in, sir.
HANSEN (screen): Enterprise, can you see it? My command post here. We're a mile deep on an asteroid. Almost solid iron. And even through our deflectors, it did this. Can you see?
KIRK: Affirmative. You're visual, Hansen. What do you have on the intruder?
HANSEN (screen): No identification. No answer to our challenge. Only a glimpse of it. Then they fired something at us, some form of high-energy plasma. Fantastic power. And then the whole vessel disappeared. But it's out there somewhere. Our sensors show that much. Enterprise, something coming on our viewing screen, coming at us fast.
KIRK: Lock us onto your screen.
HANSEN (screen): Switching. Can you see it, Enterprise? Can you see it? It's becoming visible in the center of my screen.
KIRK: Do you have phaser capacity? We're still out of range.
HANSEN: Negative. Phasers gone. Weapons crew dead.
KIRK: Make a challenge. Warn that ship off.
UHURA: Trying to, sir. They don't acknowledge.
SPOCK: Outpost four disintegrated, Captain.
KIRK: Position of the intruder, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Disappeared. Interesting how they became visible for just a moment.
KIRK: When they opened fire. Perhaps necessary when they use their weapon.
SPOCK: I have a blip on the motion sensor. Could be the intruder.
KIRK: Go to full magnification.
SULU: Screen is on full mag, sir.
KIRK: I don't see anything. I can't understand it.
SPOCK: Invisibility is theoretically possible, Captain, with selective bending of light. But the power cost is enormous. They may have solved that problem.
UHURA: Continuing to challenge, sir. Still no response.
KIRK: Diskontinue. Contact remaining outposts. Have them signal us any sightings or sensor readings in their area.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Blip has changed its heading. And in a very leisurely maneuver. They may not be aware of us.
KIRK: Their invisibility screen may work both ways. With that kind of power consumption, they may not be able to see us.
SPOCK: His heading is now one eleven mark fourteen. The exact heading a Romulan would take, Jim, for the Neutral Zone and home.
KIRK: Parallel course.
STILES: Don't you mean interception course, sir?
KIRK: Negative. You and Mister Sulu will match its course and speed with the object on our sensors exactly, move for move. If he has sensors, I want him to think we're a reflection, an echo. Under no circumstances are you to cross into the Neutral Zone without my direct orders.
SULU: Acknowledged, sir.
KIRK: Cancel battle stations. All decks, standby alert.
SULU: Cancel battle stations.
STILES: Captain, may I respectfully remind the Captain what has happened? The Romulans have crossed the Neutral Zone, attacked our outposts, killed our men.
KIRK: Mister Stiles.
STILES: Add to that the fact it was a sneak attack.
KIRK: Mister Stiles, are you questioning my orders?
STILES: Negative, sir. I'm pointing our that we could have Romulan spies aboard this ship.
SULU: I agree, sir. Respectfully recommend all decks maintain security alert.
KIRK: Very well. All decks, security alert.
SULU: Security alert, sir.
UHURA: Picking up communication. It's from their ship.
KIRK: Pipe it in.
UHURA: Sounds like code, sir.
SPOCK: I have a fix on it, Captain. I believe I can lock on it, get a picture of their Bridge.
KIRK: Put it on the screen.
KIRK: Decoding?
UHURA: Cryptography is working on it, sir.
STILES: Give it to Spock.
KIRK: I didn't quite get that, Mister Stiles.
STILES: Nothing, sir.
KIRK: Repeat it.
STILES: I was suggesting that Mister Spock could probably translate it for you, sir.
KIRK: I assume you're complimenting Mister Spock on his ability to decode.
STILES: I'm not sure, sir.
KIRK: Well, here's one thing you can be sure of, Mister. Leave any bigotry in your quarters. There's no room for it on the Bridge. Do I make myself clear?
STILES: You do, sir.
UHURA: Transmission has been cut off. I made a tape of it, sir.
SPOCK: Very well.
SULU: Something visual ahead, Captain, at extreme range. He's changing course, sir.
KIRK: Stay with him, helm.
SULU: Turning, sir.

[Romulan ship]
COMMANDER: We grow visible. Attend the cloaking system.
ROMULAN: It consumes much power, Commander. With no enemy to concern us.
COMMANDER: That Earth outpost called to an Earth vessel. Now it follows us.
ROMULAN: Which neither retreats nor grows nearer. It turns as we turn. Commander, it is our judgment we run from a reflection.
COMMANDER: Perhaps so, but my judgment prevails.
ROMULAN: Cloaking system on, sir.
COMMANDER: It is good we approach the Neutral Zone. Not too soon for me to see the stars of home. I know they are following.
CENTURION: If an Earth ship, why does he not attack?
COMMANDER: First study the enemy, seek weakness. If I were their commander, that is what I would do.
DECIUS: My Commander sent for Decius.
COMMANDER: A message was dispatched. You've broken the rule of silence.
DECIUS: Only in code, Commander. To inform our Praetor of this glorious mission.
COMMANDER: Your carelessness might have ended this glorious mission. You're reduced two steps in rank. Return to post.
CENTURION: Take care, Commander. He has friends, and friends of his kind mean power. And power is danger.
COMMANDER: Danger and I are old companions.
CENTURION: We've seen a hundred campaigns together, and still I do not understand you.
COMMANDER: I think you do. No need to tell you what happens when we reach home with proof of the Earthmen's weakness. And we will have proof. The Earth commander will follow. He must. When he attacks, we will destroy him. Our gift to the homeland, another war.
CENTURION: If we are the strong, isn't this the signal for war?
COMMANDER: Must it always be so? How many comrades have we lost in this way?
CENTURION: Our portion, Commander, is obedience.
COMMANDER: Obedience. Duty. Death and more death. Soon even enough for the Praetor's taste. Centurion, I find myself wishing for destruction before we can return. Worry not. Like you, I am too well-trained in my duty to permit it. Continue evasive maneuvers. Now, back to the first course.

[Bridge]
SULU: They're turning, sir. We're staying with them.
SPOCK: Steady on one eleven mark fourteen. Back on their original course, Captain, toward the Neutral Zone.
KIRK: What's our position, navigator?
STILES: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in less than an hour, sir. Assuming, of course, that we don't turn back.
SCOTT (voiceover): We now have aboard debris from Outpost four, Captain.
KIRK: Bring it to the briefing room. Are you ready, gentlemen?

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: From the outpost's protective shield. Cast rodinium. This is the hardest substance known to our science.
SPOCK: Lab theorizes an enveloping energy plasma forcing an implosion.
KIRK: Comments?
SPOCK: Obviously, their weaponry is superior to ours, and they have a practical invisibility screen.
MCCOY: You're diskussing tactics. Do you realize what this really comes down to? Millions and millions of lives hanging on what this vessel does.
SPOCK: Or on what this vessel fails to do, Doctor.
KIRK: Yes, well gentlemen, the question still remains. Can we engage them with a reasonable possibility of victory?
SCOTT: No question. Their power is simple impulse.
KIRK: Meaning we can outrun them?
STILES: To be used in chasing them or retreating, sir?
KIRK: Go ahead, Mister Styles. I called this session for opinions.
STILES: We have to attack immediately.
KIRK: Explain.
STILES: They're still on our side of the Neutral Zone. There would be no doubt they broke the treaty.
SULU: Attack, without a visible target? How do we aim our phasers?
STILES: Aim with sensors. Not accurate, but if we blanket them
SULU: And hope for a lucky shot before they zero in on us?
STILES: And if we don't? Once back, they'll report that we saw their weapons and ran.
SULU: And if they could report they destroyed us?
STILES: These are Romulans! You run away from them and you guarantee war. They'll be back. Not just one ship but with everything they've got. You know that, Mister Science Officer. You've the expert on these people, always left out that one point. Why? I'm very interested in why.
KIRK: Sit down, Mister.
SPOCK: I agree. Attack.
KIRK: Are you suggesting we fight to prevent a fight?
MCCOY: Based on what? Memories of a war over a century ago? On theories about a people we've never even met face to face?
STILES: We know what they look like.
SPOCK: Yes, indeed we do, Mister Stiles. And if Romulans are an offshoot of my Vulcan blood, and I think this likely, then attack becomes even more imperative.
MCCOY: War is never imperative, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: It is for them, Doctor. Vulcan, like Earth, had its aggressive colonizing period. Savage, even by Earth standards. And if Romulans retain this martial philosophy, then weakness is something we dare not show.
SPOCK: Do you want a galactic war on your conscience?
KIRK: Captain to Bridge.
UHURA (voiceover): This is Uhura, Captain.
KIRK: What's our position?
UHURA (voiceover): Course unchanged, sir. Estimating treaty boundary in twenty one minutes.
KIRK: Are you continuing to broadcast tactical reports?
UHURA (voiceover): Affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: And at this distance?
UHURA (voiceover): Approximately three hours before receiving a reply to our first message.
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Check our course ahead, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: A comet, magnitude seven, dead ahead, and the intruder changing course toward it.
KIRK: Comet Icarus four. Composition?
SPOCK: Quite ordinary. An ionized mass, a trail of frozen vapor particles.
KIRK: And when an object passes through it, even an invisible object?
SPOCK: It leaves a visible trail.
KIRK: Our chance, gentlemen. Prepare to attack. All hands, battle stations. I hope we won't need your services, Bones.
MCCOY: Amen to that. We're taking a big gamble, Jim.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Battle status?
SULU: All stations manned, Captain.
STILES: Phaser weapons energized. Set for proximity blast.
SPOCK: Intruder now bearing directly for comet's tail.
KIRK: Plot his exact point of entry, Mister Stiles.
STILES: Computed. On the board, sir.
KIRK: The moment he begins entering the comet's tail, he becomes visible. End run, gentlemen. We'll swing around the other side and catch him at that moment.
SULU: Acknowledged, Captain.
SPOCK: He's maintaining that bearing, Captain.
KIRK: Let's get him, Mister Sulu.

[Romulan ship]
COMMANDER: How pleasing to the eye it is. Behold a marvel in the darkness.
CENTURION: You spoke of entrapment.
COMMANDER: Its many particles will obscure their sensing device, Centurion.
ROMULAN: We enter it, Commander.
COMMANDER: Once fully obscured, we will turn suddenly back upon our adversary.
ROMULAN: At last the screen is clear, Commander.
COMMANDER: Clear?
ROMULAN: Our reflection no longer follows us.
COMMANDER: Escape maneuver one, quickly!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: We're losing sensor contact, Captain.
KIRK: Steady as she goes. Phaser crews ready?
SULU: Phaser crew signal ready, sir.
KIRK: He'll only be visible for a moment. Stand by.
SULU: Sir, nothing in
KIRK: At the last moment he must have guessed our move. Hard to starboard, helm!
SULU: Hard to starboard.
KIRK: He did exactly what I would have done. I won't underestimate him again. Now, fire blind. Lay down a pattern.
STILES: Traverse pattern. All phasers fire.

[Phaser control]
ROBERT: Phaser one, fire.
CREWMAN: Phaser one, fire.
ROBERT: Phaser two, fire.
CREWMAN: Phaser two, fire.

[Romulan ship]
COMMANDER: Divert all power to weapons.

[Bridge]
SULU: Phaser overload. Control circuit burnout.
SPOCK: It'll take time to correct, sir.
SULU: Captain, are they surrendering?
KIRK: Full astern! Emergency warp speed!
KIRK: Do we have emergency warp?
SULU: Full power, sir. It's still overtaking us. If we can get one phaser working, sir, one shot might detonate it.
KIRK: Navigation?
STILES: Estimate it'll overtake us in two minutes, sir.
KIRK: Phasers, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Impossible, Captain.
KIRK: Feed this to the space recorder and jettison immediately.
RAND: Captain, should I continue log entry?
KIRK: Yeoman. Affirmative. Continue log entries.
RAND: Yes, sir.
SULU: Ten seconds to impact. Captain, It's dissipating, sir.
STILES: It must have a range limit.
SULU: Five, four, three, two, one. Impact!
KIRK: Limited range.
SPOCK: Phasers operational, Captain. Intruder bearing one eleven mark fourteen.
KIRK: Back to his old course.
SPOCK: He may think we're destroyed, Captain.
KIRK: I wouldn't make that assumption. I don't think their Captain will either.
SPOCK: Intruder holding steady. Course one eleven mark fourteen.
KIRK: Same as before, Mister Sulu. Stay with him.

[Romulan ship]
ROMULAN: Commander, the reflection returns.
COMMANDER: Activate our cloak.
ROMULAN: Commander, our fuel runs low.
COMMANDER: Quickly!
DECIUS: The Earth vessel? Impossible.
ROMULAN: It moves as we move.
COMMANDER: Its commander is not one to repeat a mistake.

[Bridge]
STILES: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in one minute, Captain.
MCCOY: Do we violate the treaty, Captain?
SPOCK: They did, Doctor.
MCCOY: Once inside, they can claim we did. A set-up. They want war, we furnish the provocation.
SPOCK: We're still on our side, Captain.
KIRK: Let's get them while we are. Before we enter the Neutral Zone. Full ahead, Mister Sulu. Maximum warp.
SULU: Ahead, sir. Maximum.
KIRK: Phasers, stand by.
STILES: Sir, at this distance?
KIRK: We know their Achilles heel, Mister Stiles. Their weapon takes all their energy. They must become visible in order to launch it.
STILES: A phaser hit at this distance would be the wildest stroke of luck.
KIRK: I'm aware of that, Mister Stiles. Are phasers ready?
STILES: Phasers show ready, sir.

[Romulan ship]
ROMULAN: Commander!
COMMANDER: Evasive action. The Earth ship again.

[Bridge]
STILES: Twenty seconds to Neutral Zone, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, inform Command base, In my opinion, no option. On my responsibility, we are proceeding into the Neutral Zone. Steady as we go, Mister Sulu. Continue firing.

[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Commander, they stay within range. I will tend to the centurion.
COMMANDER: No need. The Centurion is dead.
DECIUS: Why don't we fire, Commander?
COMMANDER: No. No, he's shrewd, this starship commander. He tries to make us waste energy. He has estimated we have only enough. It is time. All debris into disposal tubes.
DECIUS: Yes, Commander.
COMMANDER: The body of the Centurion, too. Forgive me, my old friend, but I must use all my experience now to get home.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Motion sensor signal stopped.
KIRK: Cease fire.
SULU: Debris scatter ahead, sir. We've hit him.
SPOCK: Vessel wreckage. Metal molds, conduit, plastoform and a body, Captain. However.
KIRK: However?
SPOCK: Insufficient mass, sir.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: Simple debris. Not a vessel, a trick.
KIRK: Go to sensor probes.
SPOCK: Nothing, sir. No motion out there at all. We've lost them, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 1709.6. We are at the Neutral Zone. Have lost contact with the intruder. No reaction on our motion sensors but believe the Romulan vessel to be somewhere close by. With all engines and systems shut down, the Enterprise is also playing the silent waiting game in hope of regaining contact.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, I must make further repairs on the transfer coil. It's giving out again.
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock, work quietly.

[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Now twenty full cycles, Commander. Still no sign. I say he's been fooled. He must have gone on.
COMMANDER: Shh. He is there, somewhere. I feel it.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Now motionless for nine hours, forty seven minutes.

[Kirk's quarters]
RAND: Can I get you something from the galley, sir? Coffee, at least?
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman. Bring it to the Bridge. I'll be there in a moment.
RAND: Yes, sir.
KIRK: I wish I were on a long sea voyage somewhere. Not too much deck tennis, no frantic dancing, and no responsibility. Why me? I look around that Bridge, and I see the men waiting for me to make the next move. And Bones, what if I'm wrong?
MCCOY: Captain, I
KIRK: No, I don't really expect an answer.
MCCOY: But I've got one. Something I seldom say to a customer, Jim. In this galaxy, there's a mathematical probability of three million Earth-type planets. And in all of the universe, three million million galaxies like this. And in all of that, and perhaps more, only one of each of us. Don't destroy the one named Kirk.

[Bridge]
STILES: What?
KIRK: It's all right. It's all right.

[Romulan ship]
ROMULAN: A signal, Commander.
COMMANDER: We have him. Move toward him.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Power on. Reverse course. He'll try to slip under us.
SULU: Lateral power, sir.
STILES: Coming around, sir.
KIRK: Phasers, fire.
STILES: Phasers, fire.

[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: How, Commander. How?
COMMANDER: He's a sorcerer, that one. He reads the thoughts in my brain. Our fuel supply all but gone and he stays out of reach.
DECIUS: We are beaten. Can it be true? The Praetor's finest and proudest flagship beaten.
COMMANDER: Perhaps we can yet save your Praetor's pride for him. More debris into the tubes. Decius, do we have the old-style nuclear warheads aboard?
DECIUS: Yes Commander, but only for self-destruction.
COMMANDER: Place one with the debris. Proximity fuse.
DECIUS: Yes, Commander. At once.

[Bridge]
SULU: More wreckage, sir, scattering across our path.
KIRK: Cease fire.
SPOCK: Debris on our scanners.
KIRK: Analysis, quickly.
SPOCK: Same type as before, sir, except, one metal-cased object!
KIRK: Helm, hard over. Phasers, fire point-blank.
STILES: Phasers, fire!

[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Glorious. Glorious.
COMMANDER: Now we go home.
DECIUS: They're at our mercy. Commander, I remind you of your duty.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Captain to Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here.
KIRK: Casualties?
MCCOY (voiceover): Twenty two so far. Mainly radiation burns, mostly from the ship's outer areas. Could have been much, much worse, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor. Report, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Nuclear device of some kind, sir. Our phasers detonated it less than one hundred meters away.
KIRK: Ship damage?
SPOCK: Mainly overloads and circuit burnouts.
KIRK: Weapons status?
SCOTT (voiceover): We've only the forward phaser room, Captain.
KIRK: Fully operable, Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Yes, sir. But Specialist Tomlinson is manning it alone. No standby crew available.
STILES: Sir, my first assignment was in weapons control.
KIRK: Go. Lieutenant Uhura, take over navigation.
UHURA: Yes, Captain.
SPOCK: We have engine power now, Captain, if you'd like to move off and make repairs.
KIRK: Maybe we can pull them back to our side of the Neutral Zone. Hold our position. Play dead.

[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Still no sign of movement, Commander.
COMMANDER: We've damaged ourselves. Our fuel reserve is gone.
DECIUS: And it is our duty to crush the Praetor's enemies.
COMMANDER: I do not trust their Captain.
DECIUS: We are in the Neutral Zone. They will not enter. If you refuse, permit me the glory of the kill, Commander.
COMMANDER: We will attack, but on my order.

[Phaser control]
SPOCK: Damage reports, Mister Stiles?
STILES: Negative.
SPOCK: Will you require assistance here?
STILES: This time, we'll handle things without your help, Vulcan.
STILES: Tomlinson!

[Bridge]
SULU: Enemy vessel becoming visible, sir.
KIRK: Forward phasers, stand by. Fire! Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire!

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire!
KIRK (voiceover): Fire!

[Phaser Control]
KIRK: Stiles, can you hear me? Fire! Stiles!

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, prepare to move in on the Romulan vessel. Ship-to-ship, Uhura. Put this on the screen.
UHURA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
KIRK: Captain. Standing by to beam your survivors aboard our ship. Prepare to abandon your vessel.
COMMANDER (screen): No. No, that is not our way. I regret that we meet in this way. You and I are of a kind. In a different reality, I could have called you friend.
KIRK: What purpose will it serve to die?
COMMANDER (screen): We are creatures of duty, Captain. I have lived my life by it. Just one more duty to perform.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Are you all right, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, very well, thank you, Captain.
KIRK: And you, Stiles?
STILES: I'm alive, sir. But I wouldn't be. Mister Spock pulled me out of the phaser room. He saved my life. He risked his life after I
SPOCK: I saved a trained navigator so he could return to duty. I am capable of no other feelings in such matters.
KIRK: How many men did we lose, Bones?
MCCOY: Only one. Tomlinson. The boy who was getting married this morning. His fiancée is at the chapel.
RAND: We finally received an answer from Command base, sir. They say they'll support whatever decision you have to make.

[Ship's Chapel]
KIRK: It never makes any sense. We both have to know that there was a reason.
ANGELA: I'm all right.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN (voiceover): All sections, security check in progress. Report. Forward phaser
KIRK: We're entering standard orbit, Nurse. It won't be much longer.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Forward scanner to Bridge.
KIRK: I understand you gave up a career in bio-research to sign aboard a starship.
CHAPEL: I know he's alive down there, Captain.
CREWMAN 2 (voiceover): Aft scanner to Bridge, Status report, please. Engineering controls
KIRK: It's been five years since his last message.
CHAPEL: Roger's a very determined man. He'd find a way to live.
UHURA: Beginning signals to surface, sir.
KIRK: Put it on all frequencies, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: Ship's record banks show little we don't already know about this planet, Captain. Gravity is one point one of Earth, atmosphere within safety limits.
KIRK: But the surface temperature of that planet is one hundred degrees below zero.
SPOCK: It may have been inhabited once, but the sun in this system has been fading steadily for a half million years. Now, Doctor Korby, often called the Pasteur of archeological medicine. His translation of medical records from the Orion ruins revolutionized our immunization techniques.
KIRK: Required reading at the academy, Mister Spock. I've always wanted to meet him. Do you think there's any chance of him still being alive?
UHURA: I've tried all frequencies, sir. No return signal.
KIRK: Keep trying.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Warp capacity point zero seven and building.
CREWMAN 2 (voiceover): Communicator, we need more lines to the impulse deck.
CHAPEL: His last signal told about finding underground caverns.
KIRK: And since then two expeditions have failed to find him.
UHURA: I've run all frequencies a second time. There's no
KORBY (voiceover): Enterprise, come in, Enterprise. This is Roger Korby. Repeating, this is Doctor Roger Korby. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Doctor Roger Korby standing by.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 2712.4. A signal from planet Exo 3. Doctor Roger Korby has been located, he and part of his expedition remaining alive due to the diskovery of underground ruins Ieft by the former inhabitants of this world.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Enterprise to Korby. We have your co-ordinates pin-pointed. We're preparing to beam down a party. It may interest you that we have aboard this vessel
KORBY (voiceover): I've a rather unusual request, Captain Kirk. Beam down alone, just yourself. We've made diskoveries of such a nature they may require an extraordinary decision from you.
SPOCK: That's an unusual request.
KIRK: The man making it is Doctor Roger Korby.
SPOCK: You're certain you recognize his voice?
CHAPEL: Have you ever been engaged, Mister Spock? Yes, it's Roger.
KIRK: Agreed, Doctor. However, there will be two of us.
CHAPEL: Hello, Roger.
KORBY (voiceover): Christine!
CHAPEL: Yes, Roger.
KORBY (voiceover): Darling, how, Where are you? Yes, yes, by all means, Captain. I, I had no idea, no hope. Darling, are you all right?
CHAPEL: Yes, Roger. Everything's all right now.
KIRK: We're on our way, Doctor. We'll be with you in a moment. Enterprise out.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energize.

[Tunnel entrance]
CHAPEL: He said he'd be waiting.
KIRK: Doctor Korby? Doctor Korby. It's possible we may have hit the wrong entry point. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.
KIRK: Beam down two security men.
SPOCK (voiceover): Any problems, Captain?
KIRK: Some delay in meeting us. Probably nothing at all. Kirk out. Corridors could be quite deep. Getting here may have taken more time than he estimated. Don't worry.
CHAPEL: Thank you.
KIRK: Rayburn, maintain post here.
RAYBURN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Matthews, we'll look for Doctor Korby. Accompany us.
MATHEWS: Yes, sir.

[Tunnels]
KIRK: Is that you, Doctor Korby?
CHAPEL: Doctor Brown! It's Roger's assistant. Brownie, where's Roger?
BROWN: Be careful.
KIRK: Is there a path down there?
BROWN: There's no hope, Captain. It's bottomless. He must have slipped.
KIRK: Any chance of a projection or a ledge?
BROWN: None, Captain. Unfortunate. Terribly unfortunate. Doctor Korby was detained. I came as soon as I could.
KIRK: Not soon enough.
CHAPEL: Brownie, what is it?
BROWN: Explain.
CHAPEL: Don't you recognize me?
BROWN: Christine. You look well. My name is Brown, Doctor Korby's assistant. I presume you are Captain Kirk. He's dead, I assure you. Come, Doctor Korby will be waiting.
KIRK: You do know him well? An old friend?
CHAPEL: I suppose living here for five years.
KIRK: Captain Kirk to Rayburn. Report.
RAYBURN (voiceover): All quiet here at the entry, Captain.

[Tunnel entrance]
RAYBURN: Any problems there, sir?
KIRK (voiceover): We lost Matthews. Apparently an accident. Tell the Enterprise to have a full security party standing by.
RAYBURN: Yes, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): And we'll both report in at hourly intervals. If you and I lose contact, or if he fails to hear from either of us, he's to beam the security party down immediately. Kirk out.

[Tunnels]
BROWN: Doctor Korby has diskovered that as their sun dimmed, the inhabitants of this planet moved underground from an open environment to this dark world. When you were a student of his, Christine, you must have often heard Doctor Korby remark how freedom of movement and choice produced the human spirit. The culture of Exo 3 proved his theory. When they moved from light to darkness, they replaced freedom with a mechanistic culture. Doctor Korby has been able to uncover elements of this culture which will revolutionize the universe when freed from this cavernous environment.

[Korby's study]
ANDREA: I'm Andrea. You must be Christine. I've always thought how beautiful your name is. And you must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. We appreciate you bringing Roger's fiancee to him.
CHAPEL: I don't remember Doctor Korby mentioning an Andrea.
ANDREA: But you are exactly as Roger described you. No wonder he missed you so.
KIRK: Where is Doctor Korby?
KORBY: Here, Captain. I, I've been looking forward to
CHAPEL: Oh, I knew I'd find you.
KORBY: Everything's all right now. Oh, forgive me, Captain. I'm, er, I'm Roger Korby.
KIRK: There's no need to apologize, sir, and certainly no need to introduce yourself.
BROWN: The captain lost a man in the caverns, Doctor.
KORBY: What? How did it happen?
BROWN: The pit near the outer junction. The edge must have given way.
KORBY: I'm terribly sorry, Captain. Perhaps if I'd been there. I know the passages so well.
KIRK: It wasn't your fault. Kirk to Rayburn, report. I'm required to make a security confirmation. When I call my ship, if you list your personnel, cargo requirements, any special needs
KORBY: Captain, I'd much prefer
KIRK: Rayburn, are you receiving?
KORBY: I'd prefer you waited, Captain, please, till I've talked to you.
KIRK: I've lost contact with my guard. I'm required to call my ship.
BROWN: No communications, Captain.
CHAPEL: Roger.
KORBY: I'm sorry. If they should send down more people,
CHAPEL: Roger, that
KORBY: He won't be harmed. I promise you. Isn't it possible there could be things here unknown to you, so terribly important
KIRK: Sir, one man is dead. I've lost contact with the other.
KORBY: Andrea.
KIRK: What are you doing?
KORBY: This is necessary, Captain. You will understand. Andrea.
KIRK: Drop it!

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Enterprise from Captain Kirk. Come in. Do you read?
UHURA: Frequency open, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Contact established with Doctor Korby.
SPOCK: We were becoming concerned, Captain. Your check-in was overdue and since we'd not heard from your security team
KIRK (voiceover): No problem, Mister Spock. Bear with me.

[Korby's study]
RUK (voiceover): We'll return to the ship within forty eight hours. Doctor Korby's records and specimens will require careful packing.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, are you all right? You sound tired.

[Korby's study]
KORBY: If you move or cry out, Ruk may injure you. At least wait until we can talk.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledge, Captain. Is everything all right?
RUK (voiceover): Fine, Mister Spock. Doctor Korby has made some fascinating diskoveries. All under control. Stand by for regular contact. Kirk out.
KORBY: This is not a vain display, Captain. I'm a scientist. You obviously know my reputation. Trust me.
KIRK: Yes, I know your reputation. The whole galaxy knows who you are and what you stand for. That's why all this makes no sense.
KORBY: There's so much you must learn Before you make a final judgment. For example Andrea.
RUK (voiceover): You must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. [Korby's voice] Christine, it's all right now.
KORBY: You see, Captain?
RUK (voiceover): Yes Roger, everything is all right now.
KORBY: That's enough. You are not to mock Christine. You will never harm her.
KIRK: Or disobey an order from her.
KORBY: You will not disobey her orders. Satisfied, Captain Kirk? Both love and trust. Now, give me twenty four hours to convince you.
KIRK: Doctor, do I need to be a prisoner to be convinced?
KORBY: What would your first duty be upon return to your vessel? Report! Do you realize the number of diskoveries lost because of superstition, of ignorance, of a layman's inability to comprehend?
KIRK: A simple layman's question, Doctor. Where is my other crewman? Alive? Dead?
KORBY: Ruk was programd to protect my experiments. The logic of his machine mind saw danger to me.
KIRK: Where is my other crewman?
KORBY: Ruk destroyed them both, totally against my wishes I assure you.
KIRK: He's an android like Brown?
RUK: More complex than Brown. Much superior. I was left here by the old ones.
KORBY: Ruk was still tending the machinery when we arrived here. How many centuries? Even Ruk doesn't know. With his help, ith the records I could find, we built Brown.
KIRK: You've convinced me, Doctor. You've convinced me that you're dangerous.
KORBY: Ruk, no!

[Dining room]
ANDREA: I do not understand. Why are you unhappy? You are with Roger again.
CHAPEL: Where is Captain Kirk?
ANDREA: You are concerned about the captain?
CHAPEL: Yes, I am concerned.
ANDREA: How can you love Roger without trusting him? Why does it bother you when I use the name Roger?
KORBY: Andrea, it's sufficient that it does disturb her. You will call me Doctor Korby from now on, Andrea.
ANDREA: Yes, Doctor Korby. I didn't mean to eavesdrop, darling. As you can see, Captain Kirk is fine. He won't be harmed. The things at stake here simply make it necessary he doesn't send a report to his ship. I need time to explain and demonstrate to him and to you. Now shall we start with Andrea?
CHAPEL: Yes, let's start with Andrea.
ANDREA: I'm like Doctor Brown, an android. Didn't you know?
KORBY: Remarkable, isn't she? Notice the the lifelike pigmentation, the variation in skin tones. The flesh, the flesh has warmth. There's even a pulse, physical sensation.
CHAPEL: How convenient.
KORBY: Christine, you must realize an android's like a computer. It does only what I program. As a trained scientist yourself, you must realize that
CHAPEL: Given a mechanical Doctor Brown, a mechanical geisha would be no more difficult.
KORBY: You think I could love a machine?
CHAPEL: Did you?
KORBY: Andrea's incapable of that. She simply obeys orders. She has no meaning for me. There's no emotional bond. Andrea, kiss Captain Kirk. Now strike him. You see? There's no emotion in it, no emotional involvement. She simply responds to orders. She's a totally logical computer. A thing is not a woman. Now do you understand?
KIRK: If these mechanical things have no feelings and perform only as you program them, then why did Brown try to shoot me? Why did he kill two of my men? There are many things I don't understand, Doctor.
KORBY: I will answer all of your questions now.

[Laboratory]
KORBY: This is how you make an android. Andrea. He's not being harmed, I promise.
CHAPEL: Roger, what's happened to you? When I sat in your class, you wouldn't even dream of harming an insect or an animal. Their life was sacred to you then.
KORBY: Christine, if I'd simply beamed up to their vessel with Brown and the others, I'd have given them objects of curiosity, beginnings of wild stories, foolish theories. Ruk! Watch carefully. Choose, Christine. Which is your captain?
CHAPEL: I don't know. They're exact. I honestly don't know.
KORBY: Synthetic organs are in place. We merely synchronize them with Kirk's autonomic nervous system, duplicating the rhythms of his body. At the same time, we duplicate the mental pattern. Now, physical pattern complete, we now make a mental pattern. Ready for final synaptic fusion. Andrea, stand by for cortex circuits. The android will be so perfect It could even replace the captain. The same memories, the same attitudes, the same abilities. Activate circuits.
KIRK: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear? Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed
KORBY: Complete.
CHAPEL: Are you all right?
KIRK: As far as I know.
KORBY: Now, meet an android.
KIRK2: How do you do, Miss Chapel?

[Dining room]
ANDREA: I am now programd to please you also. Is the food appealing?
CHAPEL: Yes, thank you.
ANDREA: Please sit, Captain.
KIRK2: Thank you. I'm more or less on parole, I understand.
ANDREA: Doctor Korby suggested that you have lunch. He thought you might have a few things to talk about.
CHAPEL: Captain.
KIRK2: I know, I know. I'd hate to be torn between commander and fiancée myself.
CHAPEL: No, I'm not torn. I'm puzzled. I'm worried.
KIRK2: Has he confided in you?
CHAPEL: Nothing he hasn't told you. I know it doesn't make sense. What he's done may seem wrong, but he is Roger Korby, whatever he seems to be doing.
KIRK2: Unless something's gone wrong with his mind.
CHAPEL: No. You're forgetting how well I know him. He's as sane as you or I.
KIRK2: Nurse, if I gave you a direct order to betray him
CHAPEL: Please, don't ask me to make that choice. I'd much rather you push me off the same precipice where Matthews died. Oh, I can't. Please, go ahead and eat.
KIRK2: Androids don't eat, Miss Chapel.
KORBY: He even has your sense of humor.
KIRK: Well, there's one difference between us. I'm hungry.
KIRK2: The difference is your weakness, Captain, not mine.
KORBY: One at a time, gentlemen. Captain?
KIRK: Eating is a pleasure, sir. Unfortunately, one you will never know.
KIRK2: Perhaps, but I will never starve, sir.
KIRK: He's an exact duplicate?
KORBY: In every detail.
KIRK: What about memory? Tell me about Sam.
KIRK2: George Samuel Kirk, your brother. Only you call him Sam.
KIRK: He saw me off on this mission.
KIRK2: Yes, with his wife and three sons.
KIRK: He said he was being transferred to Earth colony two research station.
KIRK2: No, Captain. He said he was continuing his research and that he wanted to be transferred to Earth colony two.
KORBY: You might as well try to outthink a calculating machine.
KIRK: Obviously, I can't, but we do have some interesting differences.
KORBY: Totally unimportant ones. You may leave now. You haven't guessed the rest? Not even you, Christine? What you saw was only a machine, Only half of what I could've accomplished, Do you understand? By continuing the process I could've transferred you, your very consciousness into that android. Your soul, if you wish. All of you. In android form, a human being can have practical immortality. Can you understand what I'm offering mankind?
KIRK: Programming. Different word, but the same old promises made by Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar, Hitler, Ferris, Maltuvis.
KORBY: Can you understand that a human converted to an android can be programd for the better? Can you imagine how life could be improved if we could do away with jealousy, greed, hate?
KIRK: It can also be improved by eliminating love, tenderness, sentiment. The other side of the coin, Doctor.
KORBY: No one need ever die again. No disease, no deformities. why even fear can be programd away, replaced with joy. I'm offering you a pracical heaven, a new paradise, and all I need is your help.
KIRK: All you wanted before was my understanding.
KORBY: I need transportation to a planet colony with proper raw materials. I'm sure there are several good possibilities among your next stops. No diversion from your route. I want no suspicions aroused. I'll begin producing androids carefully, selectively.
KIRK: Yes, yes. No one need know, only to frighten uninformed minds.
KORBY: They must be strongly infiltrated into society before the android existence is revealed. I want no wave of hysteria to destroy what is good and right. You with me, Captain?
KIRK: You've created your own Kirk. Why do you need me?
KORBY: I created him to impress you, not to replace you.
KIRK: I'm impressed, Doctor, but not the way you think! Stand back, Ruk! I'll kill him! Stay back.
KORBY: Ruk, protect!
CHAPEL: Roger, I. Ruk, no!

[Tunnels]
CHAPEL: Ruk, stop! Doctor Korby said you are to obey me! Ruk! Ruk! Ruk, I order you not to harm him!
RUK (voiceover): Captain Kirk, where are you? Captain Kirk! I can help you!
KIRK: Christine, is that you?

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain!

[Bedroom]
SPOCK: Captain, We finished ahead of schedule.
KIRK2: Doctor Korby has considerable cargo to beam aboard. I'll have to go over our destination schedule with him.
SPOCK: You're going back down with the command pack?
KIRK2: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear?
SPOCK: Yes. very well, Captain.
KIRK2: You look upset, Mister Spock. Is everything all right up here?
SPOCK: No problems here, sir.
KIRK2: Good. I'll beam up shortly with Doctor Korby and party.
SPOCK: Security, Spock here. Status of your landing party?
SECURITY (voiceover): Ready and standing by, sir,
SPOCK: Have them meet me in the transporter room after the Captain has beamed down.

[Korby's study]
KIRK2: I looked it over. I think you'll find planet Midas Five an excellent choice.
KORBY: A small colony. Abundant raw materials. You made a good beginning, Captain.
KIRK2: Thank you. I felt quite at home on the Enterprise.

[Bedroom]
KIRK: Andrea, kiss me.
ANDREA: No. Not programd for you.
KIRK: What's the matter, Andrea? Confused?
ANDREA: No.
KIRK: Emotion, Ruk? You disapprove of Miss Chapel's orders to save my life?
RUK: To maintain your existence would be illogical.
KIRK: Why? Can't your memory banks solve a simple equation like that? What happened to the old ones, Ruk?
RUK: So long ago.
KIRK: Is it possible they built their machines too well, gave them pride and a desire to survive? Machines that wanted logic and order and found that frustrated by the illogical emotional creatures that built them?
RUK: Yes, the old ones. The ones who made us. They grew fearful of us. They began to turn us off.
KIRK: And isn't it Korby who's creating the same danger to you all over again? Unlike you, we humans are full of unpredictable emotions that logic cannot solve.
RUK: Yes. Yes, it had been so long ago, I had forgotten. The old ones here. The ones who made us, yes. Yes, it is still in my memory banks. It became necessary to destroy them. You are inconsistent. You cannot be programd. You are inferior.
KIRK: And Korby?
RUK: You came from the outside. You bring disorder here.
KIRK: The danger to you is Korby.
RUK: I was programd by Korby. I cannot harm him.
KIRK: The old ones programd you, too, but it became possible to destroy them.
RUK: That was the equation! Existence! Survival must cancel out programming.
KIRK: That's it, Ruk! Logic! You can't protect someone who's trying to destroy you!
KORBY: Ruk, I would like
RUK: You brought him among us. You brought the inferior ones. We had cleansed ourselves of them. Now you bring the evil back!
KORBY: Ruk, stop! Your programming. I had no choice.

[Corridor]
KIRK: You were a man with respect for all things alive. How can I explain the change in you? If I was to tell Earth I was in your hands, to tell them what has become

[Korby's study]
KORBY: It's still me, Christine. Roger. I'm in here. You can't imagine how it was. I was frozen, dying. My legs were gone. I was, I had only my brain between life and death. This can be repaired easier than another man can set a broken finger. I'm still the same as I was before, Christine, perhaps even better.
CHAPEL: Are you, Roger?
KORBY: Andrea.
ANDREA (voiceover): Yes, Doctor.
KORBY: There's someone in the outer junction.
KIRK: Spock. He must've got my message.
ANDREA (voiceover): I will find Ruk.
CHAPEL: But he'll never find us in this maze.
KORBY: Ruk has been shut off.

[Laboratory]
KORBY (voiceover): Get a weapon. Deal with it. Protect.

[Corridor outside laboratory]
ANDREA: I will kiss you.
KIRK2: No.
ANDREA: You, you will not?
KIRK2: It is illogical.

[Korby's study]
KORBY: I'm the same! A direct transfer. All of me, human, rational, and without a flaw.
ANDREA: He freed himself, and I destroyed, destroyed him. I am not programd for alarms. I listened to your instructions. They were mis-stated.
KIRK: She killed the android, Korby, the same way you killed Ruk. Is this your perfect world, your flawless beings killing off one another? Aren't you doing exactly what you hate most in humans, killing with no more concern than when you turn off a light?
KORBY: I'm not a computer. Test me. Ask me to solve any, equate, transmit. Christine, Christine, let me prove myself. Does this make such a difference?
CHAPEL: Don't you see, Roger? Everything you've done has proved it isn't you.
KORBY: I am Roger Korby!
KIRK: Then prove it. Give me that phaser gun. If there's any human left in you, give it to me.
KORBY: No. You will never understand. I constructed a perfect being, tested it, proved it. Proved it. Proved it?
KIRK: Andrea, give me the weapon.
ANDREA: No. Protect. Protect. To love you. To, to kiss you.
KORBY: No. You cannot love. You're not human.
ANDREA: Love you. Kiss.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain Kirk!
KIRK: In here, Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, are you all right? Nurse? Where's Doctor Korby?
KIRK: Doctor Korby was never here.

[Bridge]
CHAPEL: Thank you for letting me make the decision, Captain. I'm quite certain I'm doing the right thing.
KIRK: She's staying with the ship. Something bothering you, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Frankly, I was rather dismayed by your use of the term half-breed, Captain. You must admit it is an unsophisticated expression.
KIRK: I'll remember that Mister Spock, the next time I find myself in a similar situation. Steady as we go, helm.

[Transporter room]
BERKELEY: Ready to beam down. Energize. Energize.
KIRK: Having trouble, gentlemen?
BERKELEY: I just don't understand the problem, sir.
KIRK: You're beaming cargo down to a penal colony, Mister Berkeley.
BERKELEY: Their security force field, sir.
KIRK: U.S.S. Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
WOMAN (voiceover): Rehab colony. Come in.
KIRK: Request opening in your force field for beaming down of cargo.
WOMAN (voiceover): Enterprise, affirmative. Our security cover is now open.
KIRK: Energize. Any incoming cargo?
BERKELEY: Just one item, sir. Some research material bound for the Central Bureau of Penology at Stockholm.
WOMAN (voiceover): Tantalus cargo ready to beam up.
KIRK: Oh, Mister Berkeley, you might refamiliarize yourself with the manual on penal colony procedures.
BERKELEY: Immediately, sir.
KIRK: I think you can take the time to lock this up first.
BERKELEY: I'll get a vault assignment.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 2715.1. Exchanged cargo with penal colony on Tantalus V. I've departed without going ashore.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I would like to have met Doctor Adams. Have you ever been to a penal colony since they started following his theories?
MCCOY: A cage is a cage, Jim.
KIRK: You're behind the times, Bones. They're more like resort colonies now.
UHURA: Message, Captain. Switching to speaker.
WOMAN (voiceover): Tantalus colony to Enterprise. We are unable to locate one of our inmates. This is a potentially violent case. Possibly hidden in the box we beamed up to you. Repeat, unable to locate one of our inmates. This is a potentially violent case.
KIRK: Enterprise acknowledging. Stand by. Security alert three.
UHURA: Security alert, condition three. All sections go to alert condition three. We may have an intruder aboard.

[Corridor]
UHURA (voiceover): Repeat, all sections to alert condition three. Intruder aboard.
SECURITY: Hey, you from Engineering! Bridge. Section C, deck fourteen.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, section C deck fourteen, reporting trouble. Someone in Engineering uniform.
KIRK: Security control, this is the Bridge. Come in.
SPOCK: I have them, Captain. Closing off deck fourteen, search in progress.

[Corridor]
UHURA (voiceover): Security alert, condition three. Approximately six foot four male, early forties. Approach with caution. This man's extremely dangerous.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Repeat, approach with extreme caution. Bridge out.
SPOCK: Negative in the deck area, Captain. He may have gotten out. Expanding search to adjoining sections.
KIRK: Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
ADAMS (voiceover): Tantalus colony. Adams here.
KIRK: Doctor Adams? This is Captain Kirk. It appears we may have an inmate of yours aboard the ship.
UHURA: Transporter crewman found unconscious, Captain. Cargo case open and empty.
KIRK: Make that definite, Doctor. He's aboard.
ADAMS (voiceover): Terribly sorry, Captain. I take all the blame. Let me repeat, he's clever as well as extremely violent. Take all possible precautions.
KIRK: We'll keep you posted, Doctor. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Interesting. Your Earth people glorify organized violence for forty centuries, but you imprison those who employ it privately.
MCCOY: And, of course, your people found an answer.
SPOCK: We disposed of emotion, Doctor. Where there is no emotion there is no motive for violence.
GELDER: Where's the captain? Which one of you is the captain?
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk.
GELDER: My name is Van Gelder. I want asylum.
KIRK: At gunpoint?
GELDER: I want your promise first, your word that you won't take me back there, to Tantalus.
KIRK: No promises. Give me the weapon.
GELDER: No! No. No, I'm not going back! I'll disable your vessel first. You choose, Captain. I'll destroy your control panel.
KIRK: Take him to Sickbay. Reverse course. Head back for Tantalus colony.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Abnormal, of course, but it's not schizophrenia, tissue damage, or any condition I'm acquainted with, Jim. And you know after getting him here, it took almost a triple dose of sedative to put him under.
KIRK: Your report said he was quite talkative.
MCCOY: But not very informative. He claimed one thing, then he seemed to forget, and then he'd start to claim something else, but always with just the ring of truth in it. I'd sure like to study this one, Jim.
KIRK: Not our problem, Bones.
GELDER: You smart, button-pushing brass hat. Wash your hands of it. Is that your system? You're both quite sure of yourselves, aren't you? Quite expert. Take him back. Let someone else worry about him.
KIRK: What did you say your name was?
GELDER: My name? My name is Simon Van Gelder. I was the director of, director at the Tantalus colony.
MCCOY: You see what I mean?
GELDER: I was a graduate of, of. I was assistant to Doctor. I knew. I knew, but they've erased it.
MCCOY: Erased?
GELDER: Edited, adjusted, subverted me, but I won't forget! I won't forget! You, you're so blind ignorant. You believe I belong back there, don't you? Dead or alive. Well, I won't let you take me back. I'm not going! I'll die first! Do you hear? I'm not going! No! No! No.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Estimated arrival at Tantalus?
SPOCK: Fifty seven minutes, thirty seconds, Captain.
KIRK: What's so fascinating?
SPOCK: An identification tape from our ship's library on Doctor Simon Van Gelder.
KIRK: Doctor Van Gelder?
SPOCK: Doctor Van Gelder, Captain. No mistake. There's a full ID tape on him.
KIRK: Committed to Tantalus colony when?
SPOCK: Assigned there six months ago as Doctor Adams' associate.
KIRK: Ship to surface, Tantalus colony.
UHURA: Hailing frequency's open, sir.
KIRK: U.S.S. Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
WOMAN (voiceover): Tantalus.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. I'd like to speak to Doctor Adams.
WOMAN (voiceover): Stand by, Enterprise.
ADAMS (voiceover): Captain Kirk, Doctor Adams here.
KIRK: Doctor Adams, regarding your escaped man
ADAMS (voiceover): Is Doctor Van Gelder all right? And your people, no injuries?
KIRK: No casualties, sir. This man is Doctor Simon Van Gelder?
ADAMS (voiceover): Yes, of course. You're certain he's all right? We've been very concerned. In the violent state he's in
KIRK: No harm to him, sir. We thought you might enlighten us as to his condition.
ADAMS (voiceover): He'd been doing some experimental work, Captain, an experimental beam we'd hoped might rehabilitate incorrigibles. Van Gelder felt he hadn't the moral right to expose another man to something he hadn't tried on his own person.
KIRK: Tragedy, Doctor.
MCCOY: Jim, that doesn't quite ring true.
KIRK: Er, Doctor Adams, please stand by. Explain.
MCCOY: I don't believe him. I can't explain it, but the more I study that patient
KIRK: You don't believe him, and you can't explain it. Bones, are you aware that in the last twenty years Doctor Adams has done more to revolutionize, to humanize prisons and the treatment of prisoners than all the rest of humanity had done in forty centuries? I've been to those penal colonies since they've begun following his methods, and they're not cages anymore.
MCCOY: Jim
KIRK: They're clean, decent hospitals for sick minds.
MCCOY: Jim, listen!
SPOCK: Gentlemen, I suggest you ask Doctor Adams if he wants Van Gelder returned.
KIRK: Doctor Adams, regarding Van Gelder.
ADAMS (voiceover): Yes, Captain. May I inquire about your patrol destinations? Are you passing near any hospital facilities superior to ours? I'd like Van Gelder to have the best possible treatment, of course.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor. I'll take it up with the ship's surgeon. Stand by. Well, Bones, you've got the ball. You care to recommend a better place?
MCCOY: There are no superior facilities, he knows that. But that's not the question. If something unusual is going on down there
KIRK: An assumption, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'm required to enter any reasonable doubts into my medical log. That requires you to answer in your log. Sorry, Jim.
KIRK: Doctor Adams, this is rather embarrassing. By strict interpretation of our starship regulation, I'm required to initiate an investigation of this so that a proper report
ADAMS (voiceover): No need to apologize, Captain Kirk. In fact, I'd take it as a personal favor if you'd beam down and look into it yourself. I'm sure you realize we don't get too many visitors here. Oh, I, er, Captain, I would appreciate it if you could come down with a minimum staff. We're forced to limit outside contact as much as possible.
KIRK: Affirmative, Doctor. I've visited rehab colonies before. Enterprise out. Find me someone in your department with psychiatric and penology experience, if possible.
MCCOY: Yes, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 2715.2. Standard orbit, planet Tantalus V.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mission, routine investigation and report as per ship surgeon's medical log. As for my last entry, it seems I will get to meet Doctor Adams at last. However, I would have preferred other circumstances. Sickbay. Report, Doctor.
MCCOY (screen): Van Gelder's still violently agitated, Captain.
KIRK: And you'd prefer to keep him here until I complete my investigation anyway.
SPOCK: I believe we should, Jim.
MCCOY (screen): Oh, I'm assigning your technical aide, Captain. One of our psychiatrists does have a background in rehabilitative therapy. Doctor Noel, standing by in the transporter room now.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor. Bridge out. Mister Spock.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Co-ordinates?
BERKELEY: Locked in, sir. Ready to beam down.
NOEL: Doctor Helen Noel, Captain. We've met. Don't you remember the science lab Christmas party?
KIRK: Yes, I remember.
NOEL: You dropped in
KIRK: Yes, yes, I remember.
SPOCK: Problem, Captain?
KIRK: Mister Spock, you tell McCoy that she had better check out as the best assistant I ever had. Energize.
BERKELEY: Energize.

[Building entrance]
KIRK: In here, I presume, Doctor.
NOEL: Perhaps it would be simpler if you called me Helen, Captain, since
KIRK: This is another time, another place, and another situation.
NOEL: Of course, Captain.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Elevator, and going down quite a ways.
NOEL: I wouldn't recommend it for weak hearts.

[Adam's study]
ADAMS: Hello Captain Kirk, and er
KIRK: Doctor Helen Noel. It's a pleasure to finally meet you, sir.
ADAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Captain. Welcome to Devil's Island, Doctor.
NOEL: Perhaps you'll call me Helen, Doctor. With so many titles around, we're not going to be sure who's talking to who.
ADAMS: I shall indeed. Won't you?
NOEL: Thank you.
KIRK: I believe regulations call for me to check my weapon.
ADAMS: No, no. That won't be necessary in your case, Captain. Just keep it out of sight, hmm? I know you people feel as naked without a weapon as we do without a medikit. A small toast. Do you mind? It's such a great day for us here on Tantalus when we have visitors, no matter what the excuse.
KIRK: Doctor.
ADAMS: Oh, now, Captain, you made your apology from upstairs. Now forget it. I don't think you'll be able to get through the security screen, Captain. Just a second, hmm? There. Now try it.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SPOCK (voiceover): Enterprise. Spock here.
KIRK: Your landing co-ordinates were right on the nose, Mister Spock. We arrived safely, and we're here with Doctor Adams right now. Kirk out.
SPOCK (voiceover): Affirmative, Captain. Enterprise out.
ADAMS: Ah, Lethe, come in. Lethe, this is Captain Kirk and Doctor Helen Noel. Lethe came to us for rehabilitation and stayed on as a therapist, and a very good one too, I might add.
LETHE: I love my work.
ADAMS: Go right ahead, Captain.
KIRK: Before you came here
LETHE: I was another person, malignant, hateful.
KIRK: May I ask what crime you committed?
LETHE: Does it matter? That person no longer exists.
ADAMS: Um, part of our cure, if you will, Captain, is to bury the past. Why should a person go on living with unbearable memories if there's no necess. Oh, I feel quite sure that you'd concur with me in that, Doctor. Helen.
NOEL: A shifting of memory patterns is basic to psychotherapy.
ADAMS: Yes. And now to the toast, hmm? You'll forgive us, Lethe. There you are, Captain. To all mankind. May we never find space so vast, planets so cold, heart and mind so empty that, that we cannot fill them with love and warmth.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Quite a tour, Doctor. Very impressive.
ADAMS: Thank you. Hi, Carl.

[Treatment room]
KIRK: Doctor.
ADAMS: Yes?
KIRK: Hmm?
ADAMS: Ah. I was afraid you would ask about this, Captain. One doesn't like to talk about their personal failures, you know? It was just an experiment that went wrong, I'm afraid.
KIRK: May I see it?
NOEL: Captain, if something hasn't worked out and therefore has no scientific fact
KIRK: Shall we leave it up to the doctor?
NOEL: Since you brought me down here for advice, Captain
KIRK: One of the advantages of being a Captain, Doctor, is being able to ask for advice without necessarily having to take it.
ADAMS: I think I'll have to award that round to the Captain, Helen. You're fighting over your weight. All right, let's take a look.

[Sickbay]
GELDER: I'm not a criminal! I do not require neural neutralizer.
SPOCK: Neural neutralizer. Can you explain that, Doctor Van Gelder?
GELDER: A room. A device. Door. Control panel. I see it. A device. A light! The light!
SPOCK: This room. What happens there?

[Treatment room]
ADAMS: A neural neutralizer. Experimental. Actually, we don't expect to get much use out of it at all. That beam from above neutralizes brain waves, relaxs the patient's mind. Does them no harm, of course, and the effects are only temporary.
KIRK: One question, Doctor. If it doesn't do any good
ADAMS: Why do we go on using it, hmm, Captain? Hope. Yes, yes, there's always that slight chance that it might do some good in the more violent cases.
NOEL: Tranquilizers are fine, Captain, but to continually pump chemicals into a person's bloodstream
ADAMS: Exactly my point, Helen. Yes. Shall we?
KIRK: How does it work?
THERAPIST: Quite simple. Off on switches, and the large control here changes the strength of the brain neutralizing beam.
ADAMS: Captain, you remind me of the ancient skeptic who demanded of the wise old sage to be taught all the world's wisdom while standing on one foot.
NOEL: Beam neutralizing has been experimented with on Earth, Captain. I'm not acquainted with this particular style of equipment, but I can assure you that Doctor Adams has not created a chamber of horrors here.
KIRK: I didn't mean to suggest that he had. The reason I asked, sir, was you haven't mentioned where Doctor Van Gelder's injury occurred.
ADAMS: Right here, Captain. Yes, Simon was a very stubborn man. He could've sat in that room for years with the beam at that volume or even higher. Or if he simply had someone standing by to snap it off in case he got into trouble, but, but no. He tried it alone and on full volume. It's a pity.
KIRK: Thank you.
THERAPIST: You will forget all you have heard. To remember any portion of it, any word, will cause you pain, terrible pain, growing more terrible as you fight to remember.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Can you give us your present location, Captain?
KIRK (voiceover): In Doctor Adams' study, Mister Spock. Why?
SPOCK: Then you're with Doctor Adams now.
KIRK (voiceover): Affirmative.
SPOCK: Captain, Van Gelder has made reference to a particular treatment room. The term was neural neutralizer.

[Adam's study]
KIRK: Yes. He was injured there. I've seen the room. Doctor Adams explained

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): the mistake Van Gelder made.

[Adam's study]
KIRK: Go ahead, Mister Spock. Anything further?
ADAMS: Your Mister Spock sounds like a very excellent second in command, Captain Kirk. Please tell him to go ahead and speak freely. I have to check in with a member of my staff anyway.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor Adams.
ADAMS: Excuse me.
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Spock. Doctor Adams has left with some things to attend to. What is it, Mister Spock?

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Van Gelder is extremely agitated, Captain, and warns that you are in danger.

[Adam's study]
NOEL: Oh, that's foolish.
SPOCK (voiceover): Please repeat, Captain. I didn't receive that.
KIRK: Tell McCoy the technical expert he sent along with me insists that any concern is unjustified. According to Adams, Van Gelder created his own problem.
NOEL: He's suffering from

[Sickbay]
NOEL (voiceover): neuro-synapse damage, as if his brain were short-circuited. It's no wonder he's having delusions.
MCCOY: McCoy here. Received and understood.

[Adam's study]
MCCOY (voiceover): But we still have some doubts up here, Captain. Can you tell us any more?
KIRK: Not really.
SPOCK: When do you plan to beam back up, Captain?
KIRK: I think we'll spend the night here, Mister Spock.

[Sickbay]
GELDER: No! No, no, no.
SPOCK: And you will continue to check in every four hours?
KIRK (voiceover): Affirmative.

[Adam's study]
KIRK: Kirk out.

[Sickbay]
GELDER: No! No. No, don't let them! You must warn your captain. No! No! Don't let him stay! Don't let him stay! Don't! No. No. Don't hypo me. Please, don't hypo me. I'll try not to fight. I'll try. But you must listen. Warn your Captain. Doctor Adams. Doc, Doctor Adams will destroy.
SPOCK: Destroy how? What?
GELDER: Right death.
SPOCK (voiceover): Enterprise log. First officer Spock, acting captain. I must now use an ancient Vulcan technique to probe into Van Gelder's tortured mind.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Spock, if there's the slightest possibility it might help.
SPOCK: I've never used it on a human, Doctor.
MCCOY: If there's any way we can look into this man's mind to see if what he's seeing is real or delusion
SPOCK: It's a hidden, personal thing to the Vulcan people, part of our private lives.
MCCOY: Now look, Spock, Jim Kirk could be in real trouble. Will it work or not?
SPOCK: It could be dangerous. Do you understand? It requires I make pressure changes in your nerves, your blood vessels.
GELDER: You must open my mind. Let me warn you and explain to you.
SPOCK: This will not affect you, Doctor McCoy, only the person I touch. It is not hypnosis.
MCCOY: I understand. Good, the reading's leveling.
SPOCK: You begin to feel a strange euphoria. Your body floats.
GELDER: Yes, I begin to feel it.
SPOCK: Open your mind. We move together. Our minds sharing the same thoughts.

[Noel's room]
KIRK: Good evening.
NOEL: Good evening.
KIRK: What did you think of the inmates we saw here this afternoon?
NOEL: You could've waited until tomorrow morning to ask me that, Captain.
KIRK: I didn't.
NOEL: I thought they were happy, well-adjusted.
KIRK: But a bit blank.
NOEL: Captain, if you're questioning the methods of a man like Tristan Adams
KIRK: I'd like to see that treatment room again. You say you're somewhat familiar with the theory behind it?
NOEL: Yes, somewhat, but if you'd simply state any doubts you have to Doctor Adams
KIRK: And if he's lying, he'll continue to lie, and I won't find out a thing. The only way I can be sure is to see that machine at work, or is that too impractical and unscientific of me, Doctor? Well?
NOEL: Coming.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: What is our name? Who are we?
GELDER: We are Simon Van Gelder.
SPOCK: Doctor Adams. The neural neutralizer. What did he do to us?
GELDER: He can reshape any mind he chooses. He used it to erase our memories, put his own thoughts there. He was surprised it took so much power. We fought him, remember? But we grew so tired, our minds so blank, so open, that any thought he placed there became our thoughts. Our minds so empty like a sponge, needing thoughts, begging. Empty. Loneliness. So lonely to be sitting there empty, wanting any word from him. Love.
SPOCK: Yes.
GELDER: Hate.
SPOCK: Yes.
GELDER: Live.
SPOCK: Yes.
GELDER: Die.
SPOCK: Yes.
GELDER: Such agony to be empty.
SPOCK: Empty.
GELDER: Lonely.
SPOCK: Lonely.
GELDER: So empty.
SPOCK: Empty.
GELDER: So empty.

[Treatment room]
KIRK: I have no desire to damage my brain. Can this be handled with reasonable safety? Yes or no?
NOEL: Yes.
KIRK: And will you be able to determine if that beam is harming me in the slightest?
NOEL: Yes, Captain. I know my profession. Ready?
KIRK: Mm-hmm.
NOEL: We'll try minimum intensity, a second or two.
KIRK: Anytime you're ready, Doctor, just for a second or two.
NOEL: We already tried it for that long, Captain.
KIRK: Nothing happened.
NOEL: Something happened. Your face went completely blank.
KIRK: Try a harmless suggestion.
NOEL: You're hungry.
KIRK: You know, when we finally get through this I'd like to locate and raid a kitchen somewhere.
NOEL: I put that suggestion in your mind, Captain. I said simply that you were hungry.
KIRK: Remarkably effective for a device that Doctor Adams was going to abandon.
NOEL: I think we should try this again.
KIRK: Yes. Pick something unusual, an unusual suggestion, something we can both be sure of.
NOEL: At the Christmas party, we met, we danced, you talked about the stars. I suggest now that it happened in a different way. You swept me off my feet and carried me to your cabin.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Merry Christmas.
NOEL: Captain, if your crew saw you carry me here.
KIRK: My crew is sworn to secrecy.
NOEL: But my reputation. I mean, just having met like this. Of course, it would be different if you cared for me.
KIRK: You want me to manufacture a lie, wrap it up as a Christmas present for you?
NOEL: No, I prefer honesty.

[Treatment room]
ADAMS: Now Captain Kirk is going to have a complete demonstration. I want there to be no doubts whatsoever in his mind. Mmm. You're madly in love with Helen, Captain. You'd lie, cheat, steal for her, sacrifice your career, your reputation.
NOEL: No, Doctor! No!
ADAMS: The pain. Do you feel it, Captain? You must have her, or the pain grows worse, the pain, the longing for her.
KIRK: Helen.
NOEL: No.
ADAMS: For years, you've loved her, Captain, for years.
KIRK: For years, I've loved you.
ADAMS: You must continue to remember that, Captain. And now, she's gone.
KIRK: Helen! Helen, don't go! I need you, Helen!
ADAMS: Now Captain, you must take your phaser weapon and drop it on the floor. Captain, the pain increases unless you obey me.
KIRK: I must drop it.
ADAMS: Very good, Captain. Very good indeed. And now your communicator. Drop it on the floor.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Argh! Kirk to Enterprise. Argh!
NOEL: No!

[Kirk's room]
NOEL: They've taken you from the room, Captain. You're in your own quarters now.
KIRK: Helen. Helen, for years I've loved you. Helen.
NOEL: Try to remember.
KIRK: I've loved you.
NOEL: He placed all that in your mind.
KIRK: For years.
NOEL: Remember. Doctor Adams took the controls away from me. Do you remember the pain and then his voice? Remember?
KIRK: Yes. Yes, I remember. I remember. Helen. Look. The duct. The duct. Give me a hand here. Pull. Air conditioning. It has to connect with other ducts and tunnels. You can get through this. It might lead to the power supply. Short-circuited, it would cut off the security force field. Have you had any training in hyper-power circuits?
NOEL: No.
KIRK: Megavoltage. Touch the wrong line, and you're dead.
NOEL: Anything's better than Adams' treatment room. Time for another treatment?

[Treatment room]
ADAMS: Please don't fight me, Captain. The pain only gets worse when you doubt me. You believe in me completely.
KIRK: I believe in you.
ADAMS: You trust me completely.
KIRK: I trust you.
ADAMS: Excellent, Captain. I compliment you. Do you know Doctor Van Gelder was down on his hands and knees sobbing at this point? It was so gratifying. I'm so fortunate to have had a couple of excellent specimens to, to work with. I've learned a great deal.
LETHE: The woman doctor. She's gone, Doctor Adams.
ADAMS: Notify security at once, Lethe. Where is she, Captain?
KIRK: I, argh, I don't know.
ADAMS: Where is Helen And with what instructions?
KIRK: I don't know.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Emergency channel D.
BERKELEY: It's no good, Mister Spock. I can't break through their force field.
SPOCK: Keep trying.

[Treatment room]
ADAMS: Put him back in the chair, Eli, and find that girl.

[Transporter room]
BERKELEY: Mister Spock, the force field is gone. I can send you right to the source of the interruption.
SPOCK: Get some security people and follow me down. Energize.

[Power control room]
SPOCK: Enterprise, this is Spock. Force field has been eliminated.

[Kirk's room]
NOEL: Captain. Captain?
KIRK: Helen, are you all right?
NOEL: Yes. This isn't right, Captain. Doctor Adams did this to you.
KIRK: Doctor Adams? Doctor A. The treatment room. Follow me.

[Treatment room]
MCCOY: Jim!
KIRK: The power came on.
MCCOY: He's dead, Captain.
NOEL: The machine wasn't on high enough to kill.
KIRK: But he was alone. Can you imagine the mind emptied by that thing? Without even a tormentor for company.
NOEL: I understand.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Oh, Captain, there was a message from Tantalus colony, sir.
SPOCK: It was from Van Gelder. He thought you'd like to know the treatment room had been dismantled and the equipment destroyed.
KIRK: Thank you.
MCCOY: It's hard to believe that a man could die of loneliness.
KIRK: Not when you've sat in that room. Take us out of orbit, Mister Spock. Ahead warp factor one.
SPOCK: Acknowledged, Captain. Warp factor one.
KIRK: Earth-style distress signal. SOS.
FARRELL: I've answered it on all frequencies, sir. They don't reply.
SPOCK: Not a vessel, a ground source. The third planet in this solar system, according to my instruments.
FARRELL: Directly ahead. Definitely an Earth-style signal.
KIRK: We're hundreds of light years from Earth, Mister Spock. No colonies or vessels out this far.
SPOCK: Measuring the planet now, Captain. It's spheroid-shaped, circumference twenty four thousand eight hundred seventy four miles. Mass six times ten to the twenty first power tons. Mean density five point five one seven. Atmosphere oxygen, nitrogen.
RAND: Earth!
KIRK: Not the Earth, another Earth. Another Earth? Captain's Log, stardate 2713.5. In the distant reaches of our galaxy, we have made an astonishing diskovery. Earth type radio signals coming from a planet which apparently is an exact duplicate of the Earth. It seems impossible, but there it is.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Hold us in a fixed orbit, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: Still no response, communications?
FARRELL: None, Captain.
KIRK: We'll beam down. Alert security. Prepare to transport landing party to surface. We'll land in the vicinity of the distress signals now being received.

[Street]
KIRK: Identical. Earth, as it was in the early 1900s.
SPOCK: More the, er, mid-1900s I would say, Captain, approximately 1960.
RAND: But where is everybody?
SPOCK: Readings indicate that natural deterioration has been taking place on this planet for at least several centuries.
RAND: You mean there's no one alive?
SPOCK: Not conclusive, Yeoman. The evidence would suggest that the distress signal is automated.
MCCOY: Now, this is marvelous. the most horrible conglomeration of antique architecture I've ever seen.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
TEENAGER: Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! It's, it's broke. Somebody broke it. Fix. Somebody, please fix.
MCCOY: Of course somebody will fix it.
SPOCK: Definitely humanoid, in spite of the distortion.
KIRK: But with the mind of a child. Bones, what is it?
MCCOY: A seizure of some type.
KIRK: We want to help you.
TEENAGER: Liar! Fibber, fibber, fibber, fibber, fibber, fibber, fibber!
MCCOY: It's dead. It's incredible.
KIRK: What is?
MCCOY: Its metabolic rate. It's impossibly high as if it's burning itself up, almost as if it aged a century in just the past few minutes.
KIRK: Come on!

[House]
KIRK: How old is this thing?
SPOCK: About three hundred years.
KIRK: Come out. We mean you no harm.
MIRI: Don't hurt me, please.
KIRK: I'm not going to hurt you.
MIRI: No, please, don't. I didn't do anything.
KIRK: I won't hurt you.
MIRI: No, please don't.
KIRK: I only want to talk to you.
MIRI: No, don't. Don't hurt.
KIRK: Come on.
MIRI: Don't, please.
KIRK: I won't hurt you.
MIRI: Don't hurt me.
KIRK: Come on. It's all right. Come on.
RAND: We won't hurt you, sweetheart. We're your friends. No, shh!
KIRK: Take the guards, have a look outside. Radioactive readings, chemical pollutions, any further sign of life.
SPOCK: Right, Captain.
MCCOY: I wonder what happened to her, that she should be so terrified of us.
MIRI: But I remember the things you Grups did, burning, yelling, hurting people.
KIRK: We didn't do anything like that.
MIRI: You're not going to hurt?
KIRK: Well, of course not. We're here to help.
MIRI: Grups don't help.
RAND: But we will.
KIRK: What happened here? Where is everybody?
MIRI: You know.
KIRK: No, I don't. Won't you tell me?
MIRI: You got a foolie, is that it, and you want me to play, but I can't. I don't know the rules. I've got to know the rules.
MCCOY: Foolie?
MIRI: A game, you know. You can't play a game without rules. Even Grups ought to know that.
KIRK: What are Grups?
MIRI: You are. They will, when Onlies get old.
RAND: Grownups.
KIRK: You said something about the Grups doing bad things, yelling, hurting, burning.
MIRI: That was when they started to get sick in the before time. We hid, then they were gone. Am I doing all right?
KIRK: You're doing fine.
MCCOY: You said the Grups got sick. Is that why there aren't any of them around?
MIRI: Yes. They died, but that was after the awful things.
MCCOY: A plague, Captain. That could explain a lot of it.
KIRK: But what about the children, the Onlies? Didn't the awful things affect them?
MIRI: Of course not. We're here, aren't we?
KIRK: More of you? How many?
MIRI: All there are.
KIRK: What's your name?
MIRI: Miri.
KIRK: Miri. A pretty name for a pretty young woman.
MIRI: Pretty?
KIRK: Very pretty.

[Alleyway]
SPOCK: Guards! Cover me.
CHILDREN (voiceover): Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah!

[House]
SPOCK: Children, Captain. Lots of them. We couldn't begin to get close to them. They just seemed to scurry away, like animals. Only children.
KIRK: Miri said all the adults died.
MCCOY: That creature which attacked us was certainly no child. Perhaps it died of the disease the girl's talking about.
KIRK: There must be records somewhere and answers to some of our questions. Miri, do you know any buildings where the doctors used to work?
MIRI: Yes, I know that. Them and their pills and things.
KIRK: Will you take me there?
MIRI: That's a bad place.
KIRK: It's important. Please.
MIRI: All right. Do you have a name, too?
KIRK: Yes. It's Jim.
MIRI: I like that name.
KIRK: Good. I like yours, too. I like you.
MIRI: Do you really?
KIRK: I wouldn't lie to you.
MIRI: I wouldn't lie to you, either, Jim. I remember the Grups, but you're nice. You're different.
KIRK: Why, thank you.
MIRI: It's already starting. I knew it would. Just like it did with the Grups. It'll spread all over you, and you'll yell, and you'll try to hurt everybody and then you'll die. I knew it would! I knew it would! Captain's Log, stardate 2713.6. The building Miri led us to also housed an automatic transmission station, which sent out the signal that drew us to this planet. We also diskovered something else. That the blues blotches, characteristic of the unknown disease had appeared on each of us, with the exception of Mister Spock. There was a well-equipped laboratory in the building. Doctor McCoy took tissue samples of each of us in an attempt to isolate the organism responsible.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: A veritable zoo of bacteria. Beam down a biocomputer and a portable electronic microscope. If I'm dealing with viruses, I'll need better equipment than I have here.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: Yes, Doctor.

[Laboratory]
FARRELL (voiceover): Captain Kirk?
KIRK: Yes, Lieutenant?

[Bridge]
FARRELL: I've got volunteers standing by ready to help you, sir.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: Under no circumstances do I want anyone to beam down from the ship. We can't take any chances with further contamination.
FARRELL (voiceover): But Captain, if you become too ill to
KIRK: My orders still stand, Lieutenant. You can help us best by clearing the computer banks and standing by. Kirk out. Bones, why do you think the symptoms haven't appeared in Mister Spock?
MCCOY: I don't know. Probably the little bugs or whatever they are have no appetite for green blood.
SPOCK: Being a red-blooded human obviously has its disadvantages. Now there you have a museum piece, Doctor. Lens type, manually operated, light-activated.
MCCOY: Spare me the analysis, Mister Spock, please. It is enough that it works.
MIRI: It spreads real fast. I know. When you're old, it covers you like anything.
KIRK: Intermediate experimentation report project on life prolongation.
SPOCK: Progress report, genetics section, Life Prolongation Project.
RAND: So that's what it was.
MCCOY: Life prolongation. Didn't have much luck, did they? Captain's Log. Doctor McCoy's biocomputer and a portable electronic microscope have been beamed down from the Enterprise. They will be used in conjunction with computer banks on-board ship.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: Tubular with extreme multiplicability. Appear to have affinity for nucleic acids. Give me what you have.
SPOCK: This was three hundred years ago, Captain.
KIRK: All the adults are dead. Only the children are left alive.
SPOCK: But children become adults.
KIRK: At least they have up to now.
SPOCK: Doctor, there are certain glandular changes which take place upon entering puberty, are there not?
MCCOY: Of course. It changes the entire body system. You know that. Of course you know that. Why?
SPOCK: Is it not possible that these children here, as they enter puberty, contract the disease?
KIRK: That would explain why there are no adults.
MCCOY: Glandular, post-pubescent. Could be.
SPOCK: It's illogical. It does not follow. All the adults on this planet died three hundred years ago, but there are children in the streets.
KIRK: Who die when they enter adolescence.
MCCOY: But how do they keep the line going?
RAND: One thing, Captain. If she were a wild animal ever since she's been a little girl, how do you explain that she wants to stay with us?
KIRK: Loneliness? I don't know, curiosity? I think children have an instinctive need for adults. They want to be told right and wrong.
SPOCK: There may be other emotions at work in this case, Captain.
MCCOY: She likes you, Jim.
SPOCK: She's becoming a woman.

[Bridge]
FARRELL: Mister Spock.

[Laboratory]
SPOCK: Spock here.
FARRELL (voiceover): Here are those figures you asked for. Twelve to the tenth power. Metabolic rate seventy two percent. Production of nucleic acids reduced to thirty three percent of normal. Conventional chronological progression one hundred by three point six.
SPOCK: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. I have their calculations now.
KIRK: Try again. See if you can find anything outside. Hey, clean up that desk for me, will you?
MIRI: All right, Jim.
KIRK: Thank you.
SPOCK: According to their life prolongation plan, what they thought they were accomplishing, a person would age only one month for every one hundred years of real time.
RAND: One hundred years and only one month?
SPOCK: Exactly, Yeoman. Evidently through some miscalculation, this virus annihilated the entire adult population in a very short period, leaving only the children.
RAND: But that means these children
SPOCK: Could very well be immensely old.
KIRK: That would certainly answer the question of what happened to their parents.
MCCOY: Answers it very well.
RAND: Children who never age. Eternal childhood, filled with play, no responsibilities. It's almost like a dream.
KIRK: I wouldn't examine that dream too closely, Yeoman. It might not turn out to be very pretty.
MCCOY: A few days ago or a week ago that creature that attacked us could have been just like Miri. A child entering puberty on this planet means a death sentence.
RAND: Do you suppose she knows?
KIRK: I don't think so.
RAND: If they're as old as Spock claims, they must have some idea of what's happening.
KIRK: There's no adult interpretation. I think we're dealing with children. Immensely old perhaps, but nonetheless children. We've got to do something about the others.
SPOCK: Difficult, if we can't even get a glimpse of them.
KIRK: You couldn't get close to the other kids?
SPOCK: Impossible. They know the area too well, like mice.
KIRK: I'm going to try. Miri? Come here. You want to go someplace with me?
MIRI: Sure.
RAND: That little girl
SPOCK: Is at least three hundred years older than you are, Yeoman. Think about it.

[Old Toy Shop]
JAHN: Miri is with them! Why? Why?
RED HEAD BOY: What's she going to do, Jahn?
JAHN: I don't, I don't know. I know what we've got to do. There are more of them than we see. Somewhere, up in the sky, maybe, somewhere. They talk to each other all the time. You know Grups. You know what they do, the hurting, the killing.
RED HEAD BOY: I remember, Jahn, the way it was.
JAHN: That's right, the way it was in the before time. They talk to the other Grups with these little boxes. Now, if they didn't have those little boxes, they'd be all alone, huh?
RED HEAD BOY: But they don't see us. We hide. Olly olly oxen free!
CHILDREN: Olly olly oxen free! Olly olly oxen free! Olly olly oxen free!
JAHN: No! It's not a game, it's real. They're dangerous, they're Grups. Don't you understand?
MASKED BOY: Jahn!
JAHN: All right, let's hide!
KIRK: Dead. I don't understand it. My phaser wasn't set to kill.
MIRI: Her name was Louise. She was just a little bit older than I am when it happened. Oh, Jim.

[Laboratory]
FARRELL (voiceover): Data has been fed into the computers, Mister Spock. Stand by.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
MIRI: Are these enough, Jim?
KIRK: We could use some more, if you don't mind.
MIRI: No, I don't mind.
KIRK: There couldn't be any doubt about what you found here?
SPOCK: This fellow made these notes in the last weeks after the disaster began. I disregard these last entries. He said himself he was too sick, too far gone to be sure he wasn't already mad, and I agree, but based on the entries he made before that, I know how much time we have. The ship's computers will verify my figures.
MCCOY: Only a matter of time before we all go mad, destroy each other, till the last of us finally destroys himself.
KIRK: What about Miri?
SPOCK: Our guess was correct. They contract the disease as they enter puberty and their metabolism changes. The notes would indicate it doesn't become acute for a month or so. I estimate she has perhaps five or six weeks left.
MCCOY: What about us?
SPOCK: The older the victim, the more rapid the progress of the disease.
KIRK: And you? The disease doesn't seem to be interested in you.
SPOCK: I am a carrier. Whatever happens, I can't go back to the ship, and I do want to go back to the ship, Captain.
KIRK: Of course, Mister Spock. We still don't know what we're fighting.
MCCOY: No, but we know what it is and how fast it does it. It's progressing. We'll begin to feel it inside soon. Intense fever, great pain in the extremities, fuzziness of vision. Of course, those are the early symptoms. There'll be more.
KIRK: Are You certain about the time we have left?
SPOCK: I presume my calculations are correct.
KIRK: Is there any possibility
FARRELL (voiceover): Landing party, this is the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Spock here.
FARRELL (voiceover): Computer indicates one hundred seventy hours, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Verified, Captain. We have seven days. Captain's Log, supplement. This is the second day of the seven left to us. We've found nothing. Enterprise is standing by with labs and computers ready to assist us.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: There's no data, no starting point.
MCCOY: I think I've found it.
KIRK: Janice, take Miri for a walk.
RAND: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Only one half intact.
KIRK: But do you know what they were up to?
MCCOY: More or less. The idea was to create a new series of diseases, a chain reaction of viruses meant essentially to extend the life of the human cell immeasurably.
SPOCK: Unfortunately, they weren't successful. We've seen the results.
KIRK: You two will have to recreate their thinking. If you can isolate that virus, we'll be able to develop a vaccine.
MCCOY: Is that all, Captain? We have five days, you know.
KIRK: I know.
CHILDREN (voiceover): Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah.
KIRK: The children!

[Corridor outside Laboratory]
KIRK: Anything?
SPOCK: No, nothing.
KIRK: And you?

[Laboratory]
SPOCK: Communicators, Captain, they're gone.
MCCOY: Jim, We've absolutely got to have those communicators. Without them, we don't have the computers, and without the computers, we don't have a chance. Captain's Log, stardate 2717.3. Three days, seven hours left to us. Investigation proves that the supply of food in the area is running dangerously low. Unless something is done, the children will starve in a few months. The disease is working on each of us according to Doctor McCoy's prediction. Our tempers are growing short, and We're no further along than we were two days ago.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: Haven't you found a thing yet?
MCCOY: Would you like to take a crack at it?
RAND: No! No! No!

[Corridor]
RAND: I'm upset, so upset. Back on the ship, I used to try to get you to look at my legs. Captain, look at my legs.
KIRK: We're all frightened.
MCCOY (voiceover): Jim, I found something!

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: The last slide I examined, I failed to make the necessary adjustment. The slowing down of my own responses
KIRK: Never mind that, what did you find?
MCCOY: The disease, Captain, the one they created three hundred years ago.
RAND: There's a chance!
MCCOY: A chance. At least it's a race now, and we've just wasted a minute.

[Old Toy shop]
JAHN: That would be some foolie, Miri, but do you think it would work?
MIRI: I know. I know. Don't you think I've heard them talk? They have such little time to do this dumb thing of theirs, this baninski thing. If we get her away. that Yeoman, that's one person less to start off with.
MASKED BOY: But how, Miri? If they're so busy, if they're going to have the big emergency, how are you going to get her away?
MIRI: It's easy. She's always asking me about the youngest little Onlies, little ones. What if they get sick, who takes care of them? Do they have enough to eat? Where do they sleep? I'll just tell her one of you fell down and got hurt.
RED HEAD BOY: Me. Say it's me.
MIRI: All right, you.
JAHN: But Grups, they know things and all that. You know, I bet they'll be able to do it with one person less.
MIRI: Not one, two. Because he'll try to find her.
RED HEAD BOY: Who? Who will, Miri?
MIRI: The Captain. He'll try to find her, but he won't. Mister Lovey-dovey.
RED HEAD BOY: Lovey-dovey. Bonk bonk on the head. Bonk bonk! bonk bonk!
CHILDREN: Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: It looks right.
SPOCK: The nitrogen cycle, it has to be.
MCCOY: But the question is, what's the dosage?
SPOCK: That is a very good question.
KIRK: Where is she, Miri? Where is she, Miri? Where's Janice?
MIRI: What's the matter with you? How should I know?
KIRK: Where is she? Has something happened to her?
MIRI: Don't you feel all right?
KIRK: No, I don't feel all right! None of us feel all right! Can't you see what's going on?
MIRI: Jim, I don't want anything to happen to you.
KIRK: I've got to find Janice.
SPOCK: That's not all, Captain. We've got to find those communicators.
KIRK: We're trying, Mister Spock. We're trying very hard.
MCCOY: That's not good enough! This could be it, but we can't test it without the ship's computers.
SPOCK: We've got to have those communicators, Jim.
KIRK: This is the vaccine?
MCCOY: That's what the computers will tell us.
SPOCK: Without them, it could be a beaker full of death.
KIRK: Did you hear them? We only have a few hours left.
MIRI: I don't care.
KIRK: You've got to care. Miri, I'm going to tell you something. You, your friends, all the Onlies are going to get the disease unless we succeed in what we're doing. You've seen your friends get it.
MIRI: Sometimes it happens.
KIRK: Not sometimes. All the times, Miri! As soon as you start growing up the way you are. Don't you know why you don't like to play games anymore, why you don't see your friends the way you used to? It's because you're becoming a young woman, and the moment you become a young woman, you get the disease. All of you.
MIRI: That's not true. It just happens sometimes.
KIRK: All the time, Miri! It's happening to you right now! Look at it. Look at it, Miri, it's in you!
MIRI: No! No! No!

[Schoolroom]
RED HEAD BOY: Blah, blah, blah!
JAHN: No, you got the wrong game. A teacher, I told you. Now, what does a teacher say, huh?
RED HEAD BOY: Yeah. Study, study, study, or bonk bonk, bad kid.
RAND: It's not funny.
JAHN: It's a foolie.
RAND: What are you going to do with me?
JAHN: You think I'd tell you? Miri, you're not supposed to be here.
MIRI: I know.
JAHN: What's the matter, something go wrong?
MIRI: No.
JAHN: Okay, then. Don't just stand there in the doorway, come on in.
MIRI: Listen to him.
JAHN: You listen, Miri.
MIRI: I did. Why do you think I brought him here? Tell them, Jim.
JAHN: Tell'em, Jim. Tell'em, Jim.
CHILDREN: Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim!
KIRK: Listen to me. Listen to me!
JAHN: No yelling in the classroom! Look at him, a very bad citizen.
KIRK: This isn't a game. It never was a game.
BLONDE GIRL: Call the police!
RED HEAD BOY: I'm the police. Bonk bonk unless you're good.
JAHN: You're the teacher.
RED HEAD BOY: I got two jobs. Bonk bonk!
CHILDREN: Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah!
KIRK: Listen to me! You've got our communicators, the boxes we talk into. We need them to talk to the ship.
RED HEAD BOY: Blah blah blah!
KIRK: No blah blah blah! Because if we don't talk to the ship, if you don't help us, there won't be any games anymore. There won't be anything. Nothing, no Grups, no Onlies, nobody left forever and ever.
RAND: Captain.
KIRK: Now listen to me. You've got to help us before it's too late. Let Janice go. Give me those communicators before it's too late.
CHILDREN: Nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah.
KIRK: You've seen your friends change one by one as they grew up. Did you ever see one of them not change? One by one, they got the disease, and they became like, Iike those creatures you're afraid of, like Louise. One by one they changed and got the disease. The disease like I've got, like Miri has. You understand what I'm talking about. You're not babies. We can help you!
RED HEAD BOY: Naughty Grup. Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!
MIRI: No, please. No!
KIRK: It's waiting for you. It may only be a matter of months.
MIRI: Listen to him. He's telling the truth.
JAHN: He's funny. He thinks he's funny.
RED HEAD BOY: Bonk bonk! Get him!
KIRK: Look at my arms! That's what's going to happen to you unless you let me help you.
RED HEAD BOY: Bonk bonk! Hit him!
KIRK: And the little ones. What's going to happen to them after you've gone, after you've turned into creatures like Louise? Oh, they'll still be here, but not for long, because the food's all gone. You've eaten it. Maybe six months left, that's all, and then nothing left to eat, nobody left to take care of them. They'll die, too.
MIRI: Look at my arm, Jahn. It's happening to me. He's telling the truth.
JAHN: They're Grups!
CHILDREN: Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!
KIRK: All right, you want a foolie? All right. I dare you, I double-dare you. Look at the blood on my face. Now look at your hands. Blood on your hands. Now who's doing the hurting? Not the Grups, it's you hurting, yelling, maybe killing, just like the Grups you remember and creatures you're afraid of. You're acting like them, and you're going to be just like them unless you let me help you. I'm a Grup, and I want to help you. I'm begging you, let me help you or there won't be anything left at all. Please.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: We can't wait for those communicators any longer.
SPOCK: We must. The vaccine could be fatal.
MCCOY: The disease certainly is. How long do we have left? Hours, minutes? How much longer do you want to wait?
SPOCK: Bickering is pointless. I'll check on the Captain's progress.
MCCOY: Spock!
GALLOWAY: Is he dead, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Not yet.
KIRK: Three hours, eleven minutes left. Thank you, Lieutenant. Keep this channel open. Clear your computers. What happened to him?
SPOCK: He injected himself with the vaccine. He was unconscious when I found him.
KIRK: Look at his face.
SPOCK: The blemishes are fading. They're fading. Who will understand the medical mind?
JAHN: Is this supposed to be a good thing, Miri?
MIRI: Of course it is.

[Bridge]
RAND: They were just children. Simply to leave them there with a medical team
KIRK: Just children, three hundred years old and more. I've already contacted Space Central. They'll send teachers, advisers.
MCCOY: And truant officers, I presume.
KIRK: They'll be all right.
RAND: Miri. She really loved you, you know.
KIRK: Yes. I never get involved with older women, Yeoman. Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: Full ahead. Warp factor one.
SPOCK: Warp factor one, Captain.

[Theater]
KIRK: Interesting. An Arcturian Macbeth.
LEIGHTON: Watch him. Watch Macbeth.
LENORE: Is he dead? Speak. Is King Duncan dead?
KARIDIAN: Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hands.
LEIGHTON: That voice. He's back. That man on the stage. I'm certain of it. That's Kodos the Executioner.
KARIDIAN: Pluck out mine eyes!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, star date 2817.6. Starship Enterprise diverted from scheduled course. Purpose, to confirm diskover by Doctor Thomas Leighton of an extraordinary new synthetic food which would totally end the threat of famine on Cygnia Minor, a nearby Earth colony.

[Leighton's home]
KIRK: You mean to tell me you've called me three light years off my course just to accuse an actor of being Kodos?
LEIGHTON: He is Kodos. I'm sure of it.
KIRK: You said you diskovered a new food concentrate. What am I supposed to put in my log, that you lied? That you diverted a starship with false information? You're not only in trouble, you've put me in trouble, too.
LEIGHTON: I did it to trap Kodos!
KIRK: Kodos is dead.
LEIGHTON: Is he? Is anyone sure? A body burned beyond recognition?
KIRK: Tom, the authorities closed the book on that case years ago.
LEIGHTON: Then let's reopen it. Jim, four thousand people were butchered.
KIRK: Martha, you tell him.
MARTHA: I can't tell him anything, Jim. He's been like this since the company of actors arrived.
KIRK: Kodos is dead. I'm satisfied of that.
LEIGHTON: Well, I'm not. I remember him. That voice. The bloody thing he did.
LEIGHTON: Jim, Jim, I need your help. There were only eight or nine of us who actually saw Kodos. I was one, you were another. If he's to be exposed,
KIRK: He's dead.
LEIGHTON: Then it will be a ghost Martha and I receive in our home tonight. I invited the entire company to a cocktail party. I have to be sure.
KIRK: And I have to get back to my ship and figure out how I'm going to enter all this in my log. Tom. Martha.

[Briefing room]
COMPUTER: Library computer.
KIRK: History files. Subject, former Governor Kodos of Tarsus Four, also known as Kodos the Executioner. After that, background on actor Anton Karidian.
COMPUTER: Working. Kodos the Executioner, summary. Governor of Tarsus Four twenty Earth years ago. Invoked martial law. Slaughtered fifty percent of population Earth colony, that planet. Burned body found when Earth forces arrived. No positive identification. Case closed. Detailed information follows. On stardate 2794.7,
KIRK: Stop. Information on Anton Karidian.
COMPUTER: Director and star of traveling company of actors sponsored by galactic cultural exchange project, touring official installlations last nine years. Has daughter, Lenore, nineteen years old,
KIRK: Stop. Give comparative identification between actor Karidian and Governor Kodos.
COMPUTER: No identification records available on actor Anton Karidian.
KIRK: Give information on actor Karidian prior to Kodos' death.
COMPUTER: No information available, Anton Karidian, prior to twenty years ago
KIRK: Photograph Kodos. Photograph Karidian. Now photograph both.
KIRK: Mister Spock. You know Doctor Leighton, don't you? Would you say he's given to fantasy?
SPOCK: A good empirical research scientist. Steady, reputable, occasionally brilliant.
KIRK: With a very long memory.
SPOCK: I have no information on that, Captain. We are ready to leave orbit.
KIRK: We'll delay departure for a time. I'm beaming back down to the planet.

[Leighton's home]
KIRK: Where's Tom?
MARTHA: He went to town. He called. He's on his way back.
KIRK: The others are on the patio.
LENORE: I take it you're the welcoming committee. Is that for me?
KIRK: Why not? I saw your performance today. May I extend my appreciation?
LENORE: My father will be delighted, Mister. Mister?
KIRK: Captain James Kirk, Starship Enterprise.
LENORE: We are honored.
KIRK: I had hoped to meet your father, here, tonight, personally.
LENORE: I'm sorry, Captain Kirk. He has a rigid rule about that. He never sees anyone personally, and he never attends parties.
KIRK: An actor turning away his admirers? Very unusual.
LENORE: Karidian is a most unusual man. You saw Macbeth. That was my father.
KIRK: Then I'll talk to Lady Macbeth.
LENORE: So. Captain of the Enterprise. Interesting.
KIRK: So, Lady Macbeth. Interesting. What's your next move?
LENORE: We play two performances at Benecia, if the AstraI Queen can get us there.
KIRK: She's a good ship. Thank you. You were very impressive as Lady Macbeth.
LENORE: Thank you. And as Lenore Karidian?
KIRK: Very impressive. Lenore. I'd like to see you again.
LENORE: You mean professionally?
KIRK: Not necessarily.
LENORE: I think I'd like that. Unfortunately, we must keep a schedule.
KIRK: You don't have a schedule now, do you?
LENORE: You mean leave? But I've only just arrived. KIRK; So have I.
LENORE: And you hate to overstay a welcome.
KIRK: Exactly.
LENORE: Why not?
KIRK: Good. I'll make our apologies to our hostess. I'll meet you outside.

[Countryside]
LENORE: No. Just thinking.
KIRK: About what?
LENORE: At the party, you were such a brash young man. KIRK; And now?
LENORE: Now somehow different. Not a ship's Captain with all those people to be strong and confident in front of. You know, you're really very dear, aren't you? In some ways, very lonely.
KIRK: It's Tom Leighton. He's dead.

[Leighton's home]
MARTHA: At least he has peace now. He never really had that before. Oh, why was Tom killed if what he suspected wasn't true?
KIRK: I don't know. I'll try and find out.
MARTHA: Oh, Jim. How I'll miss him.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge here, Captain.
KIRK: Put me through to Captain Jon Daily of the AstraI Queen on orbit station, and put it on scramble.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Daily's on, sir. KIRK; Jon? Jim Kirk.
DAILY (voiceover): Hi, Jim.
KIRK: Can you do me a favor?
DAILY (voiceover): I owe you a dozen. Just ask.
KIRK: Don't make your pick-up here.
DAILY (voiceover): You mean strand all those actors?
KIRK: I'll pick them up. And if there's any trouble, it'll be my responsibility.
DAILY (voiceover): Will do. Anything else?
KIRK: Just keep this between the two of us and accept my thanks. Over and out. Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge here, Captain.
KIRK: Transporter room, ready to beam up.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Ready to resume course, Captain.
KIRK: I think we're due for a pick-up.
SPOCK: What kind? Personnel? Cargo?
UHURA: Captain? A Miss Karidian has been transported aboard ship. She requests permission to see you.
KIRK: Tell her to come up to the Bridge, Lieutenant.

[Transporter room]
UHURA (voiceover): Escort Miss Karidian to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: How did you know this lady was coming aboard?
KIRK: I'm the Captain.
LENORE: Captain Kirk, I didn't think we'd be meeting again so soon.
KIRK: You probably wouldn't believe me if I told you I arranged it.
LENORE: No, but it's a delightful thought. Captain, I'm afraid we need your help. We've been stranded. It seems that our transportation has canceled out on us.
KIRK: Can't you make other arrangements?
LENORE: Yes, but not in time. You see, our schedule is like a chain. One break and it all collapses.
KIRK: It'd be a shame if that happened.
LENORE: If ever we needed a Good Samaritan.
KIRK: Well.
LENORE: I appeal to you.
KIRK: The regulations are very clear about taking on passengers.
LENORE: I'll make a bargain with you, Captain.
KIRK: What have you got to trade?
LENORE: Special performance for the crew in exchange for a lift.
KIRK: You make it sound very interesting. The crew has been on patrol for a long time. They could use a break in the monotony.
LENORE: Then you'll do it?
KIRK: You've got me backed into a corner. The men would never forgive me if I deprived them of your performance, and your presence.
LENORE: Thank you, Captain. I'm eternally grateful. I'll get the company ready. This means so much to them.
KIRK: Mister Spock, prepare to leave orbit as soon as the Karidian company is aboard the ship.
SPOCK: May I inquire as to our course, Captain?
KIRK: Benecia Colony.
SPOCK: Benecia Colony is eight light years off our course.
KIRK: If my memory needs refreshing, Mister Spock, I'll ask you for it. In the meantime, follow my orders.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 2818.9. There are many questions in my mind, too many, perhaps, about the actor Karidian and his daughter. For personal reasons, I'm almost afraid to learn the answers.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Spock, ETA the Benecia Colony.
SPOCK: We'll arrive stardate 2825.3, Captain, approximately fifteen hundred Benecia time.
COMPUTER: Library computer.
KIRK: Data on question submitted to personnel files.
COMPUTER: Data being received. Kodos file of all survivors. There are nine actual eye witnesses who can identify Kodos.
KIRK: Stop. Give list.
COMPUTER: Kirk, J., presently Enterprise Captain, Leighton, T., Molton, E., Riley, K., Eames, D.,
KIRK: Stop. Is that star service Lieutenant Kevin Riley?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Riley, Kevin. Presently assigned U.S.S. Enterprise communications section.
KIRK: Stop. Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Kevin Riley in communications, I wish to have him transferred down to the engineering decks.
SPOCK: He came up from engineering, Captain.
KIRK: I'm sending him back.
SPOCK: Any explanation? He's a fine young officer. He's bound to consider this transfer a diskiplinary action.
KIRK: I don't wish to diskuss it, Mister Spock. Please follow my orders.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Mister Spock, the man on top walks a lonely street. The chain of command is often a noose.
SPOCK: Spare me your philosophical metaphors, Doctor. The Captain is acting strangely. I'm asking if you've noticed.
MCCOY: Negative. Did you know this is the first time in a week I've had time for a drop of the true? Would you care for a drink, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: My father's race was spared the dubious benefits of alcohol.
MCCOY: Now I know why they were conquered. What are you so worried about, anyway? I find Jim generally knows what he's doing.
KIRK: It was illogical for him to bring those players aboard.
MCCOY: Illogical? Did you get a look at that Juliet? That's a pretty exciting creature. Of course your, personal chemistry would prevent you from seeing that. Did it ever occur to you that he simply might like the girl?
SPOCK: It occurred. I dismissed it.
MCCOY: You would.
SPOCK: Did you know that he suddenly transferred Lieutenant Riley to engineering?
MCCOY: Lots of things go on around here that I don't know, Mister Spock. Now, he's the Captain. He can transfer whoever he pleases. You can look that up in a hundred volumes of space regulations somewhere. All right? Come on, have a drink.
SPOCK: No, thank you.
MCCOY: You're welcome. But I will. And please, Mister Spock, if you won't join me, don't disapprove of me. At least not until you've tried it, huh?

[Observation deck]
KIRK: This is the observation deck. That's the flight deck down there with the shuttle craft.
LENORE: Interesting.
KIRK: Isn't it?
LENORE: Tell me, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Anything.
LENORE: Did you order the soft lights especially for the occasion?
KIRK: If I had ordered soft lights, I'd also have arranged for music and flowers. Unfortunately, it isn't so. On the Enterprise, we try to duplicate earth conditions of night and day as closely as possible.
LENORE: Star light, star bright. I wish I may, I wish I might. Do you remember that, Captain?
KIRK: It's very old.
LENORE: Almost as old as the stars themselves. And this ship. All this power, surging and throbbing, yet under control. Are you like that, Captain? All this power at your command, yet the decisions that you have to make
KIRK: Come from a very human source.
LENORE: Are you, Captain? Human?
KIRK: You can count on it.
LENORE: Tell me about the women in your world, Captain.
KIRK: I'd rather talk about you. You must have wanted to perform since you first saw your father act. When was that?
LENORE: In the beginning.
KIRK: Tell me about it.
LENORE: That's not fair. You haven't answered my question about the women.
KIRK: What would you like to know?
LENORE: Has the machine changed them? Made them just people instead of women?
KIRK: Worlds may change, galaxies disintegrate, but a woman always remains a woman.
LENORE: All this and power too. The Caesar of the stars and the Cleopatra to worship him.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Library computer.
SPOCK: Full personal dossiers on the following names. Doctor Thomas Leighton, Anton Karidian, Lieutenant Kevin Riley, and Captain James T. Kirk.
COMPUTER: Accomplished. Standing by.
SPOCK: Correlate. Check their past histories. Report any item, any past episode or experience they all have in common.
COMPUTER: Affirmative.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: I appreciate whatever concern you may have for the ship's company, Mister Spock,
SPOCK: I will continue, Doctor. According to our library banks, it started on the Earth colony of Tarsus Four, when the food supply was attacked by an exotic fungus and largely destroyed. There were over eight thousand colonists and virtually no food. And that was when Governor Kodos seized full power and declared emergency martial law.
MCCOY: I've heard of it.
SPOCK: You may not have heard it all. Kodos began to separate the colonists. Some would live, be rationed whatever food was left. The remainder would be immediately put to death. Apparently he had his own theories of eugenics.
MCCOY: Unfortunately, he wasn't the first.
SPOCK: Perhaps not. But he was certainly among the most ruthless, to decide arbitrarily who would survive and who would not, using his own personal standards, and then to implement his decision without mercy. Children watching their parents die. Whole families destroyed. Over four thousand people. They died quickly, without pain, but they died. Relief arrived, but too late to prevent the executions. And Kodos? There never was a positive identification of his body.
MCCOY: What has Karidian to do with it?
SPOCK: His history begins almost to the day where Kodos disappeared.
MCCOY: You think Jim suspects he's Kodos?
SPOCK: He'd better. There were nine eye witnesses who survived the massacre, who'd actually seen Kodos with their own eyes. Jim Kirk was one of them. With the exception of Riley and Captain Kirk, every other eye witness is dead. And my library computer shows that wherever they were, on Earth, on a colony, or aboard ship, the Karidian Company of Players was somewhere near when they died.
MCCOY: It's unbelievable.

[Engineering]
RILEY: Hey. Rec room. Somebody.

[Rec room]
RILEY (voiceover): Talk to me.
MATSON: Larry Matson here. Is that you, Riley?

[Engineering]
MATSON (voiceover): What's up?
RILEY: Not me. I am down. In the engineering room.
MATSON (voiceover): You've been a bad boy.
RILEY: Maybe so. Whatever I've done, they're sure keeping it a secret from me.

[Rec room]
RILEY (voiceover): Hey. Is that Uhura playing? Let me talk to her.
MATSON: I think his heart is sore.
UHURA: What can I do for you, Riley?

[Engineering]
RILEY: A song. Make it a love song. Just something to reassure me I'm not the only living thing left in the universe, huh?

[Rec room]
UHURA: Well, you're not, and I'll prove it to you. The skies are green and glowing

[Engineering]
UHURA (voiceover): Where my heart is Where my heart is Where the scented lunar flower is growing Somewhere beyond the stars Beyond Antares.

[Rec room]
UHURA: I'll be back, though it takes forever Forever is just a day Forever is just another journey {Engineering]
UHURA (voiceover): Tomorrow a stop along the way
UHURA (voiceover): Then let the years go fading

[Rec room]
UHURA: Where my heart is

[Engineering]
UHURA (voiceover): Where my heart is Where my love eternal is waiting' Somewhere beyond the stars Beyond Antares.

[Rec room]
UHURA: How'd you like that, Riley?

[Engineering]
RILEY: Help me, please.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: You've got to pull him through.
MCCOY: I'm not sure I can.
SPOCK: If he dies, the only one who'll be able to identify Kodos is the Captain. And he'll be the next target.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 2819.1. Ship's officer Riley's condition worsening. Doctor McCoy making lab analysis to determine cause and antidote. Entire crew deeply concerned.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: As of this date, lab report indicates presence of appreciable amount of tetralubisol, a highly volatile lubricant in use aboard ship.
SPOCK: Someone tried to poison him.
MCCOY: Tetralubisol us a milky substance. Someone could have gotten careless, made a mistake.
SPOCK: I don't believe that and neither do you. I want the Captain to see that report.
MCCOY: When I've finished logging it.
SPOCK: Now.

[Captain's quarters]
KIRK: Come.
MCCOY: My report on Lieutenant Riley.
KIRK: Will he make it?
MCCOY: He's got a good chance.
SPOCK: Can we predict the same for you, Captain?
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock. Let's have it.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Riley was a witness. So were you.
KIRK: All right.
SPOCK: Someone tried to kill him.
MCCOY: Could have been an accident.
SPOCK: You should be told the difference between empiricism and stubbornness, Doctor. I checked with the library computer, just as you did. I got the same information.
KIRK: Aren't you getting a little out of line, Mister Spock? My personal business,
SPOCK: Is my personal business when it might interfere with the smooth operation of this ship.
KIRK: You think that happened?
SPOCK: It could happen.
KIRK: I don't like anyone meddling in my private affairs. Not even my second in command.
MCCOY: Jim, Spock's simply trying,
KIRK: I know what he's doing, and I don't like it.
MCCOY: It's his job, and you know it.
KIRK: And you also know that nothing is proven.
SPOCK: Even in this corner of the galaxy, Captain, two plus two equals four. Almost certainly an attempt will be made to kill you. Why do you invite death?
KIRK: I'm not. I'm interested in justice.
MCCOY: Are you? Are you sure it's not vengeance?
KIRK: No, I'm not sure. I wish I was. I've done things I've never done before. I've placed my command in jeopardy. From here on I've got to determine whether or not Karidian is Kodos.
SPOCK: He is.
KIRK: You sound certain. I wish I could be. Before I accuse a man of that, I've got to be. I saw him once, twenty years ago. Men change. Memory changes. Look at him now, he's an actor. He can change his appearance. No. Logic is not enough. I've got to feel my way, make absolutely sure.
MCCOY: What if you decide he is Kodos? What then? Do you play God, carry his head through the corridors in triumph? That won't bring back the dead, Jim.
KIRK: No, but they may rest easier.
SPOCK: Logic, Captain. Doctor Leighton was murdered while the Karidian Company was on Planet Q. Now an attempt has been made against Riley while the company is on board the Enterprise.
KIRK: Doc isn't sure it was a murder attempt. Besides, I have an idea may prove
SPOCK: Shh. Listen. Do you hear it? That low hum.
KIRK: A phaser.
SPOCK: On overload.
KIRK: This is the Captain. There's a phaser on overload in my quarters. If it blows, it'll take out the entire deck. Evacuate all personnel in this quadrant. Double Red Alert. You get out of here.
SPOCK: You can't stay.
KIRK: Go on. Block off this section. Hurry. I'll find it.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Evacuate this section. Seal it off. Clear section C4 and C5.

[Karidian's quarters]
KIRK: We're overdue for our talk, aren't we?
KARIDIAN: I hoped you would have respected my privacy, Captain.
KIRK: A moment ago, we narrowly averted an explosion which would have destroyed several decks of this ship. Before that, someone tried to poison one of my crewmen.
KARIDIAN: I am sorry to hear that.
KIRK: I'm sure you are. Are you Kodos? I asked you a question.
KARIDIAN: Do you believe that I am?
KIRK: I do.
KARIDIAN: Then I am Kodos, if it pleases you to believe so. I am an actor. I play many parts.
KIRK: You're an actor now. What were you twenty years ago?
KARIDIAN: Younger, Captain. Much younger.
KIRK: So was I. But I remember. Let's see if you do. Read this into that communicator on the wall. It will be recorded and compared to a piece of Kodos' voice film we have in our files. The test is virtually infallible. It will tell us whether you're Karidian, or Kodos the Executioner. Ready for voice test. Disguising your voice will make no difference.
KARIDIAN: The revolution is successful, but survival depends on drastic measures. Your continued existence represents a threat to the well-being of society. Your lives means slow death to the more valued members of the colony. Therefore I have no alternative but to sentence you to death. Your execution is so ordered. Signed, Kodos, governor of Tarsus Four.
KIRK: I remember the words. I wrote them down. You said them like you knew them. You hardly glanced at the paper.
KARIDIAN: I learn my parts very quickly.
KIRK: Are you sure? Are you sure you didn't act this role out in front of a captive audience whom you blasted out of existence without mercy?
KARIDIAN: I find your use of the word mercy strangely inappropriate, Captain. Here you stand, the perfect symbol of our technical society. Mechanized, electronicised, and not very human. You've done away with humanity, the striving of man to achieve greatness through his own resources.
KIRK: We've armed man with tools. The striving for greatness continues. But Kodos
KARIDIAN: Kodos, whoever he was
KIRK: Or is.
KARIDIAN: Or is. Kodos made a decision of life and death. Some had to die that others might live. You're a man of decision, Captain. You ought to understand that.
KIRK: All I understand is that four thousand people were needlessly butchered.
KARIDIAN: In order to save four thousand others. And if the supply ships hadn't come earlier than expected, this Kodos of yours might have gone down in history as a great hero.
KIRK: But he didn't. And history has made its judgment.
KARIDIAN: If you're so sure that I'm Kodos, why not kill me now? Let bloody vengeance take its final course! And see what difference it makes to this universe of yours.
KIRK: Those beautiful words, well acted, change nothing.
KARIDIAN: I suppose not. They're merely tools, like this ship of yours.
KIRK: There are no previous records to Anton Karidian prior to twenty years ago.
KARIDIAN: Blood thins. The body fails. One is finally grateful for a failing memory. I no longer treasure life, not even my own. I am tired! And the past is a blank. Did you get everything you, wanted, Captain Kirk?
KIRK: If I had gotten everything I wanted, you might not walk out of this room alive.
LENORE: Captain Kirk.
LENORE: You'd better rest now. There's a stain of cruelty on your shining armor, Captain. You could have spared him, and me. You talked of using tools. I was a tool, wasn't l? A tool to use against my father.
KIRK: In the beginning perhaps. But later, I wanted it to be more than that.
LENORE: Later. Everything's always later. Later. Latest. Too late. Too late, Captain. You are like your ship, powerful, and not human. There is no mercy in you.
KIRK: If he is Kodos, then I've shown him more mercy than he deserves. And if he isn't, then we'll let you off at Benecia, and no harm done.
LENORE: Captain Kirk. Who are you to say what harm was done?
KIRK: Who do I have to be?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Medical log. Lieutenant Riley's sufficiently recovered to be diskharged, but the Captain's ordered him restricted to Sickbay to prevent contact with the passenger who calls himself Karidian and who's suspected of being Kodos the Executioner and of murdering the Lieutenant's family.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 2819.8. Suspect under surveillance. Strategic areas under double guard. Performance of the Karidian Players taking place as scheduled.

[Ship's Theater]
LENORE: Tonight, the Karidian Players present Hamlet, another in a series of living plays presented in space, dedicated to the tradition of classic theater. Hamlet is a violent play about violent times when life was cheap and ambition was God.

[Kirk's quarters]
SPOCK: I believe we have a match, Captain.
KIRK: But not an exact match, Mister Spock. We're dealing with a man's life. No machine can make that decision.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: In the long history of medicine, no doctor has ever caught the first few minutes of a play. Riley, don't forget to
MCCOY: Riley? Captain Kirk, McCoy here.
KIRK (voiceover): Yes, Doctor.
MCCOY: Riley's gone. I was recording my log about Karidian and Kodos. If he overheard

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: You've made your point, Doctor.
SECURITY (voiceover): Captain? Security, H deck, The weapons locker has been broken into. One phaser is missing.
KIRK: This is the Captain. Security two alert. Find and restrain Lieutenant Kevin Riley. He's armed and possibly headed towards the ship's theater.

[Ship's Theater]
HAMLET: Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak, I'll go no further. KARIDIAN Mark me.
HAMLET: I will.
KARIDIAN: My hour is almost come, when I to sulfurous and tormenting fires must render up myself.
HAMLET: Speak. I am bound to hear.
KARIDIAN: So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear. I am thy father's spirit, doomed for a certain term to walk the night,
KIRK: Riley, get back to the Sickbay.
RILEY: He murdered my father, and my mother.
KIRK: You could be wrong. Don't throw away your life on a mistake.
RILEY: I'm not wrong.
KARIDIAN: But that I am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison house,
RILEY: I know that voice, that face, I know it. I saw it. He murdered them.
KARIDIAN: Thy soul, freeze thy young blood.
KIRK: It's an order. Give me the weapon.
KIRK: Now get back to Sickbay. Go on.
LENORE: It's going beautifully. What is it? What's wrong?
KARIDIAN: There was a voice out of the past haunting me, torturing me. There was another part I once played long ago. I never told you about it. Now that same curtain rises again. The time has come.
LENORE: No, Father. The time will never come. Tonight, after my performance, the last two who can harm you will be gone.
KARIDIAN: What are you saying?
LENORE: There were nine. Now there are only two, and they will be gone as soon as I. Don't look at me like that.
KARIDIAN: What have you done?
LENORE: What had to be done. They had to be silenced.
KARIDIAN: All of them? All seven? More blood on my hands?
LENORE: No Father, not anymore. I'm strong, Father. It's nothing.
STAGEHAND (voiceover): Second act, three minutes.
LENORE: We'll be ready. Don't you see? All the ghosts are dead. I've buried them. There's no more blood on your hands.
KARIDIAN: Oh, my child, my child. You've left me nothing! You were the one thing in my life untouched by what I'd done.
LENORE: But you're safe now, Father. I've saved you. Now, no one can touch you. Not even Captain Kirk. See Caesar come? He's awed by your greatness, your shining brightness. Bright as a blade before it is stained with blood.
KIRK: Bright as a blade. Come with me, both of you.
LENORE: Of course. After the play.
KIRK: The play is over. It's been over for twenty years.
KARIDIAN: I was a soldier in a cause. There were things to be done, terrible things.
LENORE: Stop it, Father! You have nothing to justify.
KARIDIAN: Murder, flight, suicide, madness. I never wanted the blood on my hands ever to stain you.
LENORE: I did it for you. I've saved you.
KIRK: By killing seven innocent men.
LENORE: They weren't innocent! They were dangerous! I would have killed a world to save him!
STAGEHAND (voiceover): Curtain going up, one minute.
LENORE: The play, Captain. He must go on. This is the great Karidian.
KIRK: Guard.
LENORE: You cannot deny him his last performance!
KARIDIAN: Lenore, don't!
KIRK: You'll never get off the ship.
LENORE: It will become a floating tomb, drifting through space with the soul of the great Karidian giving performances at every star he touches. I know how to use this, Captain.
KARIDIAN: No.
LENORE: Caesar, beware the ides of March.
KARIDIAN: No, child! Don't!
LENORE: Father. Father! O, proud, death! What feast is toward in thine eternal cell, that thou, such a prince at a shot so bloodily hast struck? The curtain, the curtain rises. It rises. There's no time to sleep. The play. The play. The play's the thing, wherein we'll catch the conscience of the king.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Medical report. She'll receive the best of care, Jim. She remembers nothing. She even thinks her father's still alive giving performances before cheering crowds. You really cared for her, didn't you?
SPOCK: Ready to leave Benecia orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Leslie. All channels cleared, Uhura?
UHURA: All channels clear, sir.
KIRK: Whenever you're ready, Mister Leslie.
LESLIE: Leaving orbit, sir.
MCCOY: You're not going to answer my question, are you?
KIRK: Ahead warp factor one, Mister Leslie.
MCCOY: That's an answer.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Captain to shuttlecraft Galileo. Stand by, Mister Spock.
FERRIS: I remind you, Captain, I'm entirely opposed to this delay. Your mission is to get those emergency medical supplies to Makus Three in time for their transfer to the New Paris colonies.
KIRK: No problem, Commissioner. And may I remind you that I have standing orders to investigate all quasars and quasar-like phenomena wherever they may be encountered. Besides, it's three days to Makus. And the rendezvous doesn't take place for five.
FERRIS: I don't like to take chances. The plague is out of control on New Paris. We must get those drugs there on time.
KIRK: No problem. Captain to Galileo. All systems cleared for take off.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Power up. All instruments activated. All readings normal. All go.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Launch shuttlecraft.

[Shuttlecraft]
MEARS: Readings normal. Acceleration normal. Phase one separation normal.
SPOCK: Position?
LATIMER: Three point seven. Sir, I
SPOCK: Make up your mind please, Mister Latimer.
LATIMER: Sir, this indicator's gone crazy.
BOMA: That's to be expected, Mister Spock. Quasars are extremely disruptive. Just how much, we don't know.
SPOCK: Considerably, Mister Boma.
MEARS: Mister Spock, radiation is increasing.
SPOCK: Stop forward momentum, Mister Latimer.
LATIMER: I can't, sir. Nothing happens.
SPOCK: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
BOMA: Ionic interference, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: We're being drawn right into it.
SPOCK: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. We are out of control, being pulled directly into the heart of Murasaki three one two. Being hit by violent radiation on outer hull. Course three point two five

[Bridge]
KIRK: Anything at all?
UHURA: Nothing clear, Captain. Just a few words about being pulled off course.
KIRK: Try and get me a fix on the Galileo.
SULU: Scanners are blank, Captain. We're getting a mass of readings I've never seen. Nothing makes sense.
COMPUTER: Negative ionic concentration one point six four times ten to the ninth power meters, Radiation wave length three hundred seventy angstroms. Harmonics upward along entire spectrum.
FERRIS: What is it, Captain?
KIRK: That thing out there has ionized this complete sector. None of our instruments work. At least four complete solar systems in the immediate vicinity. And out there somewhere, a twenty four foot shuttlecraft, off course, out of control. Finding a needle in a haystack would be child's play. Captain's Log, stardate 2821.7. The electromagnetic phenomenon known as Murasaki Three Twelve whirls like some angry blight in space, a depressive reminder that seven shipmates still have not been heard from. Equally bad, the effect has rendered our normal searching systems useless. Without them, we are blind and almost helpless.

[Bridge]
FERRIS: I was opposed to this from the very beginning. Our flight to Makus Three is of the very highest priority.
KIRK: I'm aware of that, Commissioner. At the same time I have certain scientific duties I must perform, and investigating the Murasaki effect is one.
FERRIS: Yes, but you've lost your crew.
KIRK: We have two days to find them.
FERRIS: Two days? ln all that? Two days?
KIRK: What would you have me do, turn around and leave them there?
FERRIS: You shouldn't have sent them out in the first place. Do you know what you've done? You've concerned yourself with only seven people.
UHURA: Captain, there's one planet in this solar system capable of sustaining human life. It's type M, oxygen, nitrogen, and it's listed as Taurus Two. It's unexplored. As far as we can determine with our equipment malfunction, it's just about dead-center of the Murasaki effect.
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Set course for Taurus Two.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
FERRIS: You said something about a needle in a haystack. It's useless.
KIRK: If they're not there, Commissioner, then they're dead by now.

[Shuttlecraft]
MCCOY: You all right?
GAETANO: Yes.
MCCOY: Scotty? Boma?
BOMA: Now that's what I call a ride.
MCCOY: Yeoman?
MEARS: Yes. I just got a little bump on the head.
MCCOY: Upsy-daisy.
MEARS: Thank you.
MCCOY: What happened?
BOMA: I can't be sure, but I'd say that, the magnetic potential of the effect was Thank you. Was such that, as we gathered speed, it was multiplied geometrically. And we were simply shot into the center of the effect. Like a projectile.
SPOCK: I'd say your evaluation is reasonable, Mister Boma.
SCOTT: What a mess.
SPOCK: Picturesque descriptions will not mend broken circuits, Mister Scott. I think you'll find your work is cut out for you. Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
SCOTT: You don't really expect to get an answer, do you?
SPOCK: I expect nothing, Mister Scott. It is merely logical to try all the alternatives. Doctor McCoy, a reading on the atmosphere, please.
MCCOY: Partial pressure of oxygen, seventy millimeters of mercury. Nitrogen one forty. Breathable, if you're not running in competition.
SPOCK: Just the facts, Doctor.
MCCOY: Traces of argon, neon, krypton, all in acceptable quantities. However, I wouldn't recommend this place as a summer resort.
SPOCK: Thank you for your opinion. It will be duly noted. You're recording this, Yeoman?
MEARS: Of course, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, if you'll make a survey of the damage, please.
SCOTT: Logical.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, I think we should move outside, make room for Mister Scott to do his work. Mister Latimer, Mister Gaetano, you'll arm yourselves and scout out the area, keeping in visual contact with the ship.
LATIMER: Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY: What do you think our chances are of contacting the Enterprise?
SPOCK: Under present conditions, extremely poor.
MCCOY: But they'll be looking for us.
SPOCK: If the ionization effect is as widespread as I believe it is, Doctor, they'll be searching for us without instrumentation, by visual contact only. On those terms, this is a very large planet.
MCCOY: Then you don't think they'll find us.
SPOCK: Not as long as we're grounded. We may be here for a very long time, Doctor.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Nothing, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Anything on your scanners?
SULU: Totally inoperative, sir. No readings at all.
KIRK: Have you tried tying in to the auxiliary power?
SULU: Yes, sir. No change.
KIRK: Transport room, this is the captain speaking. Are the transporters beaming up yet?
CHIEF (voiceover): Not one hundred percent, Captain. We beamed down some inert material, but it came back in a disassociated condition. We wouldn't dare try with people.
KIRK: Thank you. This is the captain speaking. Flight deck, prepare Columbus for immediate exit, for a search of the planet surface. Correlate co-ordinates with Mister Sulu. Thank you. Anything, Uhura?
UHURA: All wavelengths dominated by ionization effects, sir. Transmission is blocked, reception impossible.
FERRIS: Well, Captain?
KIRK: We have until 2823.8 to continue the search, Commissioner.
FERRIS: You don't really think you'll have any luck, do you?
KIRK: Look, these people are my friends and my shipmates. I intend to continue the ship's search for them until the last possible moment.
FERRIS: Very well, Captain, but not one second beyond that moment. Is that clear? If it isn't, I suggest you look at book nineteen, section four thirty three, paragraph twelve.
KIRK: I'm familiar with the regulations, Commissioner. I know all about your authority. Launch shuttlecraft Columbus.

[Outside the shuttlecraft]
MCCOY: Well, I can't say much for the circumstances, but at least it's your big chance.
SPOCK: My big chance? For what, Doctor?
MCCOY: Command. Oh, I know you, Mister Spock. You've never voiced it, but you've always thought that logic was the best basis on which to build command. Am I right?
SPOCK: I am a logical man, Doctor.
MCCOY: It'll take more than logic to get us out of this.
SPOCK: Perhaps, Doctor, but I know of no better way to begin. I realize command does have its fascinations, even under circumstances such as these. But I neither enjoy the idea of command, nor am I frightened of it. It simply exists. And I will do whatever logically needs to be done. Excuse me.

[Shuttlecraft]
SCOTT: Very bad, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: In what way?
SCOTT: We've lost a great deal of fuel. We have no chance at all to reach escape velocity. And if we ever hope to make orbit, we'll have to lighten our load by at least five hundred pounds.
SPOCK: The weight of three grown men.
SCOTT: Aye, you could put it that way.
MCCOY: Or the equivalent weight in equipment.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, with very few exceptions we use virtually every piece of equipment aboard this craft in attaining orbit. There's very little excess weight, except among the passengers.
BOMA: You mean three of us must stay behind.
SPOCK: Unless the situation changes radically, yes.
BOMA: And who's to choose?
SPOCK: As commanding officer, the choice will be mine.
BOMA: You wouldn't be interested in drawing lots?
SPOCK: A very quaint idea, Mister Boma, but I do believe I'm better qualified to make the selection than any random drawing of lots.
BOMA: All right, Mister Spock. Who?
SPOCK: My choice will be a logical one, arrived at through logical means.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, life and death are seldom logical.
SPOCK: But attaining a desired goal always is, Doctor. Now gentlemen, I suggest we move outside to make a further examination of the hull in the event we've overlooked any minor damage.
BOMA: If any minor damage was overlooked, it was when they put his head together.
MCCOY: Not his head, Mister Boma, his heart. His heart.

[Rocky ledge]
LATIMER: What is it?
GAETANO: II don't know. It's from up there.
LATIMER: No, it's from back there.
GAETANO: It's everywhere. It's all around us!
LATIMER: Let's get out of here.

[Outside shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Come on, Boma.

[Bottom of the ledge]
SPOCK: What was it?
GAETANO: It was something huge, terrible. Up there. I think I hit it.
BOMA: Did you see what it was?
GAETANO: Vaguely. It was like a giant ape.
BOMA: Poor Latimer.
GAETANO: At least it was quick for him.
BOMA: We'll get off all right.
SPOCK: Nothing there.
GAETANO: I tell you there was.
SPOCK: I don't doubt your word.
GAETANO: But there must be something. I swear I hit it.
SPOCK: Folsom Point.
BOMA: Sir?
SPOCK: There's a remarkable resemblance to the Folsom Point diskovered in 1925, old world calendar, New Mexico, North America. A bit more crude about the shaft, I believe. Not very efficient.
BOMA: Not very efficient? Is that all you have to say?
SPOCK: Am I in error, Mister Boma?
BOMA: You? Error? Impossible.
SPOCK: Then what, Mister Boma?
BOMA: There's a man lying there dead, and you talk about stone spears. What about Latimer?
SPOCK: My concern for the dead will not bring him back to life, Mister Boma.
GAETANO: Mister Spock. In the interest of efficiency, I don't think we should leave his body here.
SPOCK: Bringing him back to the ship should not interfere with our repair efforts. If you need assistance, I
GAETANO: We'll do it. Give me a hand with Latimer, will you? Captain's Log, stardate 2822.3. We continue to search, but I find it more difficult each moment to ward off a sense of utter futility and great loss.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, the Columbus has returned from searching quadrant seven seven nine X by five three four M. Results negative.
KIRK: Have them proceed to the next quadrant. Any word from engineering on our sensors?
UHURA: They're working on them, sir. Still inoperable.
KIRK: What about the transporters?
UHURA: They're still reported unsafe.
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant.
FERRIS: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Commissioner?
FERRIS: I don't relish the thought of abandoning your crewmen out there, however I must remind you
KIRK: I haven't forgotten, Commissioner.
FERRIS: You're running out of time.
KIRK: I haven't forgotten that, Commissioner. This is the captain. Try using overload power on the transporters. We've got to get them working.
CHIEF (voiceover): Aye, aye, Captain.
KIRK: Uhura, order the Columbus to open its course two degrees on every lap from now on.
SULU: But Captain, two degrees means they'll be overlooking more than a dozen terrestrial miles on each search loop.
KIRK: It also means we have a fighting chance to cover the majority of the planet's surface. Mind your helm, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.
FERRIS: Twenty four more hours, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Perhaps if you were to channel the second auxiliary tank through the primary intake valve.
SCOTT: It's too delicate. It may not be able to take the pressure as it is.
MCCOY: This should save us at least fifty pounds, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Excellent, Doctor.
MEARS: We should be able to scrape up another hundred pounds.
SPOCK: Which would still leave us at least one hundred and fifty pounds overweight.
MCCOY: I can't believe you're serious about leaving someone behind. Now whatever it is that's out there
SPOCK: It is more rational to sacrifice one life than six, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'm not talking about rationality.
SPOCK: You might be wise to start.
BOMA: Mister Spock. we're ready.
SPOCK: For what?
BOMA: The services for Latimer.
SPOCK: Mister Boma, we're working against time.
BOMA: The man's dead. He deserves a decent burial. You're the captain. A few words.
SPOCK: Doctor, perhaps you know the correct words for such an occasion.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, that's your place.
SPOCK: My place is here. If you please, Doctor.
MCCOY: Now look. We may all die here. At least let us die like men, not machines.
SPOCK: By dealing with first things first, I hope to increase our chances of staying alive. Well, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: If you'll give me a hand with this conduit.
SCOTT: Pressure's dropping. We're losing everything.
SPOCK: What happened?
SCOTT: One of the lines gave. The strain of coming through the atmosphere and the added load when we tried to bypass. Yes, that's done it. We have no fuel.
SPOCK: That would seem to solve the problem of who to leave behind. Consider the alternatives, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: We have no fuel! What alternatives?
SPOCK: Mister Scott, there are always alternatives.
MCCOY: Mister Spock! Something's happening outside.

[Outside the shuttlecraft]
MCCOY: What do those supersensitive ears make of that, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Wood rubbing on some kind of leather.
GAETANO: They're getting ready. They'll attack.
BOMA: Not necessarily. It could be a simple tribal rite, assuming a tribal culture.
SPOCK: Not a tribal culture. Their artifacts are too primitive. More likely a loose association of some sort.
MEARS: If we knew more about them
BOMA: We know enough. If they're tribal, they'll have a sense of unity. We can use that.
SPOCK: How, Mister Boma?
BOMA: By hitting them hard. Give them a bloody nose. Make them think twice about attacking us.
GAETANO: Yes, I agree. If we stand by and do nothing, we're just giving them an invitation to come down and slaughter us.
SPOCK: I'm frequently appallled by the low regard you Earthmen have for life.
GAETANO: Well, we're practical about it. I say we hit them before they hit us.
SPOCK: Mister Boma?
BOMA: Absolutely.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY: Seems logical to me.
SPOCK: It does, indeed. It seems logical to me, also. But to take life indiskriminately,
GAETANO: The majority.
SPOCK: I am not interested in the opinion of the majority, Mister Gaetano. Components must be weighed. Our danger to ourselves as well as our duties to other life forms, friendly or not. There's a third course.
GAETANO: That could get us killed.
SPOCK: I think not. Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Yes.
SPOCK: You and Yeoman Mears return to the ship. Assist Mister Scott in any way possible. We'll be back shortly.
MCCOY: Right.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, you'll follow my orders to the letter, firing only when so instructed, and at my designated targets.
GAETANO: Now you're talking.
SPOCK: We'll fire to frighten, Mister Gaetano, not to kill.
GAETANO: Oh, for the. You saw what they did to Latimer!
SPOCK: I am in command, Mister Gaetano. The orders and the responsibility will be mine. Follow me.

[Rocks]
BOMA: The mists. I can't see them.
SPOCK: I hear them. They're directly ahead of us. Several, I believe. Direct your phasers to two o'clock and to ten o'clock.
GAETANO: I say we hit them dead on.
SPOCK: Yes, I know. But fortunately, I'm giving the orders. Take aim please, and fire when I give a signal.
SPOCK: Fire. Cease fire. They should think twice before bothering us again.
GAETANO: I still say we should have killed them.
SPOCK: It was not necessary. Fear will do for us what needs to be done. Mister Boma, you will return with me to the Galileo. Mister Gaetano, you remain on guard here. Keep in contact with the ship.

[Shuttlecraft]
MEARS: Did you find them?
SPOCK: Yes, we found them. They won't bother us again.
MCCOY: I hope not. Scotty has an idea.
SCOTT: It's dangerous, but it might work.
SPOCK: Go, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: I can adjust the main reactor to function with a substitute fuel supply.
SPOCK: That's all very well, but we don't have a substitute supply.
SCOTT: Aye, we do. Our phasers. I can adapt them and use their energy. It'll take time, but it's possible.
MCCOY: Trouble is, they happen to be our only defense.
SPOCK: They would also seem to be our only hope.
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: Yeoman, your phaser.
MEARS: But what if the creatures attack again?
SPOCK: They won't attack for at least several hours. By then, with luck, we'll be gone.
SCOTT: If I can get a full load, we should be able to achieve orbit with all hands. Not that we can maintain it long.
SPOCK: We don't have to maintain it very long, Mister Scott. In less than twenty four hours, the Enterprise will be forced to abandon its search in order to make a rendezvous. If we can't maintain orbit after that time, it won't make any difference. If we burn up in a decaying orbit or die here on the planet's surface, we shall surely die. Doctor, your phaser. Go to work, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: They came back all right, sir. In my opinion, the transporters are now safe for human transport.
KIRK: Good. This is the captain. Landing parties one, two, and three, report to transporter room for immediate beaming down to surface of the planet. Ordinance condition One A.
CHIEF: Captain, it's a big planet. It'll be sheer luck if our landing parties find anything.
KIRK: I'm depending on luck, Lieutenant. It's almost the only tool we have that'll work.

[Rocks]
SPOCK: Take this back to Mister Scott for conversion, please Doctor.
BOMA: Nobody knows what's happened to Gaetano, and you hand over his phaser like nothing's happened at all.
SPOCK: And give this to Mister Scott in the event I don't return.
MCCOY: Just where are you going?
SPOCK: I have a certain scientific curiosity about what's become of Mister Gaetano. Return to the ship, please.
MCCOY: I don't know. He'll risk his neck locating Gaetano and if he finds him, he's just as liable to order him to stay behind. You tell me.
BOMA: Do you really think the ship will ever leave?
MCCOY: Well, it won't unless we get these phasers back.

[Shuttlecraft]
MCCOY: Well, Mister Spock, they didn't stay frightened very long, did they?
SPOCK: Most illogical reaction. We demonstrated our superior weapons. They should have fled.
MCCOY: You mean they should have respected us?
SPOCK: Of course.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, respect is a rational process. Did it ever occur to you they might react emotionally, with anger?
SPOCK: Doctor, I am not responsible for their unpredictability.
MCCOY: They were perfectly predictable to anyone with feeling. You might as well admit it, Mister Spock, your precious logic brought them down on us.
MEARS: Why haven't they done anything?
SPOCK: They're studying us, for the moment.
BOMA: Another prediction, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: My opinion, Mister Boma.
SPOCK: Seal the windows!
MCCOY: Studying us, Mister Spock? They seem to learn rather quickly.
BOMA: All right, Spock, you have all the answers. What now?
SPOCK: Mister Boma, your tone is increasingly hostile.
BOMA: My tone isn't the only thing that's hostile, Mister Spock!
SPOCK: Curious. Most illogical.
BOMA: I'm sick and tired of your logic!
MEARS: We could use a little inspiration.
SPOCK: Strange. Step by step, I have made the correct and logical decisions. And yet two men have died.
MCCOY: And you've brought our furry friends down on us.
SPOCK: I do seem to have miscalculated regarding them, and inculcated resentment on your parts. The sum of the parts cannot be greater than the whole. MCCOY A little less analysis and more action. That's what we need, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: How much longer, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Another hour, maybe two.
MCCOY: That won't be long enough.
SCOTT: Doctor, a phaser can only drain so fast.
BOMA: How long do you think those plates will hold out under this? We've got to do something!
SCOTT: You've got your hands full. Captain's Log, stardate 2823.1. Our landing parties are on the surface of Taurus Two. We continue to hope. Instruments are slowly returning to an operable condition as the ion storm slowly disperses. On the ship, we can only wait helplessly.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What word from the sensor section?
UHURA: At last report they were getting some readings
KIRK: I'm not interested in the last report. I want to know now.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
FERRIS: You have two hours and forty three minutes, Captain.
KIRK: I'm perfectly aware of how much time I have left.
FERRIS: I'm delighted. However I shall continue to remind you.
KIRK: You do that.
UHURA: Sir, sensor section reporting. Static interference still creating false images. Estimates eighty percent undependable.
KIRK: What about radio communication?
UHURA: Clearing slowly. Still incapable of transmission or reception.
FERRIS: What do you intend to do?
KIRK: Do? I intend to continue the search. Foot by foot, inch by inch, by candlelight if necessary, until the last possible moment. And if you'd keep your nose off my bridge, I'd be thankful.
FERRIS: I'm sure the authorities will be pleased by your diligence, Captain. I'm not sure they'll appreciate the way you address a High Commissioner.
KIRK: I'm in command here, Mister Ferris.
FERRIS: You are, Captain. For another two hours and forty two minutes.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, how much power do we have left in the ship's batteries?
SCOTT: They're in good shape, but they won't lift us off, if that's what you're getting at.
SPOCK: Will they electrify the exterior of this ship?
SCOTT: That they will, Mister Spock!
SPOCK: Get to the center of the ship. Don't touch the plates. Be sure you're insulated. Stand by. Are you ready, Scott?
SCOTT: Ready, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: All right. Go. Again! Again!
SCOTT: I daren't use any more. Not and be sure of ignition.
SPOCK: I believe we've used enough. Mister Scott. I suggest you continue draining the phasers.
SCOTT: Aye.
MCCOY: It must've worked.
SPOCK: For the moment.
BOMA: For the moment?
SPOCK: The moment they diskover they're not seriously hurt, they'll be back. Meanwhile, please check the aft compartment. See if there's anything you can unload to lighten the ship.
BOMA: Mister Gaetano's body's back there.
SPOCK: It will of course have to be left behind.
BOMA: Not without a burial.
SPOCK: I wouldn't recommend it. The creatures won't be far away.
BOMA: Not without a burial, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: It would expose members of this crew to unnecessary peril.
BOMA: I'll take that chance. You see, Mister Spock, I would insist upon a decent burial even if your body was back there.
MCCOY: Mister Boma.
BOMA: I'm sick and tired of this machine!
SCOTT: That's enough!
SPOCK: Gentlemen. All right, Mister Boma, you'll have your burial, provided the creatures will permit it.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain Kirk, landing party number two has been beamed back aboard ship. They have casualties. One dead, two injured.
KIRK: Put Lieutenant Kelowitz on visual.
KELOWITZ (screen): Kelowitz, Captain.
KIRK: Report.
KELOWITZ (screen): We were attacked, Captain. Huge, furry creatures. I checked with astral anthropology, and they're order 480G, anthropoid. Similar to life forms diskovered on Hansen's Planet, but much larger. Ten, twelve feet in height.
KIRK: There are casualties?
KELOWITZ (screen): Ensign O'Neal got a spear through the body before we even knew they were around. Lieutenant lmmamura has a dislocated shoulder and severe lacerations, but he'll make it all right. Captain, the creatures are all over the place. If the Galileo is down on that planet, I
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. You'd better report to Sickbay yourself.
KELOWITZ (screen): Aye, aye, Captain.
FERRIS: Captain Kirk, check your chronometer. You'll see that it is 2823.8. Your time is up.
KIRK: But they're still out there.
FERRIS: So are the plague victims on New Paris. I'm sorry, Captain. I now assume authority granted me under Title fifteen, Galactic Emergency Procedures, and I order you to abandon search.
KIRK: The Columbus hasn't returned yet. I still have two search parties out.
FERRIS: You're procrastinating, Captain. You have your orders. Recall your search parties and proceed to Makus Three immediately.
KIRK: Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Order the transporter room to immediately beam up the two search parties from the surface. Attempt to contact the Columbus.
UHURA: I'm in partial contact with them now, sir.
KIRK: Then have them return immediately. Mister Sulu, prepare to abandon search. Set course for Makus Three.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplement. The search parties have returned to the ship, and the Columbus is on its way back. I have been compelled to abandon the search.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, the sensor section says the beams are working again.
KIRK: What about the other systems?
UHURA: No, sir. Too much interference.
SULU: Captain, course set for Makus Three.
KIRK: Stand ready, Mister Sulu. How long before the Columbus comes on board?
UHURA: Twenty three minutes, sir.
KIRK: Twenty three minutes.

[Shuttlecraft]
MEARS: Enterprise, this is Galileo. Come in, please. Enterprise. Nothing, sir. Just ionic interference.
SCOTT: That's it.
SPOCK: How about weight?
SCOTT: If we shed every ounce, we might be able to achieve orbit.
SPOCK: And how long can we hold it?
SCOTT: A few hours, no longer. But if we time it right, we can cut out of orbit and save enough fuel for a controlled re=entry.
SPOCK: To land here again? Not a very attractive possibility.
SCOTT: We have very few alternatives, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy. Mister Boma. When can we lift off, Scott?
SCOTT: Maybe eight minutes if the weight's right.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, The ship will lift off in exactly ten minutes. You have that long to bury Mister Gaetano. Now, it appears to be clear outside, at least for the moment. I'll assist you. Hurry.

[Bridge]
UHURA: The Columbus is aboard, sir. The flight hatch is closed. Transporter room reports last of the landing parties have beamed safely up. All systems report secured for warp factors.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, proceed on course for Makus Three, at space normal speed.
SULU: Space normal, sir?
KIRK: Those are my orders. Lieutenant Uhura, order all sensor sections to direct beams aft. Full function, continuous operation until further orders.
UHURA: Yes, sir. {Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Get into the ship! Immediate lift off!
SPOCK: No! Go back! Lift off! Go back! No!
SPOCK: All right, All right! Go! Go! Go! Go!
SPOCK: Go, Scott!
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: I told you to lift off!
MCCOY: Don't be a fool, Mister Spock. We couldn't leave you out there.
SPOCK: Get us off, Scott!
SCOTT: We should be moving, but we're not.
SPOCK: Quite right, Mister Scott. There's somebody holding us down. All systems are go, but we're not moving.
SCOTT: What are you doing?
SPOCK: Our boosters.
SCOTT: We'll never be able to hold orbit.
SPOCK: Would you rather stay here?
SCOTT: No, Mister Spock.
MEARS: We're moving!
BOMA: They let go!
MCCOY: We got off!
SPOCK: May I remind you we have yet to achieve orbit, nor can we maintain it long. An hour from now we may be right back where we started from.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, by coming after me, you may well have destroyed what slim chance you had for survival. The logical thing for you to have done was to have left me behind.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, remind me to tell you that I'm sick and tired of your logic.
SPOCK: That is a most illogical attitude. Orbit in one minute, Mister Scott. Fuel status?
SCOTT: Fifteen pounds psi. Approximately enough for one orbit, sir.
MCCOY: After that?
SCOTT: Tapping our boosters ended our last chance for a soft landing.
BOMA: You mean a burn-up?
SPOCK: It is the usual end of a decaying orbit.
MEARS: I don't want to die up here.
SPOCK: Infinitely preferable to the kind of death we'd be granted on the planet's surface, I should think.
BOMA: I admire your ability to make so measured a choice.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, you said a while ago that there were always alternatives.
SPOCK: Did l? I may have been mistaken.
MCCOY: Well, at least I lived long enough to hear that. Is there anything we can do?
SPOCK: The Enterprise is surely on course for Makus Three by now. I for one do not believe in angels.
MCCOY: Well, Mister Spock, so ends your first command.
SPOCK: Yes. My first command.
SCOTT: Orbit attitude, Mister Spock. With our present fuel, that gives us about forty five minutes.
SPOCK: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise, come in, please. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
SCOTT: Mister Spock!
MEARS: What happened?
SCOTT: He jettisoned the fuel and ignited it.
BOMA: We need that fuel to maintain orbit. Are you out of your mind?
SPOCK: Perhaps, Mister Boma.
MCCOY: How long have we got now, Scotty?
SCOTT: The orbit'll start decaying as soon as the fuel's exhausted. Say six minutes.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, there's something there on screen, at Taurus Two.
KIRK: Sensors, a meteorite?
SULU: No. It's holding a lateral line. There it is again. Holding steady, Captain.
KIRK: A hundred and eighty degrees about, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant Uhura, contact transporter room. All beams ready. Full normal speed.

[Shuttlecraft]
SCOTT: A distress signal? It's like sending up a flare. Mister Spock, that was a good gamble. Perhaps it was worth it.
SPOCK: No one out there to see it.
SCOTT: Orbit decaying, Mister Spock. Ten seconds to atmosphere.
MCCOY: It may be the last action you'll ever take, Mister Spock, but it was all human.
SPOCK: Totally illogical. There was no chance.
MCCOY: That's exactly what I mean.
MEARS: It's getting hot.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Transporters locked in, sir.
KIRK: Activate beams.
SULU: Whatever it was, Captain, it just burned up in the atmosphere.
UHURA: Captain, transporter room just beamed up five persons. Alive and well.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, proceed on course to Makus Three. Ahead warp factor one.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Warp factor one.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: There's really something I don't understand about all of this. Maybe you can explain it to me. Logically, of course. When you jettisoned the fuel and ignited it, you knew there was virtually no chance of it being seen, yet you did it anyhow. That would seem to me to be an act of desperation.
SPOCK: Quite correct, Captain.
KIRK: Now we all know, and I'm sure the doctor will agree with me, that desperation is a highly emotional state of mind. How does your well-known logic explain that?
SPOCK: Quite simply, Captain. I examined the problem from all angles, and it was plainly hopeless. Logic informed me that under the circumstances, the only possible action would have to be one of desperation. Logical decision, logically arrived at.
KIRK: I see. You mean you reasoned that it was time for an emotional outburst.
SPOCK: Well, I wouldn't put it in exactly those terms, Captain, but those are essentially the facts.
KIRK: You're not going to admit that for the first time in your life, you committed a purely human emotional act?
SPOCK: No, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you're a stubborn man.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.

[Stone's Office]
STONE: Maintenance Section Eighteen. The section is working on the Intrepid. Reschedule. The Enterprise is on priority one. That makes three times you've read it, Jim. Is there an error?
KIRK: No. But the death of the crewman.
STONE: Regulations, Captain. And the extract from your ship's computer log confirming this sworn deposition?
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge here. Go ahead, Captain.
KIRK: Where's Mister Spock with that computer log extract?

[Bridge]
UHURA: He should have been there ten minutes ago, sir.

[Stone's Office]
KIRK: Kirk out.
STONE: It's a great pity. The service can't afford to lose men like Lieutenant Commander Finney.
KIRK: I agree. I waited until the last possible moment. We were on Red Alert. The storm got worse. I had to jettison the pod.
KIRK: What took you so long, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, I believe I
STONE: I'll take that.
KIRK: Jamie.
JAMIE: There you are. I just wanted one more look at you. The man who killed my father.
KIRK: That's not so. He was my friend.
JAMIE: Your friend? You hated him all your life! That's why you killed him, you murderer! You murderer! You murderer!
STONE: Mister Spock, would you please?
SPOCK: Miss Finney, come with me, please.
STONE: Captain Kirk, you say you jettisoned the pod after the Red Alert?
KIRK: You have my sworn deposition.
STONE: Then, Captain, I must presume you've committed willful perjury. This extract from your computer log says you jettisoned the pod before going to Red Alert. Consider yourself confined to the base. Official inquiry will determine whether a general court martial is in order. Captain's Log, Stardate 2948.5. Starship Enterprise remains in orbit around Starbase Eleven. Full repairs in progress. I've been ordered to stand by on Starbase Eleven until the inquiry into the death of Lieutenant Commander Finney can be conducted. I'm confident of the outcome.

[Starbase Club]
KIRK: Timothy, I haven't seen you since the Vulcanian expedition. Well, I see our graduating class from the Academy is well represented. Corrigan. Teller. How you doing, Mike?
MIKE: I'll get by, Jim.
TIMOTHY: I understand you're laying over for repairs. Big job?
KIRK: Couple of days.
TIMOTHY: You moving out then?
KIRK: In a hurry to see me go?
TIMOTHY: Oh, I just wondered how long it'd take to get a new records officer.
KIRK: You can talk plainer than that.
TIMOTHY: I can, but I think the point's been made. Ben was a friend of ours.
MCCOY: Come on, Jim. Let's go.
KIRK: Go on. Finish. Ben was a friend of yours, and
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Go on. I'm waiting to hear the rest.
MIKE: Why don't you tell us?
KIRK: What would be the point? You've already made up your minds. Excuse me, Bones.
MCCOY: If you have any doubt, that was indeed Captain James Kirk of the Enterprise.
SHAW: Yes, I know. Are you a friend of his?
MCCOY: In these trying times, one of the few. Doctor Leonard McCoy. And you?
SHAW: Areel Shaw. And I'm a friend, too. An old one.
MCCOY: All of my old friends look like doctors. All of his look like you. Well, you might as well join me for a drink. With this inquiry coming up, he's going to need all the friends he can get.

[Stone's Office]
COMPUTER: Recording inquiry. Matter. Captain Kirk, James T. Subject. Circumstances of death, Lieutenant Commander Finney, Benjamin.
STONE: This inquiry, to determine whether a general court-martial should be convened against Captain Kirk on charges of perjury and culpable negligence.
KIRK: Ready.
STONE: Let us begin with your relationship with Commander Finney. You knew him for a long time, didn't you?
KIRK: Yes. He was an instructor at the Academy when I was a midshipman, but that didn't stand in the way of our beginning a close friendship. His daughter Jamie, who was here last night, was named after me.
STONE: It's common knowledge that something happened to your friendship.
KIRK: It's no secret. We were assigned to the same ship some years later. I relieved him on watch once and found a circuit open to the atomic matter piles that should've been closed. Another five minutes, it could have blown up the ship.
COMPUTER: Ship nomenclature. Specify.
KIRK: United Starship Republic, number 1371.
STONE: Continue.
KIRK: I closed the switch and logged the incident. He drew a reprimand and was sent to the bottom of the promotion list.
STONE: And he blamed you for that?
KIRK: Yes. He had been at the Academy for an unusually long time as an instructor. As a result, he was late in being assigned to a starship. The delay, he felt, looked bad on his record. My action, he believed, made things worse.
STONE: Comment. Service record of Lieutenant Commander Finney to be appended this inquiry.
COMPUTER: Noted.
STONE: Now let's get into the specifics of the storm, Captain.
KIRK: Weather scan indicated an ion storm dead ahead. I sent Finney into the pod.
STONE: Why Finney?
KIRK: His name was at the top of the duty roster.
STONE: If he blamed you
KIRK: He may have blamed me that he never rose to command a ship, but I don't assign jobs on the basis of who blames me. It was Finney's turn, and I assigned him. He had just checked in with me from the pod when we hit the leading edge of the storm. Not too bad at first. I signaled a Yellow Alert. Then we began encountering pressure, variant stress, force seven, the works. I finally signaled a Red Alert. Finney knew he had a matter of seconds. I gave him those seconds and more. But apparently it wasn't enough.
STONE: Then why, Captain, does the computer log from your ship, made automatically at the time, indicate that you were still on Yellow Alert when you jettisoned and not on Red?
KIRK: I don't know. There's been a mistake.
STONE: It would seem so. Could the computer be wrong?
KIRK: Mister Spock is running a survey right now, but the odds are next to impossible.
STONE: Stop recording. Now, look, Jim. Not one man in a million could do what you and I have done. Command a starship. A hundred decisions a day, hundreds of lives staked on you making every one of them right. You're played out, Jim. Exhausted.
KIRK: Is that the way you see it?
STONE: That's the way my report'll read if you co-operate.
KIRK: A physical breakdown. Possibly even mental collapse.
STONE: Possibly.
KIRK: I'd be admitting a man died because
STONE: Admit nothing. Say nothing. Let me bury the matter here and now. No starship captain has ever stood trial before, and I don't want you to be the first.
KIRK: But if what you suspect is true, then I'm guilty. I should be punished.
STONE: I'm thinking of the service. I won't have it smeared.
KIRK: By what, Commodore Stone?
STONE: All right. By an evident perjurer who's either covering his bad judgment, his cowardice, or
KIRK: That's as far as you go, sir. I'm telling you I was there on the Bridge. I know what happened. I know what I did.
STONE: It's in the transcript, and computer transcripts don't lie. I'm telling you, Captain, either you accept a permanent ground assignment, or the whole diskiplinary weight of Starfleet command is going to light right on your neck.
KIRK: So that's the way we do it now? Sweep it under the rug, and me along with it? Not on your life. I intend to fight.
STONE: Then you draw a general court.
KIRK: Draw it? I demand it. And right now, Commodore Stone. Right now. Captain's Log, Stardate 2948.9. The officers who will comprise my court-martial board are proceeding to Starbase Eleven. Meanwhile, repairs on the Enterprise are almost complete.

[Starbase Club]
KIRK: Areel. Doctor McCoy said you were here. I should have felt it in the air, like static electricity.
SHAW: Flattery will get you everywhere. KIRK; It's been, how long has it been?
SHAW: Four years, seven months, and an odd number of days. Not that I'm counting.
KIRK: You look marvelous. You haven't changed a bit.
SHAW: But things have changed for you, haven't they?
KIRK: Oh, you've heard about that, have you?
SHAW: I'm a lawyer in the Judge Advocate's office, remember?
KIRK: I remember. Let's forget it. We have a lot of lost time to make up for.
SHAW: You're taking it very lightly.
KIRK: The confidence of an innocent man.
SHAW: Are you? That's not what the rumors indicate.
KIRK: Look, Let's not talk shop.
SHAW: Jim, this could ruin you. Will you take some advice?
KIRK: I never could talk you into anything. All right. Fire away.
SHAW: The prosecution will build its case on the basis of Kirk versus the computer. Now if your attorney tries to defend on that basis, you won't have a chance.
KIRK: What other choice is there?
SHAW: That's up to your attorney, and that's why he's got to be a good one.
KIRK: You, perhaps?
SHAW: No, I'm busy.
KIRK: Well, a girl with your ability should be able to handle two cases at once.
SHAW: Jim, be serious. You're not an ordinary human. You're a Starship Captain, and you've stepped into scandal. If there's any way they can do it, they'll slap you down hard and permanently for the good of the service.
KIRK: You still haven't made any recommendation.
SHAW: Samuel T. Cogley, attorney at law. If anyone can save you, he can. He'll be paying you a visit. Jim, I've got to go.
KIRK: Areel, you still haven't told me how you know so much about what the prosecution's going to do.
SHAW: Because, Jim Kirk, my dear old love, I am the prosecution, and I have to do my very best to have you slapped down hard. Broken out of the service, in disgrace.

[Kirk's room]
COGLEY: You Kirk?
KIRK: Yes. What is all this?
COGLEY: I figure we'll be spending some time together, so I moved in.
KIRK: I hope I'm not crowding you.
COGLEY: What's the matter? Don't you like books?
KIRK: Oh, I like them fine, but a computer takes less space.
COGLEY: A computer, huh? I got one of these in my office. Contains all the precedents. The synthesis of all the great legal decisions written throughout time. I never use it.
KIRK: Why not?
COGLEY: I've got my own system. Books, young man, books. Thousands of them. If time wasn't so important, I'd show you something. My library. Thousands of books.
KIRK: And what would be the point?
COGLEY: This is where the law is. Not in that homogenized, pasteurized, synthesizer. Do you want to know the law, the ancient concepts in their own language, Learn the intent of the men who wrote them, from Moses to the tribunal of Alpha 3? Books.
KIRK: You have to be either an obsessive crackpot who's escaped from his keeper or Samuel T. Cogley, attorney at law.
COGLEY: Right on both counts. Need a lawyer?
KIRK: I'm afraid so.

[Courtroom]
STONE: This court is now in session. I have appointed as members of this court Space Command Representative Lindstrom, Starship Captains Krasnovsky and Chandra. Captain Kirk, I direct your attention to the fact that you have a right to ask for substitute officers if you feel that any of these named harbor any prejudiced attitudes to your case.
KIRK: I have no objections, sir.
STONE: Do you consent to the service Lieutenant Shaw as prosecuting officer and to myself as president of the court?
KIRK: I do, sir.
STONE: All right, clerk.
COMPUTER: Charge, culpable negligence. Specification in that on Stardate 2945.7, by such negligence, Captain Kirk, James T., did cause loss of life, to wit, the life of Records Officer Lieutenant Commander Finney, Benjamin. To all recorded charges and specifications, what is the plea?
KIRK: Not guilty.
STONE: Proceed, Lieutenant.
SHAW: I call Mister Spock.
COMPUTER: Spock, serial number S179-276SP. Service rank, Lieutenant Commander. Position, First officer, science officer. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Vulcanian Scientific Legion of Honor. Awards of valor. Twice decorated by Starfleet command.
SHAW: Mister Spock, as a First officer, you know a great deal about computers, don't you?
SPOCK: I know all about them.
SHAW: It is possible for a computer to malfunction, is it not?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
SHAW: Do you know of any malfunction which has caused an inaccuracy in the Enterprise computer?
SPOCK: Negative.
SHAW: That answer is based on your mechanical survey of the Enterprise computer ordered by the defendant prior to this trial, is it not?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
SHAW: Now the stardate
SPOCK: But the computer is inaccurate, never the less.
SHAW: Why do you say that?
SPOCK: It reports that the jettison button was pressed before the Red Alert.
SHAW: In other words, it reports that Captain Kirk was reacting to an extreme emergency that did not then exist.
SPOCK: And that is impossible.
SHAW: Is it? Were you watching him the exact moment he pressed the jettison button?
SPOCK: No, I was occupied. The ship was already on Yellow Alert.
SHAW: Then how can you dispute the finding of the log?
SPOCK: I do not dispute it. I merely state that it is wrong.
SHAW: Oh? On what do you base that statement?
SPOCK: I know the Captain. He is in
SHAW: Please instruct the witness not to speculate.
SPOCK: Lieutenant, I am half Vulcanian. Vulcanians do not speculate. I speak from pure logic. If I let go of a hammer on a planet that has a positive gravity, I need not see it fall to know that it has in fact fallen.
SHAW: I do not see what that has to
SPOCK: Gentlemen, human beings have characteristics just as inanimate objects do. It is impossible for Captain Kirk to act out of panic or malice. It is not his nature.
SHAW: In your opinion.
SPOCK: Yes. In my opinion.
SHAW: Thank you. Your witness, Mister Cogley.
COGLEY: No questions.
STONE: You may step down.
SHAW: I now call the personnel officer for the Enterprise.
COMPUTER: Service rank, Ensign. Position, personnel officer. Current assignment, USS Enterprise.
SHAW: In the course of your duties as personnel officer of the Enterprise, you would be familiar with the service records of all aboard?
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
SHAW: With reference to Records Officer Finney, was there in his service record a reported diskiplinary action for failure to close a circuit?
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
SHAW: Was the charge in that instance based upon a log entry by the officer who relieved him?
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
SHAW: And who was that officer?
ENSIGN: Ensign James T. Kirk.
SHAW: Louder, please, for the court.
ENSIGN: Ensign James T. Kirk.
SHAW: Now the Captain Kirk who sits in this courtroom?
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
SHAW: Thank you. Do you wish to cross-examine, Mister Cogley?
COGLEY: No questions.
STONE: You may step down.
SHAW: I now call Doctor McCoy to the stand.
COMPUTER: Service rank, Lieutenant Commander. Position, Ship's Surgeon. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Legion of Honor. Awards of valor. Decorated by Starfleet surgeons.
SHAW: Doctor, you are, on the record, an expert in psychology, especially space psychology. Patterns which develop in the close quarters of a ship during long voyages in deep space.
MCCOY: I know something about it.
SHAW: You have just heard the testimony of your own personnel officer, that it was an action of the then Ensign Kirk, which placed an unerasable blot on the record of the then Lieutenant Finney. Psychologically, Doctor, is it possible that Lieutenant Finney blamed Kirk for the incident?
MCCOY: It's possible.
SHAW: He could have hated Kirk down through the years, blamed him for being passed over for promotion, blamed him for never being given a command of his own, correct?
MCCOY: He could have.
SHAW: Now, let us hypothesize, Doctor. Is it normal for a person to return affection for hatred?
MCCOY: No.
SHAW: Do we not tend to at first resent and then actively dislike the person who hates us?
MCCOY: Wait a minute. I don't quite follow you.
SHAW: Hypothetically. Would not Captain Smith begin to hate Lieutenant Commander Jones once he learned that Lieutenant Commander Jones hated and detested him?
MCCOY: Well, yes, I suppose it could happen.
SHAW: Then I ask you, is it not possible that Captain Kirk became aware of Lieutenant Commander Finney's hatred toward him and perhaps, even involuntarily, began to reciprocate?
MCCOY: Not Captain Kirk.
SHAW: Any normal human, Doctor. Is it possible?
MCCOY: But he's not that kind of a man.
SHAW: Is it theoretically possible, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes. It's possible.
SHAW: Thank you. Your witness, Mister Cogley.
COGLEY: No questions.
STONE: You may step down. Mister Cogley. You've listened to testimony from three witnesses, and in neither instance have you availed yourself of your right to cross-examine. Have you abrogated that right?
COGLEY: Well, sir, the truth is, I've been holding back till we get this preliminary business out of the way. I'd like to call Captain Kirk to the stand.
COMPUTER: James T. Kirk, serial number SC937-0176CEC. Service rank, Captain. Position, Starship command. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Palm Leaf Of Axanar Peace Mission, Grankite Order of Tactics, Class of Excellence, Prantares Ribbon of Commendation, Classes first and second
SHAW: May it please the court.
STONE: Court recognizes counsel for the prosecution.
SHAW: The prosecution concedes the inestimable record of Captain Kirk.
STONE: Mister Cogley?
COGLEY: I wouldn't want to slow the wheels of progress. But then on the other hand, I wouldn't want those wheels to run over my client in their unbridled haste.
STONE: Continue.
COMPUTER: Awards of valor, Medal of Honor, Silver Palm with Cluster, Starfleet citation for Conspicuous Gallantry, Karagite Order of Heroism
COGLEY: Stop. I think that's enough. I wouldn't want to slow things up too much.
SHAW: Thank you.
COGLEY: Now, Captain, despite what these machines indicate, was there indeed a Red Alert before you jettisoned the pod?
KIRK: Yes, sir, there was.
COGLEY: Please tell us about it.
KIRK: Firstly, I am at a loss to explain the errors in the extract from the computer log. We were in an ion storm. Everyone here in this court knows the dangers involved. I was in command. The decisions were mine, no one else's. Charges of malice have been raised. There was no malice. Lieutenant Commander Finney was a member of my crew, and that's exactly the way he was treated. It has been suggested that I panicked on the bridge and jettisoned the ion pod prematurely. That is not so. You've heard some of the details of my record. This was not my first crisis. It was one of many. During it, I did what my experience and training required me to do. I took the proper steps in the proper order. I did exactly what had to be done, exactly when it should have been done.
COGLEY: You did the right thing, but would you do it again?
KIRK: Given the same circumstances I would do the same thing without hesitation, because the steps I took in the order I took them were absolutely necessary if I were to save my ship. And nothing is more important than my ship.
COGLEY: Your witness, Miss Shaw.
SHAW: The prosecution does not wish to dishonor this man, but facts are facts. I must invite the attention of the court and Captain Kirk to this visual extract from the Enterprise computer log. Play back. What you are about to see is precisely what took place on the Enterprise bridge during the ion storm.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Meteorology reports ion storm upcoming, Captain.
KIRK: We'll need somebody in the pod for readings.
SPOCK: Mister Finney is top of duty roster, Captain.
KIRK: Post him.
SPOCK: Attention, Commander Finney, report to pod for reading on ion plates.
FINNEY (voiceover): Message Received.
SPOCK: Officer posted, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by on alert status, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
HANSON: Approaching ion storm, sir.
KIRK: Warp factor one, Mister Hanson.
HANSON: Warp one, sir.

[Courtroom]
SHAW: Reverse. Stop. Go forward with magnification on the panel. Freeze that. Captain Kirk is now signaling a Yellow Alert. Go forward, normal view.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Call from the pod, sir.
KIRK: Tie in.
FINNEY (voiceover): Finney here, Captain. Ion readings in progress.
KIRK: Make it fast, Ben. I may have to go to Red Alert.
FINNEY (voiceover): Affirmative.
KIRK: Hold our course, Mister Hanson.
HANSON: Aye, aye, sir. Natural vibrations, force two, Captain. Force three.
KIRK: Engineering, then ion pod.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering.
KIRK: One third more thrust.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Working.
FINNEY (voiceover): Ion pod.
KIRK: Stand by to get out of there, Ben.
FINNEY (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
HANSON: Force five, sir.
KIRK: Steady as she goes, Mister Hanson.

[Courtroom]
SHAW: Freeze that! If the court will notice, the log plainly shows the defendant's finger pressing the jettison button. The condition signal reads Yellow Alert. Not red alert, but simply Yellow Alert. When the pod containing Lieutenant Commander Finney was jettisoned, the emergency did not as yet exist.
KIRK: But that's not the way it happened. Captain's Log, Stardate 2949.9. The evidence presented by the visual playback to my general court-martial was damning. I suspect even my attorney has begun to doubt me.

[Kirk's room]
COGLEY: Computers don't lie.
KIRK: Are you suggesting that I did?
COGLEY: I'm suggesting that maybe you did have a lapse. It was possible, you know, with the strain you were under. There's still time to change our plea. I could get you off.
KIRK: Two days ago, I would've staked anything on my judgment.
COGLEY: You did. Your professional career.
KIRK: I spent my whole life training for decisions just like that one. My whole life. Is it possible that when the moment came? No. I know what I did. You can pull out if you want to.
COGLEY: There's no place to go, except back to court and hear the verdict.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK: Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I've run a complete megalyte survey on the computer.

[Kirk's room]
KIRK: I'll tell you what you found. Nothing, right?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You sound bitter, Captain.

[Kirk's room]
KIRK: Not bitter enough to forget to thank you for your efforts.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Further instructions?

[Kirk's room]
KIRK: No. It's not all bad, Mister Spock. Who knows. You may be able to beat your next captain at chess. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Chess.

[Kirk's room]
KIRK: Jamie. This is Lieutenant Commander Finney's daughter.
JAMIE: Mister Cogley, we've got to stop this. Make him take a ground assignment. I realize it wasn't his fault. I won't make any trouble. Make him change his plea.
KIRK: It's too late for that, Jamie, but I'm glad you don't blame me anymore for what happened.
JAMIE: I was just so upset that night. I'm sorry.
KIRK: Don't say any more.
JAMIE: But I have to. I never realized how close you and Dad had been until I read through some papers he wrote, letters to Mother and me. I don't know how I ever could've thought that you. Mister Cogley, ruining Jim won't change what's happened.
COGLEY: That's very commendable, Miss Finney, but most unusual. After all, Captain Kirk is accused of causing your father's death, and the evidence would indicate his guilt.
JAMIE: I was just thinking of Jim.
KIRK: I know, and I thank you. I have to go and change. You ready?
COGLEY: No, but I may be getting ready.

[Briefing room]
COMPUTER: Bishop, half level right.
MCCOY: Well, I had to see it to believe it.
SPOCK: Explain.
MCCOY: They're about to lop off the captain's professional head, and you're sitting here playing chess with the computer.
SPOCK: That is true.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, you're the most cold-blooded man I've ever known.
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Doctor. I've just won my fourth game.
MCCOY: That's impossible.
SPOCK: Observe for yourself. Rook to king's pawn four.
COMPUTER: Bishop, half level right.
SPOCK: Now, this is the computer's move. And now mine. Checkmate. Mechanically, the computer's flawless. Therefore, logically, its report of the captain's guilt is infallible. I could not accept that, however.
MCCOY: So you tested the program bank.
SPOCK: Exactly. I programd it myself for chess some months ago. The best I should have been able to attain was a draw.
MCCOY: Well, why are you just sitting there?
SPOCK: Transporter room, stand by. We're beaming down.

[Courtroom]
STONE: Court is now in session. The board will entertain motions before delivering its verdict. Counsel for the prosecution?
SHAW: Sir, the prosecution rests.
STONE: Counsel for the defense?
COGLEY: Sir, the defense rests.
STONE: Mister Cogley. Mister Cogley!
COGLEY: Sir, some new evidence has just been brought to my attention. I'd like to ask the court to
SHAW: Objection! Counsel for the defense has rested his case.
STONE: Of what nature is this evidence?
COGLEY: I can't tell you, I'll have to show you.
SHAW: Mister Cogley is well-known for his theatrics.
COGLEY: Is saving an innocent man's career a theatric? i
STONE: Counsels will kindly direct their remarks to the bench.
COGLEY: I'd be delighted to, sir, now that I've got something human to talk about. Rights, sir, human rights. The Bible, the Code of Hammurabi and of Justinian, Magna Carta, the Constitution of the United States, Fundamental Declarations of the Martian colonies, the Statutes of Alpha Three. Gentlemen, these documents all speak of rights. Rights of the accused to a trial by his peers, to be represented by counsel, the rights of cross-examination, but most importantly, the right to be confronted by the witnesses against him, a right to which my client has been denied.
SHAW: Your Honor, that is ridiculous. We produced the witnesses in court. My learned opponent had the opportunity to see them, cross-examine them.
COGLEY: All but one. The most devastating witness against my client is not a human being. It's a machine, an information system. The computer log of the Enterprise. Can ask this court adjourn and reconvene aboard that vessel.
SHAW: I protest, Your Honor.
COGLEY: And I repeat, I speak of rights. A machine has none. A man must. My client has the right to face his accuser, and if you do not grant him that right, you have brought us down to the level of the machine. Indeed, you have elevated that machine above us. I ask that my motion be granted, and more than that, gentlemen. In the name of humanity, fading in the shadow of the machine, I demand it. I demand it! Captain's Log, Stardate 2950.1. After due consideration, the general court-martial has reconvened on board the Enterprise.

[Briefing room]
COGLEY: How many games of chess did you win from the computer, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Five in all.
COGLEY: May that be considered unusual?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
COGLEY: Why?
SPOCK: I personally programd the computer for chess months ago. I gave the machine an understanding of the game equal to my own. The computer cannot make an error and assuming that I do not either, the best that could normally be hoped for would be stalemate after stalemate, and yet I beat the machine five times. Someone, either accidentally or deliberately, adjusted the programming and therefore the memory banks of that computer.
COGLEY: Could that have had an effect on the visual playback we saw?
SHAW: Object! The witness would be making a conclusion.
STONE: Sustained.
COGLEY: Hypothetically, Mister Spock. Hypothetically, Miss Shaw. If what you suggest had been done, it would be beyond the capabilities of most men. Is that true?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
COGLEY: What man aboard ship would it not be beyond?
SPOCK: The Captain, myself, and the records officer.
COGLEY: And at the moment, you have no records officer.
SPOCK: Affirmative. Until he was lost, our records officer was Lieutenant Commander Finney.
COGLEY: Captain Kirk, will you tell the steps you took to find Mister Finney after the storm?
KIRK: I instituted a phase one search.
COGLEY: Describe a phase one search.
KIRK: It's a painstaking, thorough attempt in and around the ship to find a man who's presumably injured and unable to respond.
COGLEY: It presupposes, does it not, that a man wishes to be found?
KIRK: I beg your pardon?
COGLEY: If you start a search for a man, you assume, don't you, that he wants to be found? He's not hiding?
KIRK: Yes.
COGLEY: On a ship of this size, could a man evade such a search?
KIRK: Possibly.
COGLEY: Gentlemen, I submit to you that Lieutenant Commander Ben Finney is not dead.

[Bridge]
STONE: Mister Cogley, we are waiting for proof of the extraordinary statement you made in the briefing room.
COGLEY: You shall have it, but first I need the co-operation of this court in conducting an experiment. Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Gentlemen, for the purposes of this experiment, it'll be necessary for all personnel, except for members of the court and the command crew, to leave the ship. I am ordering all others to report to the transporter room.
COGLEY: Including myself, sir.
STONE: This court is by no means adjourned, Mister Cogley.
COGLEY: I have an errand ashore of vital importance to the purpose of this court, and I will return.
STONE: Very well.
COGLEY: Thank you, sir.
STONE: Captain, are you maintaining an engine crew aboard?
KIRK: Our impulse engines have been shut down. We'll maintain orbit by momentum.
KRASNOVSKY: And when the orbit decays?
KIRK: We hope to be finished long before that.
KIRK: Ready, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: Gentlemen, this computer has an auditory sensor. It can, in effect, hear sounds. By installling a booster, we can increase that capability on the order of one to the fourth power. The computer should bring us every sound occurring on the ship.
CREWMAN (voiceover): All personnel have left the ship as ordered, sir.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy? All right, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Turn it down a little. Gentlemen, that sound is caused by the heartbeats of all the people on board the ship. Doctor McCoy will use this white sound device to mask out each person's heartbeat so that it will be eliminated from the sounds we are hearing.
MCCOY: First, the Captain. Mister Spock.
MCCOY: And lastly, myself.
KIRK: That's all of us, except for crewman in the transporter room. Mister Spock, eliminate his heartbeat. That accounts for everyone.
STONE: Finney. KIRK; Localize that.
SPOCK: B deck, in or near Engineering.
KIRK: Seal off B deck, sections 18Y through 23D.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
STONE: So Finney is alive.
KIRK: It would seem so. Commodore, this is my problem. I'd appreciate it if no one left the bridge.

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): Sam Cogley had gone a shore to bring Jamie Finney on board. We felt Jamie's presence would make Finney easier to handle in the event Finney really were alive.
KIRK: Ben.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Ben Finney.
HANSON: Mister Spock, encountering variants.
SPOCK: Compensate.
SHAW: What does that mean?
STONE: The orbit is beginning to decay.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Ben, where are you?
FINNEY (voiceover): Hello, Captain!

[Bridge]
FINNEY (voiceover): Nothing to say

[Engineering]
FINNEY (voiceover): Captain?
KIRK: I'm glad you're alive.
FINNEY (voiceover): You mean you're relieved because you think your career is saved. Well, you're wrong.
KIRK: Ben! Ben, it's not too late. We can help you.
FINNEY (voiceover): Like you helped me all along? Kept me down

[Bridge]
FINNEY (voiceover): Robbed me of my own command?

[Engineering]
FINNEY (voiceover): I'm a good officer, as good as you. I've watched you for years. The great Captain Kirk.
FINNEY: They told you to do it to me. You all conspired against me. You ruined me, but you won't do it anymore.
KIRK: Put the phaser down, Ben.
FINNEY: Oh, I wouldn't kill you, Captain. Your own death would mean too little to you, But your ship
KIRK: What about my ship?
FINNEY: It's dead. I've killed it. I tapped out your primary energy circuits.
KIRK: Mister Spock, what's our orbit status?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Decaying, Captain.
HANSON: Variants at second level

[Engineering]
HANSON (voiceover): Depreciating unusually fast.
FINNEY: You're out of power. I know the ship, too. The Enterprise should've been mine. You kept me from it.
KIRK: Ben. Why kill innocent people?
FINNEY: Innocent? Officers and gentlemen, Captains all. Except for Finney and his one mistake. A long time ago, but they don't forget.
KIRK: I logged the mistake, Ben. Blame me, not them.

[Bridge]
FINNEY (voiceover): But they are to blame. All of them.

[Engineering]
FINNEY: I was a good officer. I really was. I loved the service more than any man ever dared.

[Bridge]
HANSON: Mister Spock, we're running out of time.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, if you'll please hurry to the transporter room
STONE: Mister Spock, the court has not yet reached a verdict. We will hear this witness out.
SPOCK: Very well, sir.

[Engineering]
KIRK: It's not too late. You can be helped. But if you kill those people
FINNEY: Why shouldn't I? They killed me, didn't they? It's a fair trade.
KIRK: Is Jamie included in that deal?
FINNEY: What do you mean?
KIRK: She's on board by now. Yes. She's on board.
FINNEY: What? Why did you do that? Why did you bring her here? I'll kill you!
KIRK (voiceover): Beaten and sobbing, Finney told me where he had sabotaged the prime energy circuits.

[Jefferies tube]
KIRK (voiceover): The damage he'd caused was considerable, but not irreparable. With luck, I would be able to effect repairs before our orbit decayed completely.

[Bridge]
HANSON: Power returning, Mister Spock. Up fourteen points and rising.
SPOCK: Activate port impulse engines. One third power.
HANSON: One third power.
UHURA: Variants fading.
HANSON: Orbit stabilizing.
UHURA: All secure, sir.
STONE: Unless the prosecution has an objection, I rule this court to be dismissed.
SHAW: Absolutely no objection, sir.
SHAW: How long will it be this time before I see you again?
KIRK: At the risk of sounding like a mystic, that depends on the stars.
SHAW: Sam Cogley asked me to give you something special. It's not a first edition, just a book. Sam says that makes it special.
KIRK: I didn't have much of a chance to thank him.
SHAW: He's busy on a case. He's defending Ben Finney. He says he'll win.
KIRK: I wouldn't be a bit surprised.
SHAW: Do you think it would cause a complete breakdown of diskipline if a lowly lieutenant kissed a Starship Captain on the bridge of his ship?
KIRK: Let's try. See? No change. Diskipline goes on.
SHAW: And so must the Enterprise. Goodbye, Jim.
KIRK: Goodbye, Areel. Better luck next time.
SHAW: I had pretty good luck this time. I lost, didn't l?
KIRK: She's a very good lawyer.
SPOCK: Obviously.
MCCOY: Indeed she is.

[Starbase 11, outside]
PIPER: Welcome to Starbase Eleven, Captain. The Commodore's waiting to see you. He's curious why you suddenly changed course and came here.
KIRK: We received a subspace message asking us to divert here immediately.
PIPER: This base sent no message, Captain.

[Mendez' office]
MENDEZ: Oh, Jim, I just can't understand this.
KIRK: Mister Spock received a starbase transmission, a message from the former commander of the Enterprise, Fleet Captain Pike, urgently requesting that we divert here.
MENDEZ: Impossible.
KIRK: If my first officer states he received a transmission from
MENDEZ: Jim, I'm not doubting anyone's word. I'm simply telling you it's impossible.
KIRK: Why?
MENDEZ: You don't know? You actually don't know what's happened to Captain Pike? There's been subspace chatter about it for months. I'm sorry to have to be the one to show you. He's upstairs in the medical section.

[Intensive Care Area]
MENDEZ: You ever met Chris Pike?
KIRK: When he was promoted to Fleet Captain.
MENDEZ: About your age. Big, handsome man, vital, active.
KIRK: I took over the Enterprise from him. Spock served with him for several years.
SPOCK: Eleven years, four months, five days.
MCCOY: What's his problem, Commodore?
MENDEZ: Inspection tour of a cadet vessel. Old Class J starship. One of the baffle plates ruptured.
MCCOY: The delta rays?
MENDEZ: He went in bringing out all those kids that were still alive. Just wanted you gentlemen to be prepared.

[Pike's room]
MENDEZ: Captain Pike. Captain, you remember these gentlemen. They wanted to visit you. Two flashes mean no. I thought you might make an exception for them. I'm sorry, gentlemen.
KIRK: Chris, if there's anything I can do for you.
SPOCK: Captain Pike, may I remain for a moment? You know why I've come, Captain. It's only six days away at maximum warp and I have it well-planned. I have never disobeyed your orders before, Captain, but this time I must. I know. I know it is treachery and it's mutiny. but I must do this. I have no choice.

[Mendez' office]
KIRK: Once more, Jose. Spock stated he received a message for us to come here. He entered same in his log. That's all the proof I require.
MENDEZ: And what do those record tapes show? No message sent from here. No message received by your vessel.
KIRK: Then I suggest the record tapes have been deliberately changed. A computer expert can change record tapes, duplicate voices, say anything, say nothing.
MENDEZ: The fact remains that your first officer's former captain is hospitalized, horribly injured, at this base, and that same first officer seems to be the only one who heard that message.
KIRK: If he had wanted to see Captain Pike he could have requested a leave. I would have granted it.
MENDEZ: Well, that's true of course.
KIRK: Who would want to divert us here? There's no trouble in the space sector we're patrolling now. No alien problems.
MENDEZ: Computer Center.

[Starbase Computer Center]
HUMBOLDT: Chief Humboldt here, sir.
MENDEZ (voiceover): Have you rechecked all the record tapes on the date in question?
HUMBOLDT: Yes, sir.
MENDEZ (voiceover): Is there any way at all a message could have been sent from here without us knowing it?
HUMBOLDT: Negative, Commodore. We've checked and double-checked everything possible.
MENDEZ (voiceover): All right. Start checking the impossible. Mendez out.

[Mendez' office]
MENDEZ: Oh, have I introduced Miss Piper, Jim? This is Captain Kirk, Miss Piper.
PIPER: I recognized the Captain immediately. A mutual friend described you, sir. Lieutenant Helen Johansson.
KIRK: Helen described
PIPER: She merely mentioned she knew you, sir.
MENDEZ: You have something to report, Miss Piper?
PIPER: Oh, yes, sir. I'm afraid our investigation turned up very little, Commodore. There is, of course, Mister Spock's years of service with Captain Pike. Indications of his extreme loyalty to this former commander.
KIRK: Miss Piper, a Vulcan can no sooner be disloyal than he can exist without breathing. That goes for his present commander as well as his past.
PIPER: We're forced to consider every possibility, sir. We can be certain Captain Pike cannot have sent a message. In his condition he's under observation every minute of every day.
MENDEZ: And totally unable to move, Jim. His wheel chair is constructed to respond to his brain waves. Oh, he can turn it, move it forwards, or backwards slightly.
PIPER: With the flashing light, he can say yes or no.
MENDEZ: But that's it, Jim. That's as much as that poor devil can do. His mind is as active as yours and mine, but it's trapped inside a useless vegetating body. He's kept alive mechanically, a battery-driven heart.
KIRK: There's no way he could even have asked for that message to be sent?

[Starbase Computer Center]
VOICE (voiceover): Starbase Operations. Starbase Operations. Starbase Operations. Starbase Operations, Enterprise. Standby to receive new orders, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Starbase Operation, Mister Hansen.
VOICE (voiceover): Starbase Operations to Enterprise. Standby to receive new orders. They're to be fed directly into the ship's computers. This is top secret and scrambled.
HANSEN: Enterprise standing by. Request confirmation.
UHURA: Enterprise to Starbase. Request confirmation.

[Starbase Computer Center]
CHIEF: Sir, this is a security area. What are you doing here?
SPOCK: I have security clearance, Chief.
CHIEF: Who gave you clearance? I haven't been notified. You're cross-circuiting the. Whose tapes are these?
UHURA (voiceover): Repeat, Enterprise to Starbase. Orders received. We need operating confirmation from the ship's Captain.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Come in, Starbase. Come in, Captain Kirk.

[Starbase Computer Center]
KIRK (voiceover): This is Captain Kirk. You have confirmation, Miss Uhura.

[Bridge]
HANSEN: Hansen here, Captain.

[Starbase Computer Center]
HANSEN (voiceover): Our destination has been scramble-fed into ship's computers. Er, how can I handle the helm if I don't know where we're going?
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Spock is with me here. He'll answer all questions. Kirk out.
SPOCK: This is Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): The ship's computers will handle the helm on this voyage, Mister Hansen. Course will be computed and set automatically.

[Starbase Computer Center]
SPOCK: You will not diskuss this with ship's crew or starbase personnel. Do you read?

[Bridge]
HANSEN: Acknowledged, sir.

[Starbase Computer Center]
SPOCK: Stand by. We'll warp out of orbit in one hour.

[Mendez' office]
KIRK: He keeps blinking no. No to what?
MCCOY: They've tried questioning him. He's almost agitated himself into a coma.
KIRK: How long will he live?
MCCOY: As long as any of us. Blast medicine anyway. We've learned to tie into every human organ in the body except one. The brain. The brain is what life is all about. Now, that man can think any thought that we can, and love, hope, dream as much as we can, but he can't reach out, and no one can reach in.
KIRK: He keeps blinking no.
MCCOY: No to what? They could question him for days, weeks, before they stumble on the right thing.
KIRK: Bones, could this have anything to do with Spock?
MCCOY: I don't read you at all, Jim.
KIRK: What I mean is either a message was received. It was one of two things. Either someone sent a message diverting us here, or someone on board the ship lied about receiving it. Could that someone be Mister Spock?
MCCOY: Jim, forgetting how well we both know Spock, the simple fact that he's a Vulcan means he's incapable of telling a lie.
KIRK: He's also half human.
MCCOY: And that half is completely submerged. To be caught acting like us or even thinking like us would completely embarrass him.
KIRK: Someone's interfering with my command and my ship. I don't know who it is, but I mean to find out. Even you. If I thought you had the technical know-how I'd suspect you, but you don't. Spock does.
MCCOY: He would not make a false entry.
KIRK: There's a false entry in the log right now which doesn't jibe with the established facts. How do you explain that.
MCCOY: I can't, but to question Spock of all people? Me, yes. I could run off half-cocked given a good reason. So could you, but not Spock. It's impossible.
VOICE (voiceover): Doctor McCoy, report to Transporter Control. Doctor McCoy to Transporter Control.
MCCOY: McCoy here.
VOICE (voiceover): You're needed aboard the Enterprise, Doctor. Medical emergency.
MCCOY: Well, what is it? Sickness? Injury? How bad is it?
VOICE (voiceover): That's all we have on it, Doctor. Just needed aboard.
MCCOY: Probably somebody diskovered a hangnail. I'll beam up and let you know, Jim.
KIRK: For eyes of Starfleet Command only.
MENDEZ: Oh, I'm certifying I ordered you to read it. Know anything at all about this planet?
KIRK: What every ship Captain knows. General Order 7, no vessel under any condition, emergency or otherwise, is to visit Talos Four.
MENDEZ: And to do so is the only death penalty left on our books. Only Fleet Command knows why. Not even this file explains that. But it does name the only Earth ship that ever visited the planet.
KIRK: The Enterprise, commanded by Captain Christopher Pike.
MENDEZ: With a half Vulcan science officer named Spock.
PIPER: Commodore! Captain Pike, he's gone!
MENDEZ: Mendez here. What is it?
VOICE (voiceover): Starship Enterprise, Commodore. It's warping out of orbit. Refuses to acknowledge our signal.

[Bridge]
HANSEN: Out of orbit, Mister Spock. Seems strange with no navigator on duty.
SPOCK: The Enterprise knows where she's going, Mister Hansen.
UHURA: Someone's trying to hail us, sir.
SPOCK: Maintain radio silence, Lieutenant. This is First Officer Spock. Per Starfleet orders this date, I have been placed in temporary command of the Enterprise. While our destination is secret, our mission is relatively simple. Starbase Command has assigned Captain Kirk medical rest leave until our return. His instructions are that you will obey my orders as you would his. First Officer out.
MCCOY: What's going on around here? Who said Jim needed a medical rest leave? And this call about me being needed aboard the ship. I've checked everywhere.
SPOCK: And no one from the ship made such a call.
MCCOY: That's right.
SPOCK: Doctor, I regret they elected to keep certain things from you. Will you come with me, please.

[Pike's quarters]
MCCOY: What is this, Spock? Captain, are you all right? I see that you're still signaling
SPOCK: Doctor, one moment, please.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to Doctor McCoy. I'm recording you this message, Bones, so there will be no misunderstanding. I'm sorry to have to make it an order. You're not to disturb Captain Pike with any questions. Simply take good care of him. Follow Spock's instructions to the letter. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
HANSEN: Sir, scanners report an object following us, about the size of a starbase shuttlecraft. Shall we reverse helm?
SPOCK: Take no action, Mister Hansen.
HANSEN: But at our speed, they'll never catch us. In case they want to reach us
SPOCK: You have your orders, Mister Hansen. We'll make no contact.

[Shuttlecraft]
MENDEZ: Starbase Shuttlecraft one to Enterprise. Come in, please. Enterprise, Commodore Mendez and Captain Kirk. If you read me, you are ordered to reply. Repeating it on all emergency frequencies, Jim.
KIRK: Spock is headed for Talos Four, all right.
MENDEZ: Pulling ahead of us fast. Fuel is down to sixty three point three. If we turn back now, we've just got barely enough to get us back to the base.
KIRK: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise, come in. Shuttlecraft to Enterprise, come in. Enterprise, come in!

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Library computer.
SPOCK: Lock on to sensors. Measure object now following the Enterprise.
COMPUTER: Computed. Object is a Class F shuttlecraft. Duranium metal shell, ion engine power
SPOCK: Stop. How long before shuttlecraft's fuel supply forces return to starbase?
COMPUTER: Computed. Shuttlecraft is already past point of safe return.

[Shuttlecraft]
MENDEZ: We coast.
KIRK: Blast you any way. You had no right to come along.
MENDEZ: RHIP, Captain. Rank hath its privileges.
KIRK: Two hours of oxygen left.
MENDEZ: Wonderful.
KIRK: Part of me is hoping the Enterprise won't come back for us. We step on that deck, Spock is finished. Court-martialed, disgraced.
MENDEZ: He's dead if he makes it to Talos Four. Why would he want to get Pike there? The command reports stated Talos contained absolutely no practical benefits to mankind.
KIRK: Spock would have some logical reason for going there.
MENDEZ: Maybe. Maybe he's just gone mad.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: I keep wondering who might be after us in a shuttlecraft and I keep coming up with the same answers, but I can't be right, can l, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Computer control. Lock on to shuttlecraft following us.
COMPUTER: Locked on. Tractor beam ready.
SPOCK: Go to tape Abel Seven Baker. Execute instructions.
MCCOY: Is it the captain, Mister Spock?
HANSEN: Sir, the engines are reversing. She's brought herself to a dead stop.
SPOCK: This is the First Officer speaking. Security, send an armed team to the Bridge. Transporter Room, stand by to beam Captain Kirk aboard. Effective until then, Lieutenant Hansen is in operational command.
HANSEN: Sir?
SPOCK: First Officer out. Doctor, as senior officer present, I present myself to you for arrest.
MCCOY: You what?
SPOCK: The charge is mutiny, Doctor. I never received orders to take command.
SECURITY: Security reporting, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Doctor.
MCCOY: Mister Spock is, er, under arrest. Is confinement to quarters enough?
SPOCK: Adequate, Doctor. I'll make no trouble.
MCCOY: Well, confine him.
SECURITY: Yes, sir.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Store our shuttlecraft on the hangar deck, Mister Scott. Beam us directly aboard.
SCOTT: All right, Captain. Locked on to you.
HANSEN: Transferring command to you, sir.
KIRK: Accepting command. Where's Mister Spock?
HANSEN: In his quarters, under arrest.
MENDEZ: His quarters, after what he's done, Lieutenant?
UHURA (voiceover): Captain from Bridge. The engines are coming on.
KIRK: Reverse power. Hold this position. Tell whoever gave those orders to report
HANSEN: Sir, there's nobody up there giving orders. Mister Spock has the computers running the ship.
KIRK: Disengage computer control, Uhura.
UHURA (voiceover): We can't disengage, Captain. The helm does not respond.
KIRK: Computer control, come in.
COMPUTER: Computer.
KIRK: Disengage from helm.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.

[Spock's quarters]
KIRK (screen): This is the Captain. On voice command, you will override all contrary instructions. Voice command, disengage from helm.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Any such attempt will cross-circuit vessel's life-supporting system. Computer control cannot be disengaged until vessel reaches planet Talos Four.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3012.4. Despite our best efforts to disengage computers, the Enterprise is still locked on a heading for the mysterious planet Talos Four. Meanwhile, as required by Starfleet General Orders, a preliminary hearing on Lieutenant Commander Spock is being convened. And in all the years of my service, this is the most painful moment I've ever faced.

[Hearing room]
KIRK: This hearing is convened. Mister Spock, you're aware of your right to counsel of your choice?
SPOCK: Sir, I waive counsel. Further, I waive rights to this hearing and request immediate court-martial.
KIRK: Request denied.
SPOCK: May I inquire on what grounds, Captain?
KIRK: A mutiny requires a trial board of no less than three command officers. Since there are only two of that rank available
SPOCK: Sir, I must point out that there are three officers of command rank available. Yourself, Commodore Mendez, and Captain Christopher Pike.
KIRK: Denied. Captain Pike is a complete invalid.
SPOCK: I believe you'll find he's still on the active duty list.
MENDEZ: We didn't have the heart to retire him, Jim. He's got you. Whatever he's up to, he's planned it well.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3012.6. General Court-Martial convened. Mister Spock has again waived counsel and has entered a plea of guilty.
MENDEZ: Mister Spock, are you aware in pleading guilty that a further charge involving the death penalty must be held against you should this vessel enter the Talos star group?
SPOCK: I am.
MENDEZ: Why? What does it accomplish to go there or to take Captain Pike there? I want to know why.
SPOCK: Are your comments a part of the record, sir?
MENDEZ: Yes, it's on the record.
SPOCK: Thank you. Request monitor screen be engaged.
MENDEZ: For what purpose?
SPOCK: To comply with the request you just made, sir, that I explain the importance of going to Talos Four.
KIRK: By asking why, you've opened the door to any evidence he may wish to present. Apparently what he had in mind.
MENDEZ: Present your evidence. Screen on.
SPOCK: This is thirteen years ago. The Enterprise and its commander, Captain Christopher Pike.
SPOCK (screen): Definitely something out there, Captain, headed this way.
KIRK: Screen off. Chris, was that really you on the screen? That's impossible. Mister Spock, no vessel makes record tapes in that detail, that perfect. What were we watching?
SPOCK: I cannot tell you at this time, sir.
MENDEZ: Captain Pike, were any record tapes of this nature made during your voyage? The court is not obliged to view evidence without knowing its source.
SPOCK: Unless the court asks a prisoner why, Commodore. You did ask that question.
MENDEZ: You mean I was maneuvered into asking. Your evidence is out of order.
KIRK: I am forced to contest that, Commodore. I want to see more.
MENDEZ: You have that right, Captain, but just because the prisoner is your First Officer and your personal friend
KIRK: That has nothing to do with it.
MENDEZ: Very well, continue.
KIRK: Screen on, Mister Scott.
NUMBER ONE (screen): No. It's something else. There's still something out there.
SPOCK: As I stated, gentlemen, this was thirteen years ago. We were on routine patrol when the ship's sensors detected something ahead. At first we were not certain what it was.
TYLER (screen): It's coming at the speed of light. Collision course.

[Bridge]
TYLER: The meteorite beam has not deflected it, Captain.
NUMBER ONE: Evasive maneuvers, sir?
PIKE: Steady as we go.
COMM OFFICER: It's a radio wave, sir. We're passing through an old-style distress signal.
PIKE: They were keyed to cause interference and attract attention this way.
COMM OFFICER: A ship in trouble making a forced landing, sir. That's it. No other message.
TYLER: I have a fix. It comes from the Talos star group.
NUMBER ONE: We've no ships or Earth colonies that far out.
SPOCK: Their call letters check with a survey expedition. S.S. Columbia disappeared in that region approximately eighteen years ago.
TYLER: It would take that long for a radio beam to travel from there to here.
SPOCK: Records show the Talos group has never been explored. Solar system similar to Earth, eleven planets. Number four seems to be Class M, oxygen atmosphere.
NUMBER ONE: Then they could still be alive, even after eighteen years.
PIKE: If they survived the crash.
SPOCK: We aren't going to go, to be certain?
PIKE: Not without any indication of survivors, no. Continue to the Vega Colony and take care of our own sick and injured first. You have the helm. Maintain present course.
NUMBER ONE: Yes, sir.

[Pike's quarters]
BOYCE (voiceover): Boyce here.
PIKE: Drop by my cabin, Doctor. What's that? I didn't say there's anything wrong with me.
BOYCE: I understand we picked up a distress signal.
PIKE: That's right. Unless we get anything more positive on it, it seems to me the condition of our own crew takes precedent. I'd like to log the ship's doctor's opinion, too.
BOYCE: Oh, I concur with yours, definitely.
PIKE: Good. I'm glad you do, because we're going to stop first at the Vega Colony and replace anybody who needs hospitalization and also. What the devil are you putting in there, ice?
BOYCE: Who wants a warm martini?
PIKE: What makes you think I need one?
BOYCE: Sometimes a man will tell his bartender things he'll never tell his doctor. What's been on your mind, Chris, the fight on Rigel seven?
PIKE: Shouldn't it be? My own yeoman and two others dead, seven injured.
BOYCE: Was there anything you personally could have done to prevent it?
PIKE: Oh, I should have smelled trouble when I saw the swords and the armor. Instead of that, I let myself get trapped in that deserted fortress and attacked by one of their warriors.
BOYCE: Chris, you set standards for yourself no one could meet. You treat everyone on board like a human being except yourself, and now you're tired and you
PIKE: You bet I'm tired. You bet. I'm tired of being responsible for two hundred and three lives. I'm tired of deciding which mission is too risky and which isn't, and who's going on the landing party and who doesn't, and who lives and who dies. Boy, I've had it, Phil.
BOYCE: To the point of finally taking my advice, a rest leave?
PIKE: To the point of considering resigning.
BOYCE: And do what?
PIKE: Well, for one thing, go home. Nice little town with fifty miles of park land around it. Remember I told you I had two horses, and we used to take some food and ride out all day.
BOYCE: Ah, that sounds exciting. Ride out with a picnic lunch every day.
PIKE: I said that's one place I might go. I might go into business on Regulus or on the Orion colony.
BOYCE: You, an Orion trader, dealing in green animal women, slaves?
PIKE: The point is this isn't the only life available. There's a whole galaxy of things to choose from.
BOYCE: Not for you. A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on, and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away.
PIKE: Now you're beginning to talk like a doctor, bartender.
BOYCE: Take your choice. We both get the same two kinds of customers. The living and the dying.
SPOCK (screen): Mister Spock here. We're intercepting a follow-up message, sir. There are crash survivors on Talos.

[Bridge]
OFFICER: Eleven survivors from crash. Gravity and oxygen within limits. Food and water obtainable, but unless. The message faded at that point, sir.
PIKE: Address intercraft.
TYLER: System open.
PIKE: This is the captain. Our destination is the Talos star group.

[Hearing room]
PIKE (screen): Our time warp, factor seven.
TYLER (screen): Course computed and on the screen.
NUMBER ONE (screen): All decks have acknowledged, sir.
PIKE (screen): Engage.
MENDEZ: Screen off. Mister Spock, I'm truly amazed at your technical prowess in somehow manufacturing all this. I congratulate you on your imagination. But this is a court of space law, not a theater.
SPOCK: Captain, please tell the court this is not imagination, nor some clever photographic record. Are we seeing the actual events of thirteen years ago? Yes, gentlemen. On that screen as it happened, the incredible experience of Captain Christopher Pike on Talos Four. If, after witnessing this, the court wishes to turn this vessel back, I will release this ship to manual control.
MENDEZ: You're in no position to bargain. This is ridiculous. This man mutinied, stole your ship, abducted Captain Pike. Well, for me this has gone far enough.
KIRK: We still haven't heard the full story. I vote to continue.
MENDEZ: And I vote we do not. Deadlock, and since I'm
KIRK: Not a deadlock. There's still one member of the trial board to be heard from.
MENDEZ: Very well. Captain Pike, it's up to you. Do we continue under these conditions?
KIRK: Yes.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log supplemental. Mister Spock, on trial for mutiny, has forced the court to accept unusual evidence. On our monitor screen, the voyage of Captain Pike and the Enterprise to the one forbidden world in all the galaxy.
MENDEZ: Screen on.

[Bridge]
TYLER: We've settled into orbit, sir.
GEOLOGIST: Geological lab report complete, Captain.
SPOCK: Preliminary lab survey ready, sir.
PIKE: Spectography?
GEOLOGIST: Our reading shows an oxygen nitrogen atmosphere, sir, heavy with inert elements but well within safety limits.
PIKE: Gravity?
GEOLOGIST: Zero point nine of Earth.
TYLER: Captain? Reflections, sir, from the planet's surface. As I read it, they polarize out as rounded metal bits. Could be parts of a spaceship hull.
PIKE: Prep a landing party of six. You feel up to it?
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
TYLER: Yes, sir.
PIKE: Sorry, Number One. With little information on this planet, we'll have to leave the ship's most experienced officer here covering us.
NUMBER ONE: Of course, sir.

[Transporter room]
PIKE: There's no indication of problems down there, but let's not take chances.
PITCAIRN: Yes, sir. There's a canyon to the left. We can set you there completely unobserved.
PIKE: Right.

[Planet surface]
CREWMAN: Sir.
OLD MAN: They're men. They're humans.
PIKE: Captain Christopher Pike, United Space Ship Enterprise.
HASKINS: Doctor Theodore Haskins, American Continent lnstitute.
SURVIVOR: Is Earth all right?
PIKE: The same old Earth, and you'll see it very soon.
TYLER: And you won't believe how fast you can get back. Well the time barrier's been broken. Our new ships can
HASKINS: This is Vina. Her parents are dead. She was born almost as we crashed.
PIKE: Enterprise.
NUMBER ONE (voiceover): Landing party, come in.
PIKE: We'll begin transporting the survivors and their effects up to you very shortly.
NUMBER ONE (voiceover): Quarters are being prepared, sir. Have I permission to send out scouting and scientific parties now?
PIKE: Yes, affirmative on the
VINA: You appear to be healthy and intelligent, Captain. A prime specimen.
NUMBER ONE (voiceover): I didn't get that last message, Captain.
PIKE: Er, affirmative on request. Landing party out.
HASKINS: You must forgive her choice of words, Captain. She's lived her whole life with a collection of aging scientists.
BOYCE: If they can, er, spare you a moment, I'd like to make my medical report.
VINA: I think it's time to show the Captain our secret.
BOYCE: Their health is excellent, almost too good.
HASKINS: There's a reason for our condition, but we've had some doubt if Earth is ready to learn the secret. Let the girl show you. We'll accept your judgment.
VINA: You're tired, but don't worry. You'll feel much better soon. Don't you see it? Here and here.
PIKE: I, I don't understand.
VINA: You will. You're a perfect choice.
TYLER: Captain! (everyone rushes over in time to see the door closing in the rock. They fire their phasers at it to no avail.

[Hearing room]
SPOCK (screen): Spock here.
NUMBER ONE (voiceover): Landing party, come in.
SPOCK (screen): There is no survivors' encampment, Number One. This is all some sort of trap. We've lost the Captain. Do you read?
KIRK: What is it?
UHURA (voiceover): It's for Commodore Mendez.
KIRK: Plead signal for you, sir. Go ahead, Uhura.
UHURA (voiceover): Commodore Mendez, urgent. Subspace monitors show Enterprise receiving transmissions from planet Talos Four in violation of Starfleet General Orders.
KIRK: Receiving transmissions from Talos Four? Then the images we've been seeing are
SPOCK: Are coming from Talos Four, sir.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk is here by relieved. You are ordered to assume command of the Enterprise. Disable vessel if necessary to prevent further contact. Message signed ComSol, Starfleet Command.
MENDEZ: Mister Spock, you're aware of the orders regarding any contact with Talos Four. You have deliberately invited the death penalty. You've not only finished yourself, Spock, but you've finished your Captain as well.
SPOCK: The Commodore must be aware that Captain Kirk knew nothing of this.
MENDEZ: And you're aware a Captain is responsible for everything that occurs on his ship. I order you to return this vessel back to manual control.
SPOCK: Sir, I respectfully decline.
MENDEZ: Very well. You've earned the consequences. This court is in recess.
KIRK: Do you know what you're doing? Have you lost your mind?
SPOCK: Captain, Jim, please don't stop me. Don't let him stop me. It's your career and Captain Pike's life. You must see the rest of the transmission.
KIRK: Lock him up. To be concluded next week...

[Recap of part one]
MENDEZ: How do you plead to the charge of unlawfully taking command?
SPOCK: Guilty.
MENDEZ: Of sabotaging the computers of this vessel and locking it on a course for planet Talos Four?
SPOCK: Guilty.
MENDEZ: And of forcibly attempting to transport Captain Pike to that planet?
SPOCK: Guilty.
KIRK (voiceover): Why? Why does Spock want to take to that forbidden world his former captain. Mutilated by a recent space disaster, now a shell of a man, unable to speak or move? The only answer Spock would give was on the hearing-room screen. How Spock could do this he refused to explain, but there before our eyes, actual images from thirteen years ago of Captain Pike as he was when he commanded this vessel, of Spock in those days, and of how the Enterprise had become the first and only starship to visit Talos Four. They had received a distress signal from that planet and diskovered there, still alive after many years, the survivors of a missing vessel, only to find it was all an illusion. No survivors, no encampment, it was all a trap set by a race of beings who could make a man believe he was seeing anything they wished him to see, and Captain Pike was gone, a prisoner for some unknown purpose.
KIRK: And the images we've been seeing are
SPOCK: Are coming from Talos Four, sir.
MENDEZ: Mister Spock, you're aware of the orders regarding any contact with Talos Four. You have deliberately invited the death penalty.
KIRK: Do you know what you're doing? Have you lost your mind?
SPOCK: Captain, Jim, please. Don't stop me. Don't let him stop me. It's your career and Captain Pike's life. You must see the rest of the transmission.

[Hearing room]
KIRK (voiceover): The court-martial of Mister Spock has been convened in closed session. Despite all we can do, images continue to be transmitted to us from Talos Four.
MENDEZ: Starfleet has ordered no contact with Talos Four. They made no exceptions.
SPOCK: You have no choice, sir. I'm sorry. The Keeper has taken over control of our screen. Do you understand, sir? As you saw before, Captain Pike had been knocked unconscious and captured by the Talosians.

[Pike's cage]
PIKE: Can you hear me? My name is Christopher Pike, commander of the space vehicle Enterprise from a stellar group at the other end of this galaxy. Our intentions are peaceful. Can you understand me?
TALOSIAN: It appears, Magistrate, that the intelligence of the specimen is shockingly limited.
MAGISTRATE: This is no surprise since his vessel was baited here so easily with a simulated message. As you can read in its thoughts, it is only now beginning to suspect that the survivors and encampment were a simple illusion we placed in their minds.
PIKE: You're not speaking, yet I hear you.
MAGISTRATE: You will note the confusion as it reads our thought transmissions.
PIKE: All right, then, telepathy. You can read my mind. I can read yours. Now, unless you want my ship to consider capturing me an unfriendly act
MAGISTRATE: You now see the primitive fear/threat reaction. The specimen is about to boast of his strength, the weaponry of his vessel, and so on. Next, frustrated into a need to display physical prowess, the creature will throw himself against the transparency.
PIKE: If you were in here, wouldn't you test the strength of these walls, too? There's a way out of any cage, and I'll find it.
MAGISTRATE: Despite its frustration, the creature appears more adaptable than our specimens from other planets. We can soon begin the experiment.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: The inhabitants of this planet must live deep underground, probably manufacture food and other needs down there. Our tests indicate the planet surface, without considerably more vegetation or some animals, simply too barren to support life.
NUMBER ONE: So we just thought we saw survivors there.
SPOCK: Exactly. An illusion placed in our minds by this planet's inhabitants.
BOYCE: It was a perfect illusion. They had us seeing just what we wanted to see, human beings who'd survived with dignity and bravery, everything entirely logical, right down to the building of the camp, the tattered clothing, everything. Now let's be sure we understand the danger of this. The inhabitants of this planet can read our minds, they can create illusions out of a person's own thoughts, memories, and experiences, even out of a person's own desires. Illusions just as real and solid as this table top and just as impossible to ignore.
TYLER: It's Captain Pike they've got. He needs help.
SPOCK: If we start buzzing about down there, we're liable to find their mental power's so great they could reach out and swat this ship as though it were a fly.
TYLER: Now that entry may have stood up against hand lasers but we can transmit the ship's power against it, enough to blast half a continent.
NUMBER ONE: Engineering deck will rig to transmit ship's power. We'll try blasting through that metal.

[Talosian monitoring room]
TALOSIAN: Thousands of us are already probing the creature's thoughts, Magistrate. We find excellent memory capacity.
MAGISTRATE: I read most strongly a recent death struggle in which it fought to protect its life. We will begin with this, giving the specimen something more interesting to protect.

[Rigel 7]
VINA: Come on, we must hide ourselves. Come, come, hurry. It's deserted. There'll be weapons and perhaps food.
PIKE: This is Rigel Seven.
VINA: Please, we must hide ourselves.
PIKE: I was in a cage, a cell, in some kind of a zoo. I must still be there.
VINA: Come on.
PIKE: They've reached into my mind and taken the memory of somewhere I've been.
VINA: The Kaylar!
PIKE: It's starting just as it happened two weeks ago, except for you.

[Hearing room]
SPOCK: A brilliant deduction by Captain Pike, gentlemen. Yes, he was still inside his cell, but knowing that couldn't help him.
KIRK: The Talosians controlled his brain.
SPOCK: And could make him live any place, any time, any situation they wished. He would see, taste, suffer with the same reality as you gentlemen sitting there.
PIKE (screen): Longer hair, different dress, but it is you, the one the survivors call Vina. Or rather the image of Vina. But why you again? Why didn't they create a different girl?

[Rigel 7]
VINA: Quick. If you attack while it's not looking.
PIKE: But it's only a dream.
VINA: You have to kill him as you did here before.
PIKE: You can tell my jailers I won't go along with it. I'm not an animal performing for its supper.
VINA: It doesn't matter what you call this, you'll feel it. That's what matters. You'll feel every moment of what happens to you.

[Pike's cell]
VINA: It's over.

[Hearing room]
MENDEZ: What is it? Why have they stopped the images?
SPOCK: Because they know that Captain Pike is fatigued. We can reconvene later.
KIRK: Then they care about the Captain.
SPOCK: They want him back alive, sir.
MENDEZ: I demand to know why.
SPOCK: If you'll be patient, the answers to your questions
MENDEZ: You're forgetting you're on trial, Spock. You will answer all questions put to you.
SPOCK: My answer to your question would be quite unbelievable, sir. I regret we'll have to wait and see it there. Personal log, stardate 3013.2. Reconvening court-martial of Mister Spock and the strangest trial evidence ever heard aboard a starship. From the mysterious planet now only one hour ahead of us, the story of Captain Pike's imprisonment there.

[Hearing room]
PIKE (screen): Why are you here?
VINA (screen): To please you.
PIKE (screen): Are you real?
VINA (screen): As real as you wish.

[Pike's cell]
PIKE: No, no. No, that's not an answer. I've never met you before, never even imagined you.
VINA: Perhaps they made me out of dreams you've forgotten.
PIKE: What, and dress you in the same metal fabric they wear?
VINA: I can wear whatever you wish, be anything you wish.
PIKE: So they can see how their specimen performs? They want to see how I react, is that it?
VINA: Don't you have a, a dream, something you've always wanted very badly?
PIKE: Or do they do more than just watch me? Do they feel with me, too?
VINA: You can have whatever dream you want. I can become anything, any woman you, you've ever imagined. You can have anything you want in the whole universe. Let me please you.
PIKE: Yes. Yes, you can please me. You can tell me about them. Is there any way I can keep them from probing my mind, from using my thoughts against me? Does that frighten you? Does that mean there is a way?
VINA: You're a fool.
PIKE: Since you're not real, there's not much point in continuing this conversation, is there?

[Planet surface]
NUMBER ONE: All circuits engaged, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Standing by, Number One.
NUMBER ONE: Take cover.
SPOCK (voiceover): Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
NUMBER ONE: Increase to full power! Can you give us any more?
SPOCK (voiceover): Our circuits are beginning to heat. We'll have to cease power.
NUMBER ONE: Disengage. The top of that knoll should have been sheared off the first second.
BOYCE: Maybe it was. It's what I tried to explain in the briefing room. Their power of illusion is so great, we can't be sure of anything we do, anything we see.

[Pike's cell]
VINA: Perhaps if you asked me some questions I could answer.
PIKE: How far can they control my mind?
VINA: If I tell you, then will you pick some dream you've had and let me live it with you?
PIKE: Perhaps.
VINA: They can't actually make you do anything you don't want to do.
PIKE: But they try to trick me with their illusions.
VINA: And, er, they can punish you when you're not co-operative. You'll find out about that.
PIKE: Did they ever live on the surface of this planet? Why did they go underground?
VINA: War, thousands of centuries ago.
PIKE: That's why it's so barren up there? VINA; The planet's only now becoming able to support life again.
PIKE: So the Talosians who came underground found life limited here and they concentrated on developing their mental power.
VINA: But they found it's a trap, like a narcotic, because when dreams become more important than reality, you give up travel, building, creating. You even forget how to repair the machines left behind by your ancestors. You just sit, living and reliving other lives left behind in the thought record.
PIKE: Or sit probing minds of zoo specimens like me.
VINA: You're better than a theater to them. They create the illusion for you, they watch you react, feel your emotions. They have a whole collection of specimens, descendants of life brought back long ago from all over this part of the galaxy.
PIKE: Which means they had to have more than one of each animal.
VINA: Please.
PIKE: They'll need a pair of humans too. Where do they get intend to get the Earth woman?
VINA: You said that if I answered questions
PIKE: But that was a bargain with something that didn't exist. You said you weren't real, remember?
VINA: I'm a woman as real and as human as you are. We are like Adam and Eve. If we. No, please, no! Don't punish me! I'll die!

[Hearing room]
MENDEZ: An Earth woman? Then you were captured as breeding stock.
KIRK: Why? Just to maintain a supply of zoo specimens?
SPOCK: Much more, Captain.

[Pike's cell]
KEEPER: The vial contains a nourishing protein complex.
PIKE: Is the keeper actually communicating with one of his animals?
KEEPER: If the form and the color is not appealing, it can appear as any food you wish to visualize.
PIKE: And if I prefer
KEEPER: To starve? You overlook the unpleasant alternative of punishment.
KEEPER: From a fable you once heard in childhood. You will now consume the nourishment.
PIKE: Why not just put irresistible hunger in my mind? Because you can't, can you? You do have limitations, don't you?
KEEPER: If you continue to disobey, from deeper in your mind, there are things even more unpleasant.
PIKE: That's very interesting.
KEEPER: Now to the female.
PIKE: You were startled. Weren't you reading my mind then?
KEEPER: As you've conjectured, an Earth vessel did crash on our planet, but with only a single survivor.
PIKE: No, let's stay on the first subject. All I wanted for that moment was to get my hands around your neck.
KEEPER: We repaired the survivor's injuries and found the species interesting.
PIKE: Do primitive thoughts put up a block you can't read through?
KEEPER: It became necessary to attract a mate.
PIKE: All right, all right. Let's talk about the girl. You seem to be going out of your way to make her attractive, to make me feel protective. KEEPER; This is necessary in order to perpetuate the species.
PIKE: Seems more important to you now that I begin to accept her and like her.
KEEPER: We wish our specimens to be happy in their new life.
PIKE: Assuming that's a lie, why would you want me attracted to her? So I'll feel love in a husband-wife relationship? That would be necessary only if you intend to build a family group or perhaps a whole human community.
KEEPER: With the female now properly conditioned.
PIKE: You mean properly punished! I'm the one who's not cooperating! Why don't you punish me?
KEEPER: First, an emotion of protectiveness. Now one of sympathy. Excellent.

[Woodland glade]
VINA: You want some coffee, dear? I left the thermos hooked to my saddle.
PIKE: Tango! You old devil, you. Uh, I'm sorry I don't have any sugar. Well, they think of everything, don't they?
VINA: Is it good to be home?
PIKE: They read our minds very well. Home, anything else I want if I co-operate, is that it?
VINA: My, it turned out to be a lovely day, didn't it? You're home. You can even stay if you want.
PIKE: But we're not here, neither of us. We're in a menagerie, a cage!
VINA: No. PIKE; I can't help either one of us if you won't give me a chance. Now, you told me once they used illusions as a narcotic. They couldn't repair the machines left by their ancestors. Is that why they want us, to build a colony of slaves?
VINA: Stop it. Don't you care what they'll do to us?
PIKE: Back in my cage, it seemed for a couple of minutes that our keeper couldn't read my thoughts. Do emotions like hate, keeping hate in your mind, does that block off our mind from them?
VINA: Yes. They can't read through primitive emotions, but you can't keep it up for long enough. I've tried. They keep at you and at you year after year, tricking and punishing, and they won. They own me. I know you must hate me for that.
PIKE: Oh, no. I don't hate you. I can guess what it was like.
VINA: But that's not enough. Don't you see? They read my thoughts, my feelings, my dreams of what would be a perfect man. That's why they picked you. I can't help but love you and they expect you to feel the same way.
PIKE: If they can read my mind, then they know I'm attracted to you. I was from the very first moment I saw you in the survivor's camp. You were like a wild little animal. VINA; I'm beginning to see why none of this has worked for you. You've been home, and fighting as on Rigel. That's not new to you, either. A person's strongest dreams are about what he can't do. Yes, a ship's captain, always having to be so formal, so decent and honest and proper. You must wonder what it would be like to forget all that.

[Open air party]
TRADER: Nice place you have here, Mister Pike.
PIKE: Vina?

[Hearing room]
KIRK: That's Vina again, as the green Orion slave girl?
MENDEZ: They're like animals, vicious, seductive. They say no human male can resist them.
KIRK (voiceover): Strange evidence from the past, how the Talosians, planning to breed a society of human slaves, tempted Captain Pike with the Earth woman they held in captivity. And as she appeared to him in many forms, each more exciting than the last, Pike was beginning to weaken.

[Open air party]
OFFICER: Suppose you had all of space to choose from and this was only one small sample.
TRADER: Wouldn't you say it was worth a man's soul?

[Transporter room]
NUMBER ONE: Now, you all know the situation. We're hoping to transport down inside the Talosian community.
SPOCK: If our measurements and readings are an illusion also, one could find oneself materialized inside solid rock.
NUMBER ONE: Nothing will be said if any volunteer wants to back out.
SPOCK: The women!

[Pike's cage]
NUMBER ONE: Captain! Captain.
VINA: No! Let me finish!
NUMBER ONE: But we were a party of six.
COLT: We were the only ones transported.
VINA: It's not fair. You don't need them.
PIKE: They don't work.
NUMBER ONE: They were fully charged when we left. It's dead. I can't make a signal. What is it?
PIKE: Don't say anything. I'm filling my mind with a picture of beating their huge, misshapen heads to pulp, thoughts so primitive they black out everything else. I'm filling my mind with hate.
VINA: How long can you block your thoughts? A few minutes, an hour? How can that help?
COLT: Leave him alone.
VINA: He doesn't need you. He's already picked me.
COLT: Picked her? For what? I don't understand.
VINA: Now, there's a fine choice for intelligent offspring.
COLT: Offspring, as in children?
NUMBER ONE: Offspring as in, he's Adam. Is that it?
VINA: You're no better choice. They'd have more luck crossing him with a computer.
NUMBER ONE: Well, shall we do some time computation? There was a Vina listed on that expedition as an adult crewman. Now, adding eighteen years to your age then.
VINA: It's not fair. I did what you asked.
KEEPER: Since you resist the present specimen, you now have a selection.
PIKE: I'll break out of this zoo somehow and get to you. Is your blood red like ours? I'm going to find out.
KEEPER: Each of the two new specimens has qualities in her favor. The female you call Number One has the superior mind and would produce highly intelligent children.
PIKE: All I want to do is get my hands on you. Can you read these thoughts, images of hate, killing?
KEEPER: The other new arrival has considered you unreachable but now is realizing this has changed. The factors in her favor are youth and strength, plus unusually strong female drives.
PIKE: You'll find my thoughts more interesting, thoughts so primitive you can't understand. Emotions so
KEEPER: Wrong thinking is punishable. Right thinking will be as quickly rewarded. You will find it an effective combination.
NUMBER ONE: Captain.
PIKE: No. No, don't help me. I have to concentrate. They can't read through hate.
PIKE: Hold still, or I'll break your neck.
VINA: Don't hurt them. They don't mean to be evil.
PIKE: I've had some samples of how good they are.
PIKE: You stop this illusion, or I'll twist your head off. All right, now you try one more illusion, you try anything at all, and I'll break your neck.
KEEPER: Your ship. Release me, or we'll destroy it.
VINA: He's not bluffing, Captain. With illusion they can make your crew work the wrong controls or push any button it takes to destroy your ship.
PIKE: I'm going to gamble you're too intelligent to kill for no reason at all. On the other hand, I've got a reason. I'm willing to bet you've created an illusion this laser is empty. I think it just blasted a hole in that window and you're keep us from seeing it. You want me to test my theory out on your head?
COLT: Captain.

[Hearing room]
MENDEZ: It seems the Talosians have deserted you.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, a moment, please.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock?
MENDEZ: May I have your verdict?
SPOCK: Signal you want them to wait. Captain, please. It's your life now, at least a chance for life.
KIRK: You keep talking about life, Mister Spock. A chance for life. How? As a prisoner, caged, a zoo specimen, living the illusions that amuse his keepers?
SPOCK: No, Captain. there's more to it. Watch.
MENDEZ: Guilty, yes or no, Captain? Yes. I must also vote guilty as charged. And you, Captain?
KIRK: Guilty as charged.

[Bridge]
HANSEN: Bridge to Commander.

[Hearing room]
MENDEZ: Mendez here.
HANSEN (screen): Sir, we're entering orbit Talos Four.
SPOCK: Talos controls the vessel now, sir, as they did thirteen years ago. You've asked me why. You'll see the answer now.

[Planet surface]
PIKE: Make contact, Number One.
NUMBER ONE: They kept us from seeing this, too. We cut through and never knew it. Captain.
KEEPER: As you see, your attempt to escape accomplished nothing.
PIKE: I want to contact our ship.
KEEPER: You are now on the surface where we wished you to be. With the female of your choice, you will now begin carefully guided lives.
PIKE: And start by burying you?
KEEPER: That is your choice. To help you reclaim the planet's surface, our zoological gardens will furnish a variety of plant life.
PIKE: Look, I'll make a deal with you. You and your life for the lives of these two Earth women. You give me proof that our ship is all right, send these two back, and I'll stay with Vina.
NUMBER ONE: It's wrong to create a whole race of humans to live as slaves.
KEEPER: Is this a deception? Do you intend to destroy yourselves?
VINA: What is that?
PIKE: The weapon is building up an overload, a force chamber explosion. You still have time to get underground. Well, go on! Just to show you how primitive humans are, Talosian, you go with her.
VINA: If, if you all think it's this important, then I can't go, either. I suppose if they have one human being, they might try again.
PIKE: Wait.
TALOSIAN: Their method of storing records is crude and consumed much time. Are you prepared to assimilate it?
KEEPER: We had not believed this possible. The customs and history of your race show a unique hatred of captivity. Even when it's pleasant and benevolent, you prefer death. This makes you too violent and dangerous a species for our needs.
VINA: He means that they can't use you. You're free to go back to the ship.
PIKE: And that's it. No apologies. You captured one of us, threatened all of us.
TALOSIAN: Your unsuitability has condemned the Talosian race to eventual death. Is this not sufficient?
KEEPER: No other specimen has shown your adaptability. You were our last hope.
PIKE: But wouldn't some form of trade, mutual cooperation.
KEEPER: Your race would learn our power of illusion and destroy itself, too.
NUMBER ONE: Captain, we have transporter control now.
PIKE: Let's get back to the ship.
VINA: I can't. I can't go with you.

[Transporter room]
PITCAIRN: Sir, it just came on. We can't shut the power off.
SPOCK: Mister Spock here.
TYLER (voiceover): All power has come on, Mister Spock. The helm is answering to control. ??: The captain.

[Planet surface]
VINA: You see why I can't go with you.
KEEPER: This is the female's true appearance.
VINA: They found me in the wreckage, dying, a lump of flesh. They rebuilt me. Everything works, but they had never seen a human. They had no guide for putting me back together.
KEEPER: It was necessary to convince you her desire to stay is an honest one.
PIKE: You'll give her back her illusion of beauty?
KEEPER: And more.

[Transporter room]
PITCAIRN: Mister Spock, the system is coming on again.

[Hearing room]
COLT (screen): What's happened to Vina?
NUMBER ONE (screen): Isn't she coming with us?
PIKE (screen): No. No, and I agreed with her reasons.
SPOCK (voiceover): All decks prepare for hyperdrive.
NUMBER ONE (voiceover): All decks are ready, sir.
PIKE (screen): Engage.
KIRK: Commodore, don't you think that
KEEPER (screen): What you now seem to hear, Captain Kirk, are my thought transmissions. The Commodore was never aboard your vessel. His presence there and in the shuttlecraft was an illusion. Mister Spock had related to us your strength of will. It was thought the fiction of a court-martial would divert you from too soon regaining control of your vessel. Captain Pike is welcome to spend the rest of his life with us, unfettered by his physical body. The decision is yours and his.
KIRK: Mister Spock, even if regulations are explicit, you could have come to me and explained.
SPOCK: Ask you to face the death penalty, too? One of us was enough, Captain.
KIRK: Yes.
UHURA (voiceover): Message from Starbase Eleven, sir. Received images from Talos Four. In view of historic importance of Captain Pike in space exploration, General Order Seven prohibiting contact Talos Four is suspended this occasion. No action contemplated against Spock. Proceed as you think best. Signed, Mendez, J.I., Commodore, Starbase Eleven.
KIRK: Chris, do you want to go there? Mister Spock, would you care to take Captain Pike to the transporter room, see him off?
SPOCK: Thank you, sir, for both of us.
KIRK: Er, Mister Spock, when you're finished, please come back and see me. I want to talk to you. This regret table tendency you've been showing lately towards flagrant emotionalism
SPOCK: I see no reason to insult me, sir. I believe I've been completely logical about the whole affair. KEEPER [OC] Captain Kirk.
KEEPER (screen): Captain Pike has an illusion, and you have reality. May you find your way as pleasant.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Anything from the landing party?
SPOCK: They should be sending up a report momentarily, Captain. Something wrong?
KIRK: A kink in my back. That's it. A little higher, please. Push. Push hard. Dig it in there, Mister
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman. That's sufficient.
TONIA: You need sleep, Captain. If it's not out of line
KIRK: I have enough of that from Doctor McCoy, Yeoman. Thank you.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy is correct, Captain. After what this ship has been through in the last three months, there is not a crewman aboard who is not in need of rest. Myself excepted, of course.
KIRK: Have Doctor McCoy's report channeled to my quarters, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, aye, Captain.

[Planet surface - Glade]
SULU: Beautiful, beautiful. No animals, no people, no worries. Just what the doctor ordered. Right, Doctor?
MCCOY: I couldn't have prescribed better. We are one weary ship.
SULU: Do you think the Captain will authorize shore leave here?
MCCOY: Depending upon my report and that of the other scouting parties. You know, you have to see this place to believe it. It's like something out of Alice in Wonderland. The Captain has to come down.
SULU: He'd like it.
MCCOY: He needs it. You've got your problems, I've got mine. He's got ours, plus his, plus four hundred and thirty other people's. Where are you going?
SULU: To get some cell-structure records. A blade of grass, a bush, a tree, a flower petal. With these, we can tell the whole planet's biology.
RABBIT: Oh, my paws and whiskers! I'll be late.
ALICE: Excuse me, sir. Have you seen a rather large white rabbit with a yellow waistcoat and white gloves here about?
ALICE: Thank you very much.
MCCOY: Sulu!
SULU: What is it? What's the matter?
MCCOY: Did you see them?
SULU: See what? I don't see anything. What is it, Doc?

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Stardate 3025 er, point 3. We are orbiting an uninhabited planet in the Omicron Delta region. A planet remarkably like Earth, or how we remember Earth to be. Park-like, beautiful, green, flowers, trees, green lawn, quiet and restful. Almost too good to be true.
TONIA: Sir, I don't see your name in any of the shore parties.
KIRK: I may be tired, Yeoman, but I'm not falling apart. Dismissed.
TONIA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, we're beaming down the starboard section first. Which section would you like to go with?
SPOCK: Not necessary in my case, Captain. On my planet, to rest is to rest, to cease using energy. To me, it is quite illogical to run up and down on green grass using energy instead of saving it.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Doctor McCoy calling from the planet, Captain.
KIRK: Yes. Open a channel, Uhura.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.

[Glade]
MCCOY: Captain, are you beaming down?

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: I hadn't planned to, Bones. Why?

[Glade]
MCCOY: Well, either our scouting probes and detectors are malfunctioning, and all us scouts careless and beauty-intoxicated, or I must report myself unfit for duty.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Explain.

[Glade]
MCCOY: On this supposedly uninhabited planet, I just saw a large rabbit

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY (voiceover): Pull a gold watch from his vest and claim that he was late.
KIRK: That's pretty good. I got one for you. The rabbit was followed by a little blonde girl, right?

[Glade]
MCCOY: As a matter of fact, yes.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY (voiceover): And they disappeared through a hole in a hedge.
KIRK: All right, Doctor, I'll take your report under consideration. Captain out. That's a McCoy pill, with a little mystery sugar-coating. He wants to get me down there. I'm afraid I won't swallow it.
SPOCK: Very well, Captain. Something I did come to diskuss.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, what is it?
SPOCK: I picked this up from Doctor McCoy's log. We have a crewmember aboard who's showing signs of stress and fatigue. Reaction time down nine to twelve percent, associational reading norm minus three.
KIRK: That's much too low a rating.
SPOCK: He's becoming irritable and quarrelsome, yet he refuses to take rest and rehabilitation. Now, He has that right, but we've found
KIRK: A crewman's right ends where the safety of the ship begins. That man will go a shore on my orders. What's his name?
SPOCK: James Kirk. Enjoy yourself, Captain. It's an interesting planet. You'll find it quite pleasant. Very much like your Earth.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK (voiceover): Scouts have detected no animals, artifacts, or force fields of any kind. Only peace, sunshine, and good air. You'll have no problems.
TELLER: Does it always have to be work with you? There's so much loveliness.
RODRIGUEZ: You won't find all this so lovely if our report for the Captain isn't ready when he asks for it, which shouldn't be long.
KIRK: Rodriguez, Teller, everything all right?
RODRIGUEZ: Yes, sir. We've completed the specimen survey.
KIRK: Good. That should be sufficient. Beam it up to Mister Spock when you're ready, and start enjoying yourselves.
RODRIGUEZ: Thank you, sir. And sir, I think you'll find Doctor McCoy and Mister Sulu that way.
KIRK: Thank you.
KIRK: Restful. After what we've been through, it's hard to believe a place this beautiful exists.
TONIA: It is beautiful. So lovely, and restful. I mean, affirmative, Captain.
KIRK: McCoy! McCoy!
MCCOY: Over here. Over here.
KIRK: Bones, know any good rabbit jokes lately?
MCCOY: As a matter of fact, I do, but this is not one of them. Look at this. I saw what I saw, or maybe I hallucinated it, but I want you to take a look and tell me what you think about it.
KIRK: Footprints. Could be a rabbit. It would have to be an unusual creature to make this size tracks. What about Mister Sulu? Will he confirm what you saw?
MCCOY: Negative. He was examining the flora at the time.
KIRK: Bridge, this is the Captain.
TONIA: Where is Mister Sulu?
MCCOY: Collecting specimens.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge.
KIRK: Has the first shore party beamed down yet?
UHURA: Negative, Captain. They're just about to start.
KIRK: Get this message to all shore parties. Stand by. No one is to leave the ship.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY: You're canceling the shore leave on account of this, Jim?
KIRK: You're the doctor, Doctor. Can you explain this?
MCCOY: Well, no.
KIRK: Neither can I. I admit it looks harmless. It probably is harmless. But before I bring my people down here, I want proof it's harmless.

[Woodland path]
KIRK: What do you think you're doing?
SULU: Target shooting, Captain. Isn't it a beauty? Haven't got anything like this in my collection.
KIRK: Where did you get it, Mister Sulu?
SULU: I found it. I know it's a crazy coincidence, but I've always wanted one like this. Found it lying right over there. An old-time police special, and in beautiful condition. Hasn't been one like this made in a couple of centuries.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.
SULU: It fires lead pellets propelled by expanding gasses from a chemical explosion.
KIRK: I'll hang on to it. The fresh air seems to have made you trigger-happy.
TONIA: Doctor McCoy's rabbit, sir. He must have gone through here.
KIRK: Are you sure our instruments didn't show any animal life on this planet?
MCCOY: Absolutely. No birds, no mammals, no insects, nothing. I'm certain our readings weren't off.
KIRK: I'd like to believe this is an elaborate gag, but. Yeoman Barrows, you accompany Mister Sulu. Find out where those tracks came from. Doctor, you come with me back to the glade. I'd like another look at that area.
KIRK: This is turning out to be one very unusual shore leave.
MCCOY: Well, it could have been worse.
KIRK: How?
MCCOY: You could have seen the rabbit.
KIRK: What's the matter, Bones, you getting a persecution complex?
MCCOY: Well, yeah, I'm beginning to feel a little bit picked on, if that's what you mean.
KIRK: I know the feeling very well. I had it at the Academy. An upper classman there. One practical joke after another, and always on me. My own personal devil. A guy by the name of Finnegan.
MCCOY: And you being the very serious young
KIRK: Serious? I'll make a confession, Bones. I was absolutely grim, which delighted Finnegan no end. He's the kind of guy to put a bowl of cold soup in your bed or a bucket of water propped on a half-open door. You never knew where he'd strike next. More tracks. Looks like your rabbit came from over there.
MCCOY: A girl's footprints. The young blonde girl I saw chasing it.
KIRK: Yes. You follow the rabbit. I'll backtrack the girl. I'll meet you around the other side of the hill.
MCCOY: Good. I've got a personal grudge against that rabbit, Jim.
FINNEGAN: Jim.
KIRK: Finnegan? I can't believe it.
FINNEGAN: You never know when I'm going to strike, huh, Jim? How's this? Come on, come on. It's me, Finnegan. All right, Jimmy boy. Go ahead, lay one on me. That's what you always wanted, isn't it? Come on. Come on.
KIRK: All right, let's try that one again. Go!
FINNEGAN: Go! Any excuse, Jim baby. Run away! Run away! Run away!
MCCOY: What was it?
KIRK: Yeoman Barrows.
KIRK: What happened?
TONIA: I don't know. I mean I do know. I was following the tracks, and there he was.
KIRK: Who was?
TONIA: Him.
KIRK: Barrows, give me a report.
TONIA: He had a cloak, sir, and a dagger with jewels on it.
KIRK: Are you sure you're not imagining all this?
TONIA: Captain, I know it sounds incredible, but I did not imagine it any more than I imagined he did this.
MCCOY: Sounds like Don Juan.
TONIA: Yes. Yes. It was so sort of story book walking around here, and I was thinking, all a girl needs is Don Juan. Just day dreaming, the way you would about someone you'd like to meet.
KIRK: Mister Sulu was with you. Where is he now?
TONIA: He ran after him.
KIRK: Stay with her, Doctor.
KIRK: Mister Sulu! Sulu!
KIRK: Mister Sulu! Sulu!

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: Sulu!
KIRK: Ruth? Ruth.
RUTH: Jim, darling, it is me. It is Ruth.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Stardate 3025.8. Investigation of this increasingly unusual planet continues, and we are seeing things that cannot possibly exist, yet they are undeniably real.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: McCoy, do you read me? Ruth. Ruth, how can it be you? How could you possibly be here? You haven't aged. It's been fifteen years.
RUTH: It doesn't matter. None of that matters.
KIRK: Kirk here.
MCCOY (voiceover): Did you find Mister Sulu, Captain?
KIRK: What?
MCCOY (voiceover): Did you find Mister Sulu?
KIRK: No, but I'm sure he's all right.
MCCOY (voiceover): Sir? Are you all right?
KIRK: Yes, I'm fine.
RODRIQUEZ (voiceover): Rodriguez to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Rodriguez.
RODRIQUEZ (voiceover): Captain, a while ago, I saw well, birds, a whole flock of them.
KIRK: Don't you like birds, Mister Rodriguez?
RODRIQUEZ (voiceover): I like them fine, sir, but all our surveys showed KIRK; Then offhand I'd say our instruments are defective. There are indeed life-forms on this planet.
RODRIQUEZ (voiceover): Sir, our surveys couldn't have been that wrong.
KIRK: Mister Rodriguez, have the search parties rendezvous at the glade. I'd like some answers to all this.
RODRIQUEZ (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
RUTH: You have to go?
KIRK: I don't want to.
RUTH: You'll see me again if you want to.
KIRK: You haven't told me. You haven't told me
RUTH: Do what you have to do, and I'll be waiting.
KIRK: Ruth.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I'm getting strange readings from the planet surface, Captain. Some sort of power field down there.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: Specify.
SPOCK (voiceover): A highly sophisticated type of energy draining our power and increasing, beginning to affect our communications.
KIRK: Can you pinpoint the source?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Could be coming from beneath the planet's surface. Patterns indicate some sort of industrial activity.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: Keep me posted, Mister Spock. We'll continue our investigation down here. Captain out.

[Woodland path]
MCCOY: Feeling better?
TONIA: A little, but I wouldn't want to be alone here.
MCCOY: It's a beautiful place. A little strange, I'll admit.
TONIA: That's just it. It's almost too beautiful. I was thinking, even before my tunic was torn, that in a place like this a girl should be, oh let's see now, a girl should be dressed like a fairy-tale princess, with lots of floaty stuff and a tall hat with a veil.
MCCOY: I see what you mean, but then you'd have whole armies of Don Juans to fight off. And me, too.
TONIA: Is that a promise, Doctor?
TONIA: Oh, Doctor, they're lovely. Look at me, Doctor. A lady to be protected and fought for. A princess of the blood royale.
MCCOY: You are all of those things and many more. They'll look even lovelier with you wearing them.
TONIA: Doctor, I'm afraid.
MCCOY: Now, look, I don't know how or why, but the dress is here. I'd like to see you in it. Why don't you put it on?
TONIA: All right, but you stay right there. Don't peek.
MCCOY: My dear girl, I am a doctor. When I peek, it's in the line of duty.
RODRIGUEZ (voiceover): Calling Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: McCoy here. I can't read you very well. Is this Rodriguez?
RODRIGUEZ (voiceover): This is all the volume I can get on this thing. Can't read you well, either. Captain's orders. Rendezvous at that glade where he first found you.
MCCOY: Right. What the devil's wrong with communications? Esteban. Esteban.
RODRIQUEZ: Doctor. Doctor. Doctor McCoy!

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): You're the science officer, Mister Spock. I want some answers.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: First there was McCoy's Alice in Wonderland where there was supposedly no animal life. And Sulu's gun where there's no refined metal detected. Rodriguez' birds. And then my, well, the two people I saw.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Any chance these could be hallucinations?

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: One hallucination flattened me with a clout on the jaw.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): The other.
SPOCK: That sounds like a painful reality.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: Yes.
SPOCK (voiceover): There must be some logical explanation.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your signal is very weak. Can you turn up your gain?
KIRK (voiceover): I'm already on maximum.
SPOCK: Captain, shall I beam down an armed party?

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: Negative. Our people here are armed with phasers. Besides, there's yet to be any real danger. Captain out.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: McCoy. McCoy, do you read me? Kirk to McCoy. Come in.
SULU: Captain, take cover! There's a Samurai after me.
KIRK: A what?
SULU: I mean, there was. Captain, you've got to believe me.
KIRK: I do. I've met some interesting personalities myself. Have you seen any of the others while I've been gone?
SULU: Got a call a few minutes ago. Rodriguez. Said you were rendezvousing back at the glade.
KIRK: I hope he got through to everybody. Communications are almost out.
SULU: That's not all. So's my phaser.
KIRK: Yeah. We'd better get to the glade.
SULU: Yes, sir. Look. Someone beaming down from the bridge.
KIRK: Trying to. Something's obstructing it. Mister Spock, my orders were no one was to leave the ship.
SPOCK: Necessary, Captain. Unable to contact you by communicator, and the transporter is useless to us now. As I told you before, there's an unusual power field down here. It's soaking up all the energy at the source. I calculated the rate of its growth, and reasoned that I just might be able to transport one more person.
KIRK: Good. We can use your help.
SULU: We're stranded down here, Captain?
KIRK: Until we can find out what this is all about.

[Glade]
TONIA: There's no one here.
MCCOY: This is where the Captain said to rendezvous. I swear I heard someone moving around.
TONIA: Don't talk like that.
MCCOY: A princess shouldn't be afraid, not with a brave knight to protect her.

[Rocky outcrop]
KIRK: That way. Spread out. Let's find it.

[Glade]
MCCOY: These things cannot be real. Hallucinations can't harm us. Go back to where you were.
TONIA: He's dead.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. All contact with the Enterprise has been lost. We're trapped here. Our ship's surgeon, my personal friend, is dead. We're certain now that whatever we're facing is terribly real.

[Glade]
TONIA: It's my fault. It never would have happened. It's my fault.
KIRK: No.
TONIA: It is, it is. I'm to blame.
KIRK: Yeoman! We're in trouble. I need every crewman alert and thinking.
TONIA: Aye, aye, sir.
SULU: Captain! Captain!
SULU: You'd better have a look at this, sir. I don't understand.
KIRK: Neither do I, Mister Sulu, but before we leave this planet, I will.
SULU: It's like a dummy, Captain. It couldn't be alive.
KIRK: Tricorder?
SULU: Still operating, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock. What do you make of that?
SPOCK: This is not human skin tissue, Captain. It more closely resembles the cellular casting we use for wound repairs. Much finer, of course.
KIRK: I want an exact judgment, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: This is definitely a mechanical contrivance. It has the same basic cell structure as the plants here, even the trees, the grass.
KIRK: Are you saying this is a plant, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I'm saying that these are all multicellular castings. The plants, the animals, the people. They're all being manufactured.
KIRK: By who? And why? And why these particular things?
SPOCK: All we know for certain is that they act exactly like the real thing. Just as pleasant or just as deadly.

[Woodland path]
TELLER: What is it?
RODRIGUEZ: Of all the crazy things. Remember what I was telling you a while ago, about the early wars and funny air vehicles they used? That's one of them.
TELLER: Can it hurt us?
RODRIGUEZ: Not unless it makes a strafing run.
TELLER: A what?
RODRIGUEZ: The way they used to attack people on the ground. Come on.
RODRIGUEZ: Angela.

[Glade]
SULU: Captain!
KIRK: McCoy's body?
SULU: He's gone. Dragged off.
TONIA: The black knight, too.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: At this point, Captain, my analysis may not sound very scientific.
KIRK: McCoy's death is a scientific fact.
SPOCK: There is one slight possibility, very slim, but nevertheless. Captain, what were your thoughts just before you encountered the people you described?
KIRK: I was, I was thinking about the Academy. My days
FINNEGAN: Hey, Jim baby! I see you brought out reinforcements. Ha! Well, I'm waiting for you, Jimmy boy.
KIRK: Finnegan. Finnegan! What's been happening to my people?
KIRK: Take Sulu. Find McCoy's body. This man is my problem.
SPOCK: Captain, wait.
KIRK: That's an order, Mister Spock.
FINNEGAN: Here I am! Run!

[Rocky outcrop]
FINNEGAN: Jim! Find me! Can't you see me? Come and get me! Here I am! Come on. You never could find your head with both hands! Like it used to be, Jimmy. Remember? Hey, Jim
KIRK: I want some answers.
FINNEGAN: Coming up.
FINNEGAN: Get up. Get up. Get up. Always fight fair, don't you? True officer and gentleman, you. You stupid underclassman. I've got the edge. I'm still twenty years old. Look at you. You're an old man.
FINNEGAN: I can't move me leg. I can't feel me leg. My back is broken. You've broken me back.
KIRK: Can you feel that?
FINNEGAN: Can you feel that, now? Sleep sweet, Jimmy boy. Sleep as long as you like. Sleep forever, Jim boy. Forever and forever.
FINNEGAN: Won't you ever learn, Jim boy? You never could take me, you know.
KIRK: Finnegan. One thing
FINNEGAN: Sure. Name it.
KIRK: Answers.
FINNEGAN: Earn them!
FINNEGAN: Not bad. Kind of makes up for things, huh, Jim?
KIRK: A lot of things. What's been happening to my people?
FINNEGAN: I never answer questions from plebes, Jimmy boy.
KIRK: I'm not a plebe. This is today, fifteen years later. What are you doing here?
FINNEGAN: I'm being exactly what you expect me to be, Jimmy boy.
SPOCK: Did you enjoy it, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, I enjoyed it. After all these years. I did enjoy it. The one thing I wanted to do after all these years was to beat the tar out of Finnegan.
SPOCK: Which supports a theory I've been formulating.
KIRK: That we're all meeting people and things that we happen to be thinking about at the moment.
SPOCK: Yes. Somehow our thoughts are read, these things are quickly manufactured and provided for us.
KIRK: Dangerous if we happen to be thinking about
SPOCK: Yes. We must all control our thoughts.
KIRK: Difficult.
SPOCK: The force field we encountered is obviously underground, manufacturing these things. Passages lead to the surface. Just for example, when Rodriguez thought of a tiger
KIRK: Spock.
KIRK: We've got to get back to the landing party and warn them.

[Glade]
KIRK: Sulu, Rodriguez, Barrows. Front and center.
SULU: Sir.
KIRK: Don't ask any questions, Sulu. Face front, everyone. Don't talk. Don't breathe. Don't think. You're at attention. Concentrate on that and only that. Concentrate.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Who are you?
CARETAKER: I'm the caretaker of this place, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: You know my name?
CARETAKER: But of course. Lieutenant Rodriguez, Lieutenant Sulu, Yeoman Barrows and Mister Spock. We've just diskovered you don't understand all this. These experiences were intended to amuse you.
KIRK: Amuse? That's your word for what we've been through?
CARETAKER: But none of this is permanent. Here you have to only imagine your fondest wishes, either old ones you wish to relive or new ones, anything at all. Battle, fear, love, triumph. Anything that pleases you can be made to happen.
SPOCK: The term is amusement park.
CARETAKER: Of course.
SPOCK: An old Earth name for a place where people could go to see and do all sorts of fascinating things.
CARETAKER: This entire planet was constructed for our race of people to come and play.
SULU: Play? As advanced as you obviously are, and you still play?
KIRK: Yes, play, Mister Sulu. The more complex the mind, the greater the need for the simplicity of play.
CARETAKER: Exactly, Captain. How very perceptive of you.
KIRK: But that still doesn't explain the death of my ship's surgeon.
MCCOY: Possibly because no one has died, Jim. I was taken below the surface for some rather remarkable repairs. It's amazing. They've got a factory complex down there you wouldn't believe. They can build or do anything immediately.
TONIA: And how do you explain them?
MCCOY: Oh. Them. Well I, er, I was thinking about a little cabaret I know on Rigel Two, and, er, there were these two girls in the chorus line. And well, here they are. Well after all, I am on shore leave.
TONIA: And so am l.
MCCOY: Oh, yes. So you are. Well, girls, I suppose you can turn something up.
CARETAKER: We regret that some of you've been made uncomfortable.
KIRK: You say your people built all this. Who are you? What planet are you from?
CARETAKER: My impression is that your race is not yet ready to understand us, Captain.
SPOCK: I tend to agree.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): This is the bridge, Captain. Our power systems have just come back in. Do you require assistance?
KIRK: No, everything is in order, Lieutenant. Stand by.
CARETAKER: However.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
CARETAKER: If you would use the proper caution, this amusement planet of ours could be an ideal place for your people to enjoy themselves, if you wish.
MCCOY: It's what the doctor ordered, Jim.
KIRK: Lieutenant.
UHURA (voiceover): Sir?
KIRK: Commence transporting shore leave parties. Tell them to prepare for the best shore leave they've ever had. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Captain, I'll go back aboard ship and take over. With all due respect to the young lady, I've already had as much shore leave as I care for.
KIRK: No, Mister Spock. I'll go. You. On the other hand, I'll stay for a day or two.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Did you enjoy your rest, gentlemen?
KIRK: Yes, we did, Mister Spock. I think we did.
MCCOY: Indeed we did, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Most illogical.
KIRK: Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu.

[Bridge]
DESALLE: All clear ahead, Captain. The sensors indicate zero register.
KIRK: Forward readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Gravimetric readings, no significant change, zero space density.
KIRK: Ahead warp factor three, Mister Sulu. Colony Beta Six wants their supplies. Let's get across this void in a hurry.
MCCOY: Void, star desert. The word conjures up pictures of dunes, oases, mirages.
KIRK: Sunlight, palm trees. We're nine hundred light years from that kind of desert, Bones.
SPOCK: The precise meaning of the word desert is a waterless, barren wasteland. I fail to understand your romantic nostalgia for such a place.
MCCOY: That doesn't surprise me, Mister Spock. I can't imagine a mirage ever disturbing those mathematically perfect brain waves of yours.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor McCoy. Moving on schedule into quadrant nine oh four. Beta Six is eight days distant.
KIRK: Something, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Unusual, Captain. I'm now getting a sizable space-displacement reading.
KIRK: Can you verify that, Navigator?
DESALLE: No, sir. Forward sweeps are negative. Wait. Verified, sir. We must be in some sort of light warp or we'd have picked it up earlier.
KIRK: Put it on visual.
DESALLE: Iron-silica body, planet sized, magnitude one E. We'll be passing close.
SPOCK: Inconceivable this body has gone unnoted on all our records.
KIRK: And yet, here it is. No time to investigate. Science stations, gather data for computer banks. Uhura, notify the diskovery on subspace radio.
UHURA: Strong interference on subspace, Captain. The planet must be a natural radio source.
KIRK: Let's get out of its range. Veer forty degrees to starboard, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Forty degrees.
KIRK: Sulu!
DESALLE: Mister Spock, they're gone!
SPOCK: Emergency! Full reverse power! Ship's log Stardate 2124.5. First Officer Spock reporting for Captain James Kirk. We are orbiting the lone unrecorded planet in the star desert. For four hours, we have made every possible instrument sweep, but Captain Kirk and Helmsman Sulu remain unaccounted for. I have placed the ship on red alert.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We've searched again from stem to stern. If they're not down on that planet, they're nowhere.
DESALLE: No sign of human life on the surface, sir. Unless the instruments aren't functioning.
SPOCK: Function is normal. Continuous sensor sweeps. Lieutenant Uhura, have you checked all wave bands?
UHURA: All of them, Mister Spock. No response.
DESALLE: With due respect, sir. Request permission to transport to the surface immediately and carry out a search.
MCCOY: I second DeSalle's request. What are we waiting for?
SPOCK: The decision will be mine, Doctor. I have the responsibility for your safety. Mister Jaeger, describe your geophysical findings for the surface below.
JAEGER: No detectable soil or vegetation. Extremely hot, toxic atmosphere swept by tornadic storm. Continuous volcanic eruptions. Deadly to any lifeforms such as we know it without oxygen and life-support systems.
SPOCK: Estimate survival time of two unprotected individuals down there.
JAEGER: Not very long.
UHURA: Mister Spock. Look.
SPOCK: Greetings and felicitations. Hmm. Send this, Lieutenant. USS Enterprise to signaler on planet surface. Identify self.
SPOCK: Hip hip hoorah? And I believe it's pronounced tally ho.
DESALLE: Some kind of a joke, sir?
SPOCK: I'll entertain any theories, Mister DeSalle. Any at all.
MCCOY: One thing is certain. Obviously there's life on that planet.
SPOCK: You're quite correct, Doctor. Prepare transporter room.
SCOTT: Request assignment to the search party, sir.
SPOCK: No, Mister Scott. Neither you nor I can be spared here. Mister DeSalle, equip the landing party with full communications, armament, and life-support gear. Mister Jaeger, your geophysical knowledge may be crucial down there. Doctor McCoy will accompany. If those peculiar signals are coming from Captain Kirk or Lieutenant Sulu, their rationality is in question. Dismissed.

[Transporter room]
UHURA (voiceover): No more messages from below, sir, but I've locked onto their original source.
SPOCK: Very good. Transmit coordinates to Mister Scott. Once on the planet's surface, you'll establish contact with us immediately. Use the laser beacon if necessary. Ready, Scott?
SCOTT: Ready, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Activate.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Where are your storms, Jaeger?
JAEGER: Atmosphere exactly the same as ours.
DESALLE: DeSalle to Enterprise. DeSalle to Enterprise. It doesn't function. We're cut off.
MCCOY: No response.
DESALLE: Keep trying with yours. Something's blocking the beacon. I've got to find open ground.
DESALLE: Mister Jaeger! McCoy!

[Drawing Room]
MCCOY: In the name of heaven, where are we?
DESALLE: Look.
MCCOY: There's no reading. They're like waxworks figures.
TRELANE: I must say, they make a perfectly exquisite display pair, but I suppose you want them back now.
SULU: Where are we?
TRELANE: Welcome to an island of peace on my stormy little planet of Gothos.
KIRK: What happened? Fill me in.
MCCOY: You disappeared from the bridge after Sulu. We've been looking for you for four hours.
TRELANE: You must excuse my whimsical way of fetching you here, but when I saw you passing by I simply could not resist.
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk of the United Starship Enterprise.
TRELANE: Ah, so you're the Captain of these brave lads. My greetings and felicitations, Captain. So good of you and your officers to drop in. Absolutely smashing.
KIRK: Who are you? Where do you come from? General Trelane, retired. At your service, sirs. My home is your home.
DESALLE: We've lost contact with the ship, Captain. We're trapped here.
TRELANE: I can't tell you how delighted I am to have visitors from the very planet that I've made my hobby. Yes, but according to my observations, I didn't think you capable of such voyages.
JAEGER: Notice the period, Captain. Nine hundred light years from Earth. It's what might be seen through a viewing scope if it were powerful enough.
TRELANE: Ah, yes. I've been looking in on the doings on your lively little Earth.
KIRK: Then you've been looking in on the doings nine hundred years past.
TRELANE: Oh, really? Have I made an error in time? How fallible of me. Oh, I did so want to make you feel at home. I'm quite proud of the detail.
KIRK: General Trelane.
TRELANE: Retired, sir. Just Squire Trelane now. And you may call me Squire. Yes, I rather fancy that.
KIRK: For what purpose have you imprisoned us here?
TRELANE: Imprisoned? Nonsense. You're my guests. You see, I just finished my studies of your curious and fascinating society. You came by at the most propitious moment. I want to know all about your campaigns, your battles, your missions of conquest.
KIRK: Our missions are peaceful, not for conquest. When we do battle, it is only because we have no choice.
TRELANE: Ah, but that's the official story, eh?
KIRK: I must ask you to let us go back to our ship.
TRELANE: I wouldn't hear of it. You shall join me in a repast. I want to learn all about your feelings on war and killing and conquest. That sort of thing. Do you know that you're one of the few predator species that preys even on itself?
KIRK: Not yet. Put it on stun, not to kill, DeSalle.
TRELANE: DeSalle, did you say? Un vrai Francais?
DESALLE: My ancestry is French, yes.
TRELANE: Ah, monsieur. Vive la gloire. Vive Napoleon. You know, I admire your Napoleon very much.
KIRK: This is Mister DeSalle, our navigator. Doctor McCoy, our medical officer. Mister Sulu, our helmsman, and Carl Jaeger, meteorologist.
TRELANE: Welcome, good physicianer and honorable sir.
SULU: Is he kidding?
TRELANE: Und Offizier Jaeger, und der deutsche Soldat, nein? Eins, zwei, drei, vier. Gehen vir mit dem Schiessgewehr.
JAEGER: I'm a scientist, not a military man.
TRELANE: Oh come now. We're all military men under the skin. And how we do love our uniforms.
TRELANE: What an interesting weapon you've got there. Do let me see it.
TRELANE: Yes. Now let me see. How does this work? Ah, yes. This won't kill, and this will.
TRELANE: Oh, how marvelous! Devastating! Why, this could kill millions.
KIRK: Who will you start with, my crew? Are we your next targets?
TRELANE: Oh, how absolutely typical of your species. You don't understand something, so you become fearful. Now, do let me anticipate your next question. You want to know how I've managed all of this.
KIRK: That's correct.
TRELANE: We, meaning I and others, have, to state the matter briefly, perfected a system by which matter can be transferred to energy and back to matter again.
KIRK: Like the transporter system aboard the Enterprise.
TRELANE: Oh, a crude example of an infinitely more sophisticated process. You see, we not only transport matter from place to place, but we can alter its shape at will.
KIRK: This drawing room, did you create it by rearranging matter on this planet?
TRELANE: Quite.
KIRK: I see. How did you manage
TRELANE: Dear Captain, your inquiries are becoming tiresome. I want you to be happy. Free yourself of care. Let's enjoy ourselves in the spirit of martial good fellowship.
KIRK: Come on, let's go. We're getting out of here.
TRELANE: Tut, tut, tut. You're being quite rude. You can't go. Apparently, you need another demonstration of my authority. Yes, quite. Now, that's a sample of the atmosphere of this planet outside my kindly influence. Now, you will behave yourself hereafter, won't you? Or I shall be very, very angry. Captain's Log Stardate 2125.7. Science Officer Spock reporting for Captain Kirk. We have completed fourteenth orbit of this planet without establishing contact with our missing officers or the parties sent to find them. Subspace communications remain blocked. However, by diverting impulse power to our sensors, we have made them operable, and we have detected one small area on the surface which seems relatively stable.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, it's there, Mister Spock. Peaceful as Earth, but how do you explain it?
SPOCK: I don't, Mister Scott. It simply exists. Artificial perhaps, or a freak of nature. The fact remains that life can exist in that area.
SCOTT: Aye, it could, but it couldn't move around much.
SPOCK: Apply a fine tuning on our sensors. Locate any life forms in that stable area.
SCOTT: If we find any, it doesn't follow that it would be our people.
SPOCK: Affirmative. But if the Captain is down there and alive, that's where he'll have to be. We'll attempt to transport up any living beings our sensors detect.
SCOTT: Shooting in the dark, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Or stand by and do nothing, Mister Scott.

[Drawing Room]
SULU: Captain, where could he possibly come from? Who is this maniac?
MCCOY: Better say, what is he? I monitored him, and what I found was unbelievable.
KIRK: Not alive?
MCCOY: Not in the way we define life. No trace. Zero.
SULU: You mean, it shows he's dead?
MCCOY: It doesn't even show that he exists at all, alive or dead.
JAEGER: Notice the wood fire, Captain? Burning steadily, ember bed glowing, and it doesn't give off any heat at all.
KIRK: Fire without heat, mistaking all this for present day Earth without taking into account the time differential. Whatever we're dealing with, he certainly isn't all knowledgeable. He makes mistakes.
TRELANE: Diskussing deep laid plans, I'll wager. I cannot wait to see them evolve.
KIRK: Trelane, we haven't planned
TRELANE: Tut tut. Do not think that I deplore your martial virtue of deception and stratagem. Quite the contrary. I have nothing but admiration for your whole species.
KIRK: If your admiration is genuine, you must have respect for our sense of duty too. Our ship has need of us. We have tasks to perform.
TRELANE: Oh, I can't let you go now. I was getting a bit bored until you came. You must stay. I insist.
KIRK: For how long?
TRELANE: Until this is over, of course.
KIRK: Until what is over?
TRELANE: Dear Captain, so many questions. Make the most of an uncertain future. Enjoy yourself today. Tomorrow may never come at all.
KIRK: Trelane, even if we wanted to stay, our companions are missing us.
TRELANE: Yes, I must experience your sense of concern, your grief at the separation.
KIRK: There are four hundred men and women aboard that ship.
TRELANE: Women? Do you mean that you actually have members of the fairer sex among your crew? Oh, how charming. And they must be all very beautiful. And I shall be so very gallant to them. Here, let me fetch them down at once.
KIRK: No.
TRELANE: No?
KIRK: This game has gone on long enough. Those are crucial operating personnel. You can't
TRELANE: I can do anything I want. I should think you would have realized that by now.
MCCOY: Captain, receiving a transporter signal.
TRELANE: Transporter signal? What does he mean? You must tell me!
KIRK: It means, Trelane, the party's over, thanks to Mister Spock.
TRELANE: Wait! I won't have this! I haven't dismissed you yet. Stop! I won't have this!

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Everyone to stations. Report, Mister Spock. How were our scanners able to penetrate that radiation field?
SPOCK: They didn't, Captain. Not clearly. We merely beamed up all life forms in a given area.
MCCOY: Which means Trelane is not a life form as we know it, or he'd be beaming through now.
KIRK: Prepare to warp out of here at once. Maximum speed.

[Bridge]
ROSS: Oh, Captain, I was so worried.
KIRK: Scotty, we're going to need every ounce of your engines. We're going to put a hundred million miles between us and that madman.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye aye, sir.
MCCOY: I'm quaking, but I don't know if it's from laughter or terror.
UHURA: Doctor, what was it? What was down there?
MCCOY: Well, it was a. Oh, forget it.
ROSS: Look.
TRELANE: Where are all your weapons, Captain? Don't you display your weapons?
KIRK: Trelane.
TRELANE: Don't fret, Captain. I'm only a bit upset with you, but this Mister Spock you mentioned, the one responsible for that unseemly, impudent act of taking you from me, which is he?
SPOCK: I am Spock.
TRELANE: Surely not an officer. He isn't quite human, is he?
SPOCK: My father is from the planet Vulcan.
TRELANE: And are its natives predatory?
SPOCK: Not generally. But there have been exceptions.
TRELANE: Really? You will see to his punishment?
KIRK: On the contrary. I commend his action.
TRELANE: But I don't like him.
KIRK: Get off my ship.
TRELANE: Oh, rot! You're all going back with me.
KIRK: We're not going anywhere.
TRELANE: Nonsense. I have an absolutely enchanting sojourn on Gothos planned for all of you, and you shan't spoil it for me. Anyway, the decor of my drawing room is much more appropriate

[Drawing Room]
TRELANE: And tasteful. Don't you agree?
SULU: No.
TRELANE: But so much more fitting, honorable sir.
DESALLE: You
KIRK: DeSalle.
TRELANE: Oh, what primitive fury. Why, he's the very soul of sublime savagery.
KIRK: Trelane, let him go.
SULU: We haven't even got our phasers.
TRELANE: Yes, of course. I forget that I shouldn't frighten you too much. But I warn you, you can't provoke me again. Come, everyone. Let's forget your bad manners. Let's be full of merry talk and sallies of wit. We have victuals to delight the palate and brave company to delight the mind. Come, Doctor, do partake. Ah, you've been quite derelict in your social duties, Captain. You haven't introduced me to the charming contingent of your crew.
KIRK: This is General Trelane.
TRELANE: Retired. But if you prefer, you may address me as the lonely Squire of Gothos, dear ladies.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura of communications.
TRELANE: Ah a Nubian prize. Taken on one of your raids of conquest, no doubt, Captain.
KIRK: No doubt.
TRELANE: She has the melting eyes of the queen of Sheba. The same lovely coloring. And this. Is this the face that launched a thousand ships and burnt the topless towers of Ilium? Fair Helen, make me immortal with a kiss.
KIRK: Yeoman Teresa Ross. I believe you have met our science officer Mister Spock.
TRELANE: You do realize, don't you, that it's in deference to the Captain that I brought you here?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
TRELANE: I don't know if I like your tone. It's most challenging. That's what you're doing, challenging me?
SPOCK: I object to you. I object to intellect without diskipline. I object to power without constructive purpose.
TRELANE: Oh, Mister Spock, you do have one saving grace after all. You're ill-mannered. The human half of you, no doubt. Ah, come, my little wood nymph. Won't you dance with your swain? Give us some sprightly music, my dear girl.
UHURA: I don't know how to play this.
TRELANE: Of course you do.
SULU: Captain, how far do we go along with this charade?
KIRK: Until we can think our way out. Meanwhile, we accept his hospitality.
MCCOY: You should taste his food. Straw would taste better than his meat, and water a hundred times better than his brandy. Nothing has any taste at all.
SPOCK: It may be unappetizing, Doctor, but it is very logical.
MCCOY: There's that magic word again. Does your logic find this fascinating, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Fascinating is a word I use for the unexpected. In this case, I should think interesting would suffice.
KIRK: You don't find this unexpected, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: That his food has no taste, his wine no flavor? No. It simply means that Trelane knows all of the Earth forms, but none of the substance.
KIRK: And if he's fallible, he can't be all powerful. Which means he has something helping him.
SPOCK: Evidently.
KIRK: A machine? A device? Something which does these things for him.
TRELANE: Ah, my dear, don't we make a graceful pair? Except for one small detail. That dress hardly matches this charming scene.
TRELANE: Ah, yes, that's more what we want. The dashing warrior and his elegant lady.
KIRK: That mirror. It's part of his audience, his ego. He never wanders from it.
SPOCK: Is it ego, or something else?
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK: The mirror.
KIRK: What about it?
SPOCK: You noted yourself he never gets very far from it. I suppose it could be vanity.
KIRK: No, no, Mister Spock, that's not the reason. What kind of a machine could do these things?
SPOCK: A machine with the ability to turn energy into matter guided by thought waves. It would have a very complex memory bank, and would be extremely sophisticated. KIRK; Like a computer, only much more. Could the machine that maintains the environment in this immediate area be kept in this house?
SPOCK: I think not. A device capable of keeping out this planet's natural atmosphere would be immense.
KIRK: Good. I agree. That leaves me free .
SPOCK: Free, Captain?
KIRK: If I'm not mistaken, Mister Spock, I think I can turn his lights off at the source. Don't be too upset by what you see, gentlemen. After all, his actions are those of an immature, unbalanced mind.
TRELANE: I overheard that remark, Captain. I'm afraid I'll have to dispense with you.
KIRK: You only heard part of it. I just started.
TRELANE: Oh?
KIRK: Yes. I want you to leave my crewmen alone. I want you to leave my crewwomen alone too. You're not to dance with him. I don't like it.
TRELANE: Does it actually make you angry, Captain?
KIRK: I don't want you accepting his gifts, either.
ROSS: Captain, please don't do this.
TRELANE: Well, I do believe the dear Captain is jealous of me.
KIRK: I don't care what you believe, just keep your hands off her!
TRELANE: Oh, how curiously human. How wonderfully barbaric.
KIRK: I've had enough of your insulting attentions to her.
TRELANE: Of course you have. After all, that's the root of the matter, isn't it? You fight for the attention, the admiration, the possession of women.
KIRK: If it's fighting that you want, you may have it.
TRELANE: Are you challenging me to a duel?
KIRK: If you have the courage.
TRELANE: Oh, this is better than I'd planned. I shall not shirk an affair of honor.
TRELANE: A matched set. Just like the pair that slew your heroic Alexander Hamilton. And Captain, I never miss. Captain's Log, stardate 2126.1. Delayed report. The whole bridge crew are the unwilling guests of the creature who calls himself Trelane. We are weaponless, powerless, and our only hope of escape with the Enterprise lies in playing his games. I've decided to make my move with the field of honor game, and everything depends on my one chance with the ancient dueling pistol.

[Drawing room]
TRELANE: Oh, how fascinating. I'm party to an actual human duel.
KIRK: Are you ready?
TRELANE: Quite ready, sir. We shall test each other's courage and then, and then we shall see.
KIRK: Enough talk. Let's get on with it.
TRELANE: As you will, sir. Honor will be served, eh? Oh, wait! As the one challenged, I claim the first shot.
KIRK: We shoot together.
TRELANE: It's my game and my rules, but if you need to be persuaded.
KIRK: All right.
SPOCK: Captain.
TRELANE: And now, Captain, how do you have the expression? My fate is in your hands.
TRELANE: You've ruined everything!
SPOCK: The machine.
DESALLE: Captain, subspace interference is clearing.
KIRK: Try to contact the ship.
TRELANE: Oh, the remarkable treachery of the species.
KIRK: Go on, Trelane. Look at it. It's over. Your power is blanked out. You're finished.
TRELANE: You've earned my wrath. Go back. Go back to your ship, all of you, and prepare. You're all dead men. You especially, Captain.
KIRK: Trelane! Everyone, we're getting out of here. Now. This is the Captain. Commence beaming up. Maximum speed.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Set course for Colony Beta Six.
SULU: Laid in, sir.
KIRK: Full power acceleration from orbit, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Full power, sir.
KIRK: Emergency warp at the earliest possible moment, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Standing by to warp, sir.
UHURA: Shall I make a full report to Spacefleet Command, sir?
KIRK: Not yet. They may trace our beam. Wait until we're well out of range.
SPOCK: Can we know his range is, Captain?
KIRK: We can take an educated guess. At the point we entered their solar system.
UHURA: Still no sign of pursuit. Instruments clear, sir.
KIRK: Good.
ROSS: May I take a moment to change?
KIRK: Yes, I think you might. Turn in your glass slippers. The ball is over.
ROSS: Gladly, Captain.
KIRK: Hard to believe it ever happened.
SULU: Captain, we're about to warp.
DESALLE: Large body ahead.
SPOCK: Collision course.
KIRK: Hard to port, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: That was the planet Gothos, Captain.
KIRK: Gothos? Mister Sulu, have we been going in circles?
SULU: No, sir. All instruments show on course.
SPOCK: Gothos again, Captain.
KIRK: Hard over, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Cat and mouse game.
KIRK: With us as the mouse.
DESALLE: There it is again. Dead ahead.
KIRK: Ninety degrees to starboard, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Turning, Captain. Nut not veering off from it.
KIRK: Ninety degrees sub-port, Mister Sulu. Adjust.
SULU: Turn completed, and still accelerating toward the planet.
SPOCK: Or it toward us.
KIRK: Decelerate into orbit. Prepare transporter room.
MCCOY: Captain, you're not beaming down.
KIRK: Yes, I am, Doctor McCoy. I am going to see our playful Mister Trelane and whatever it takes to make him give up our ship. Stand by communications. Mister Spock. If you don't receive a message from me within the hour, leave the vicinity at once. No turning back.

[Courtroom]
TRELANE: The prisoner may approach the bench.
KIRK: Trelane.
TRELANE: Any attempt at demonstrations will weigh against you with the court, and this time my instrumentality is unbreakable.
KIRK: I've had enough of your games.
TRELANE: Oh, the absurdity of these inferior beings. And now, Captain James Kirk, you stand accused of the high crime of treason against a superior authority, conspiracy, and the attempt to foment insurrection. How do you plead?
KIRK: I haven't come to plead in your court, Trelane.
TRELANE: I warn you. Anything you might say has already been taken down in evidence against you.
KIRK: I've come for one purpose. To get back my ship.
TRELANE: Irrelevant.
KIRK: We've made you angry with our will to survive, haven't we?
TRELANE: Uncalled for.
KIRK: Then vent your anger on me alone. I was the one who led the others. I was the one who shot out your mirror machine.
TRELANE: And did you really think that was the only medium of instrumentality at my command?
KIRK: I took that chance. I'm willing to pay the price for chancing wrong.
TRELANE: Oh, then you do admit to the charge?
KIRK: Yes, anything! Just allow the Enterprise to continue its journey. You pompous
TRELANE: Immaterial!
KIRK: Those people have done you no harm.
TRELANE: Inadmissible!
KIRK: We're living beings, not playthings for your amusement.
TRELANE: Silence! This trial is over. You are guilty. On all counts, you are guilty. And according to your own laws, this court has no choice in fixing punishment. You will hang by the neck, Captain, until you are dead, dead, dead! Captain's Log, Stardate 2126.3. First Officer Spock reporting. Still no word from Captain Kirk on the surface below us. Waiting time is almost up. I will soon be forced to attempt departure as per instructions.

[Courtroom]
TRELANE: Until a moment ago, I didn't think it possible, but it was. I did it. I was angry. I actually experienced genuine rage. This experiment has been successful.
KIRK: I'm glad you weren't disappointed.
TRELANE: Why, Captain, you're still angry. Would that I could have sustained that moment. Ah, no matter. Do you have a last request?
KIRK: Trelane, if you think I'm going to cheerfully and obediently stick my head in that noose
TRELANE: You still haven't learned. You have no choice. Oh, this is becoming quite tiresome. It's all so very easy.
KIRK: That's your problem, Trelane. Everything is easy. It's given you a bad habit. You're not aware of it, but you have it. You don't think, Trelane. That's your problem. You miss opportunities, like your anger before and mine right now. Oh, you enjoy it, but you couldn't have accomplished it without me, and you know why? Because you're a bumbling, inept fool.
TRELANE: Take care, now.
KIRK: Here you have an opportunity to experience something really unique, and you're wasting it. You want to commit murder? Go ahead, but where's the sport in a simple hanging?
TRELANE: The sport?
KIRK: Yes. The terror of murder. The suspense. The fun.
TRELANE: Oh, I'm intrigued. Go ahead, Captain. What do you suggest?
KIRK: A personal conflict between us. Not like the duel before, but the real thing. The stakes, a human life. Mine.
TRELANE: Yes! Yes!
KIRK: That's the idea.
TRELANE: Oh, then you approve?
KIRK: Yes, but you can do better than that. There's still not enough sport in just killing me with a sword.
TRELANE: I know. That will be dull. We'll have to have something more fanciful. Let me see. A hunt. A royal hunt. Predator against predator. Now, you may go hide in the forest anywhere you like and I shall seek. How does that strike you, Captain?
KIRK: It strikes me very well. But you'll have to make it worth my while, Trelane. Why not up the stakes?
TRELANE: The stakes?
KIRK: Yes. While we're playing our game, free my ship. Let it continue on its way. In return, I'll give you a contest you'll remember.
TRELANE: Always back to your ship. Oh well. If it will add spice to the pursuit, I accept your terms, Captain.

[Planet surface]
TRELANE (voiceover): Remember, you must try not to let me find you too quickly.
KIRK: Let me notify the Enterprise that it can go.
TRELANE (voiceover): At your convenience. KIRK; Enterprise. Enterprise, this is Kirk. Can you hear me? Get the ship away as fast as you can. I'll try and give you the time you need. Can you hear me?
TRELANE: Ah-ha! KIRK; Enterprise.
TRELANE: Ah ha! Captain Kirk. You must try harder, Captain. This is too easy.
KIRK: Enterprise. Enterprise, can you hear me?
TRELANE: Touche, Captain. Touche. I must confess you scored first. But after all, I never played this game before.
TRELANE: And now let's have at it again!

[Outside the building]
KIRK: Enterprise. Enterprise.
TRELANE: Ah-ha! Tallyho! You made a noble fight of it, Captain.
KIRK: Remember, Trelane. You promised to let my ship go.
TRELANE: Yes, but this is such sport. I must fetch all the others back to play. So this is victory. It has a sweet taste. Down, Captain. On your knees!
KIRK: You haven't won, Trelane.
TRELANE: I have. I could run you through!
KIRK: But you haven't won anything.
TRELANE: On your knees, Captain!
KIRK: No! Does it still taste as sweet?
TRELANE: I order you. You've been beaten.
KIRK: But I'm not defeated.
TRELANE: I order you! I order you! You broke it! You broke my sword!
KIRK: You've got a lot to learn about winning, Trelane.
TRELANE: You dare to defy me!
KIRK: In fact, you've got a lot to learn about everything, haven't you?
TRELANE: I'll fix you for that! You cheated! You haven't played the game right. I'll show you!
MOTHER: Trelane.
TRELANE: No! No. You said I could have this planet.
FATHER: This has gone far enough.
TRELANE: You always stop me when I'm having fun.
FATHER: You're disobedient and cruel. We've told you before.
MOTHER: Time to come in now, Trelane.
TRELANE: But I don't want to come in, and I won't. I'm a general, and I won't listen to you.
FATHER: Enough, Trelane. Come along.
TRELANE: But why? I didn't do anything wrong. I was just playing.
FATHER: We said, come along.
TRELANE: But I haven't finished studying my predators yet.
FATHER: This is not studying them.
MOTHER: If you cannot take proper care of your pets, you cannot have them at all.
TRELANE: Oh, but I was winning. I was winning.
FATHER: They're beings, Trelane. They have spirit. They're superior.
TRELANE: No, no. You saw.
MOTHER: You'll grow up, Trelane. You'll understand. Now come along.
TRELANE: Oh, but you said I could. You promised. I never have any fun.
FATHER: Stop that nonsense at once, or you'll not be permitted to make any more planets.
TRELANE: Oh, but you saw. I was winning. I would have won. Honest.
FATHER: No, Trelane.
MOTHER: No, Trelane.
TRELANE: I would have. I would have. I would have. I would. I would. I would. I would.
FATHER: Captain, we regret that the life paths of yourself and your companions have been disturbed.
KIRK: Who are you? Who is Trelane?
MOTHER: You must forgive our child. The fault is ours for indulging him too much. He will be punished.
FATHER: We would not have let him intercept you had we realized your vulnerability.
MOTHER: Forgive us, Captain. We will maintain your life-support conditions while you return to your ship. Please accept our apologies.
KIRK: Captain to Enterprise. Captain to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, we're receiving you.
KIRK: Beam me up, Mister Spock. We're free to go.

[Bridge]
SULU: Warping down, Captain. Our warp factor four.
DESALLE: Approach channels clear, Captain.
UHURA: Colony Beta Six clears us for normal approach, sir.
KIRK: Normal orbit approach procedures, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Still thinking about Trelane, is that it?
SPOCK: For the record, how do we describe him? Pure mentality? Force of intellect? Embodied energy? Superbeing? He must be classified, sir.
KIRK: God of war, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I hardly find that fitting.
KIRK: Then a small boy, and a very naughty one at that.
SPOCK: It will make a strange entry in the library banks.
KIRK: Then he was a very strange small boy. One the other hand, he was probably doing things comparable to the same mischievous pranks you played when you were a boy.
SPOCK: Mischievous pranks, Captain?
KIRK: Yes. Dipping little girls' curls in inkwells. Stealing apples from the neighbors' trees. Tying cans on
KIRK: Forgive me, Mister Spock. I should have known better.
SPOCK: I shall be delighted, Captain.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: You'll enjoy Commodore Travers. He sets a good table.
MCCOY: I wonder if he brought his personal chef along with him to Cestus Three.
KIRK: Probably. Rank hath its privileges.
MCCOY: How well we both know that.
KIRK: Scotty. Kirk here.
TRAVERS (voiceover): Travers, Jim. We're waiting.
KIRK: Good, Commodore. We're on our way.
TRAVERS (voiceover): Be sure to bring along your tactical people. I've got an interesting problem for them.
KIRK: We'll beam down immediately, Commodore. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Captain. I wonder why he's insistent that our tactical aides come down.
KIRK: This colony is isolated, exposed, out on the edge of now here. He probably wants additional advice.
SPOCK: Perhaps, Captain, but nevertheless
MCCOY: Spock, isn't it enough the commodore is famous for his hospitality? I, for one, could use a good non-reconstituted meal.
SPOCK: Doctor, you are a sensualist.
MCCOY: You bet your pointed ears I am. Ready whenever you are, Captain.
KIRK: Energize.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Red alert.
SULU (voiceover): What is it, Captain?
KIRK: Cestus Three has been destroyed.
KIRK: Full alert. Tricorder readings, Mister Spock. Life detection.
SPOCK: Those messages we got, Captain, the one directing us here yesterday.
KIRK: Faked. All this happened several days ago. Lang, over there. Look for survivors. Kelowitz, that way. O'Herlihy, stick with me.
SPOCK: Captain, impulses that direction. Very weak, possibly a survivor.
KIRK: Come on, Bones.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 3045.6 The Enterprise has responded to a call from Earth observation outpost on Cestus Three. On landing, we have diskovered that the outpost has been destroyed.

[Ruins]
MCCOY: Captain, over there. Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain.
MCCOY: Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain. He's in a bad way, Captain.
KIRK: Keep him alive, Bones. I want to know what's been happening here.
SPOCK: Getting another life reading, Captain.
KIRK: Survivors?
SPOCK: Not survivors. Not warm-blooded. Living creatures, but not human.
KIRK: Where?
SPOCK: Azimuth ninety three degrees, range one five seven zero yards.
KIRK: O'Herlihy.
O'HERLIHY: Captain, I see something.
KIRK: Cover! Kirk to Enterprise, lock on transporters. Beam us up.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, we're coming under attack. Unidentified ship quartering in.

[Ruins]
SULU (voiceover): We can't beam you up. I've just rigged up defensive screens.
KIRK: Keep those screens up. Fire all phasers.

[Bridge]
SULU: Firing phasers, Captain. The alien has screens up, too.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Take all action necessary to protect the ship. We'll hold out here.

[Bridge]
SULU: Are you under attack, Captain?

[Ruins]
SULU (voiceover): We could drop screens.
KIRK: Keep those screens up. Worry about us when the ship is safe.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk out.

[Ruins]
KIRK: If they lower those screens to beam us up, they'll be open to phaser attack.
SPOCK: We're hopelessly outnumbered here, Captain. It's those disruptors versus our hand phasers.
KIRK: We're stuck with it, Mister Spock. We'll have to make do with what we've got.
KIRK: Kelowitz, Lang, flank out. Lay down fire on co-ordinates Mister Spock gave you. Even if you don't see them. Keep your heads down.
KIRK: We're helpless down here. And the Enterprise
SPOCK: Sulu is an experienced combat officer.
KIRK: It's my ship, Mister Spock. I should be there. We can't even get at them.
SPOCK: Nor can they at us at the moment. Not unless they moved their original position. That intervening high ground.
KIRK: Can you remember the layout of this place? The arsenal?
SPOCK: About one hundred yards in that direction. But after an attack as thorough as this one
KIRK: I'll risk it.
KIRK: Kirk here. Report.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, are you all right?

[Ruins]
KIRK: Never mind about me. What about the ship?

[Bridge]
SULU: We returned fire with all phaser banks. Negative against its deflector screen.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Arm your photon torpedoes.

[Bridge]
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Arm photon torpedoes. Stand by.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Any identification on the attacking vessel?
SULU (voiceover): No, sir. Doesn't correspond with any configuration we're familiar with.

[Bridge]
SULU: We can't get visual contact. She's too far away.
DEPAUL: Mister Sulu, photon torpedoes locked on.
SULU: Photon torpedoes locked on, Captain.

[Ruins]

[Bridge]
SULU: All banks fired, sir.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Sulu. Sulu, our communications are being interfered with. Now get this straight.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): You do anything you think necessary to protect the ship. Leave orbit, maximum warp, anything. Clear?
SULU: Clear, Captain, but you

[Ruins]
KIRK: Never mind about me. Protect my ship!

[Bridge]
SULU: Yes, sir. Photon torpedoes negative, Captain. I'm warping out of orbit.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Good. Contact me when you can. Kirk out.
SPOCK: How is he, Doctor?
MCCOY: He'll be dead in half an hour if we don't get him some decent care.
SPOCK: They're moving. I've got to get to the Captain.
SPOCK: Locked on to the enemy, Captain. They're moving toward the high ground. They've locked on to my tricorder.
SPOCK: Very ingenious. They fed back my own impulses and built up an overload.
KIRK: We'll see how ingenious they are. Here, give me a hand with this grenade launcher. Lang!
SPOCK: Any word from the Enterprise?
KIRK: Sulu's taken her out of orbit.
KELOWITZ: They got Lang, sir.
KIRK: Did you see them?
KELOWITZ: No, sir.
KIRK: An evaluation, Mister Kelowitz. Where do you think they are?
KELOWITZ: If I were them, I'd go to the high ground on the right. I make it twelve hundred yards, azimuth eighty seven. It's pretty close for one of these little jewels, Captain.
KIRK: It'll be a lot closer to them. Stand clear.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SULU (voiceover): Captain, the alien's withdrawing. She's at extreme range, but our sensors indicate she just activated her transporters.
KIRK: Lock on to the alien, Mister Sulu. I don't want to lose her.

[Bridge]
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Our screens are down. We can beam you up now, sir.

[Ruins]
KIRK: I want a search party of thirty medical personnel beamed down immediately to search for survivors. Notify the transporter room. Lock onto us. We're beaming up.

[Bridge]
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplement. We have beamed back to the Enterprise and immediately set out in pursuit of the alien vessel. It appears to be headed toward a largely unexplored section of the galaxy.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Can you tell me what happened?
MAN: Scanners reported a ship approaching. We get them now and then. They're all welcome to use our facilities. You know that.
KIRK: Yes, I know.
MAN: They came in space normal speed, using our regular approach route, but they knocked out our phaser batteries with their first salvo. From then on we were helpless. We weren't expecting anything! Why should we? We didn't have anything anyone would want.
KIRK: Easy. Easy.
MAN: They poured it on, like, like phasers, only worse, whatever they were using. I tried to signal them. We called up. Tried to surrender. We had women and children. I told them that! I begged them! They wouldn't listen. They didn't let up for a moment.
KIRK: Lieutenant, the Enterprise received two messages, ostensibly from Cestus Three. One for the Enterprise to go there, and the other for myself and my tactical crew to beam down to the surface.
MAN: They hit us a full day before you got there, Captain. No messages came from us, Captain. Why did they do it? Why? Why did they do it? There has to be a reason. There has to be a reason!

[Captain's quarters]
KIRK: It was a trap. Getting the Enterprise to come to Cestus Three, getting us and our whole crew to come ashore.
SPOCK: Very clever. As to the reason?
KIRK: The reason is crystal clear. The Enterprise is the only protection in this section of the Federation. Destroy the Enterprise, and everything is wide open.
SPOCK: You allude to invasion, Captain, yet positive proof
KIRK: I have all the proof I need on Cestus Three.
SPOCK: Not necessarily, sir. Several possible explanations
KIRK: How can you explain a massacre like that? No, Mister Spock. The threat is clear and immediate. Invasion.
SPOCK: Very well, then. If that's the case, you must make certain that the alien vessel never reaches its home base.
KIRK: I intend to. If we can keep them in the dark as to our strength, they'll never dare move against us. Captain to helmsman.
SULU (voiceover): Sulu here, sir.
KIRK: Is the alien still making warp five?
SULU (voiceover): Affirmative, sir.
KIRK: Initiate warp six.
SULU (voiceover): Affirmative, sir.
KIRK: Overtake. Phaser banks, lock on to the enemy vessel. Stand by for firing orders. All hands, this is the Captain. We are going into battle. All hands, battle stations. Red alert. I repeat, red alert. This is no drill. This is no drill.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 3046.2. We are in hot pursuit of the alien vessel which destroyed the Earth outpost on Cestus Three.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister DePaul.
DEPAUL: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Position.
DEPAUL: Twenty two point three parsecs beyond latest chart limit, sir.
KIRK: All scanners lock into computer banks. I want a complete record of this. Mister Spock, what do we have on this general area?
SPOCK: Virtually nothing, Captain. No records of any explorations. There are rumors of certain strange signals on subspace channels. However, none has ever been recorded.
KIRK: Anything on intelligent life forms?
SPOCK: Nothing specific, Captain. Unscientific rumors only. More like space legends.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, status, alien vessel.
SULU: They must be aware we're after them, sir. They've gone to warp six also.
KIRK: Warp factor seven.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Something the matter, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: A sustained warp seven speed will be dangerous, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. I mean to catch them.
SCOTT: We'll either catch them or blow up, Captain. They may be faster than we are.
KIRK: They'll have to prove it. Yes, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: You mean to destroy the alien ship, Captain?
KIRK: Of course.
SPOCK: I thought perhaps the hot pursuit alone might be sufficient. Destruction might be unnecessary.
KIRK: Colony Cestus Three has been obliterated, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: The destruction of the alien vessel will not help that colony, Jim.
KIRK: If the aliens go unpunished, they'll be back, attacking other Federation installlations.
SPOCK: I merely suggested that a regard for sentient life
KIRK: There's no time for that. It's a matter of policy. Out here, we're the only policemen around. And a crime has been committed. Do I make myself clear?
SPOCK: Very clear, Captain.
KIRK: I'm delighted, Mister Spock. Report, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Alien ship maintaining interval, Captain. Now at warp seven.
KIRK: Warp factor eight.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Captain to phaser banks. All components at battle ready. All banks primed.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aft phaser to Bridge. Alert status. All weapons at operational ready.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Closing on target, sir.
KIRK: Good. Mister DePaul.
DEPAUL: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Our position.
DEPAUL: Two two seven nine pl, sir. Uncharted solar system at two four six six pm.
KIRK: Is it on the alien's course?
DEPAUL: No, sir. He's headed away from it.
UHURA: Captain, sensors report we're being scanned.
KIRK: By the alien ship?
UHURA: No, sir. It's from that solar system ahead.
KIRK: Any interference? Resistance?
UHURA: No, sir, Just scanning beams. It's on an unusual wave length.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: It would appear someone is curious about us.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, is the alien still heading away from that solar system?
SULU: Yes, sir. We're closing, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, anything further on those scanning beams?
UHURA: There's no hostility, sir. They're not tractors or weapons of any sort, Just increasing in intensity. Steady. Regular. It's growing stronger, sir.
SULU: Captain!
KIRK: Yes, what is it?
SULU: The alien. It's slowing down. Warp five, four, two. It's going sublight, sir. Sir? It's stopped dead in space.
KIRK: He may be turning to fight.
SULU: No, sir. They're just dead out there.
KIRK: Are you sure?
SULU: Yes, sir. Unmoving.
KIRK: Then we've got them. Go to Red Alert. Prepare to fire phaser banks. Sensors, lock on. Mister Sulu, continue closing. Mister Spock, lock phasers into computer. Computers will control attack.
SPOCK: Computer lock ready, Captain. All systems standing by.
SULU: Range is one eight one zero. One seven six zero. Range is one seven zero zero. One six four zero. Range is one five nine zero. One five five zero and closing, sir.
SULU: Warp six, warp five, four, warp three, warp one. Sublight, Captain. We're stuck, Captain. It's impossible, but. It's impossible.
KIRK: From warp eight? Have you lost your mind?
SPOCK: Same as the alien, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Scott, report.
SCOTT: We're dead, Captain. Locked up. Frozen tight. All propulsion systems read zero. KIRK; Life systems?
SCOTT: They're all normal, sir. Atmosphere, heat, light. No variance.
KIRK: Phaser banks. Report.
CREWMAN (voiceover): We're all inoperative here, Captain. No power at all. No faulty circuits I can find. Just no power.
KIRK: Damage Control, report.
SPOCK: All systems report normal, Captain. No ascertainable damage. KIRK; Then what is it?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir, but whatever it is, we canna move.
SPOCK: We're being held in place, Captain, apparently from that solar system. KIRK; This far out? That's impossible.
SPOCK: We are being held.
KIRK: Tractor beam?
SPOCK: No, sir. An unidentifiable power.
METRON (voiceover): We are the Metrons. You are one of two crafts which have come into our space on a mission of violence. This is not permissible. Yet we have analyzed you and have learned that your violent tendencies are inherent. So be it. We will control them. We will resolve your conflict in the way most suited to your limited mentalities. Captain James Kirk.
KIRK: This is Kirk.
METRON (voiceover): We have prepared a planet with a suitable atmosphere. You will be taken there, as will the Captain of the Gorn ship which you have been pursuing. There you will settle your dispute.
KIRK: I don't understand.
METRON (voiceover): You will be provided with a recording-translating device, in hopes that a chronicle of this contest will serve to dissuade others of your kind from entering our system, but you will not be permitted to communicate with your ship. You will each be totally alone.
KIRK: What makes you think you can interfere with
METRON (voiceover): It is you who are interfering. We are simply putting a stop to it. The place we have prepared for you contains sufficient elements for either of you to construct weapons lethal enough to destroy the other, which seems to be your intention. The winner of the contest will be permitted to go his way unharmed. The loser, along with his ship, shall be destroyed in the interests of peace. The contest will be one of ingenuity against ingenuity, brute strength against brute strength. The results will be final.
KIRK: Just a minute
METRON (voiceover): There will be no diskussion. It is done.
SULU: He's gone.

[Planet surface]
KIRK (voiceover): The Enterprise is dead in space, stopped cold during her pursuit of an alien raider by mysterious forces, and I have been somehow whisked off the bridge and placed on the surface of an asteroid, facing the Captain of the alien ship. Weaponless, I face the creature the Metrons called a Gorn. Large, reptilian. Like most humans, I seem to have an instinctive revulsion to reptiles. I must fight to remember that this is an intelligent, highly advanced individual, the Captain of a starship, like myself, undoubtedly a dangerously clever opponent.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Have you tried overload?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. It does no good.
SPOCK: How about bypassing the transformer banks? Feed the impulse engines directly.
SCOTT: I tried that, sir. Nothing.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, have sensors learned anything about the nature of the force which holds us here?
UHURA: No, sir. They report they definitely emanate from that solar system ahead.
SPOCK: No indication of its composition? Gravimetric? Magnetic? Electronic?
UHURA: Nothing, sir.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: This is Captain James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. Who ever finds this please get it to Starfleet Command. I'm engaged in personal combat with a creature apparently called a Gorn.
KIRK (voiceover): He's immensely strong. Already he has withstood attacks from me that would have killed a human being. Fortunately, though strong, he is not agile. The agility and, I hope, the cleverness, is mine.
KIRK: The Metrons, the creatures that sent us both here, said that the surface of the planet provides the raw material to construct weapons. There's very little here. Scrub brush, rocks, an abundance of mineral deposits, but no weapons in the conventional sense. Still, I need to find one. Bare-handed against the Gorn, I have no chance.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Leave channel one open, Lieutenant, just in case.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY: What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I'm going to wait, Doctor. There's little else I can do.
MCCOY: What about the Captain?
SPOCK: If I could help him, I would. I cannot.
MCCOY: Now, you're the one that's always talking about logic. What about some logic now? Where's the Captain, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: He's out there, Doctor. Out there somewhere in a thousand cubic parsecs of space, and there's absolutely nothing we can do to help him.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: A large deposit of diamonds on the surface. Perhaps the hardest substance known in the universe. Beautifully crystallized and pointed, but too small to be useful as a weapon. An incredible fortune in stones yet I would trade them all for a hand phaser, or a good solid club. Yet the Metrons said there would be weapons, if I could find them. Where? What kind? (From his vantage point on the ridge, Kirk watches the Gorn at work, then spots a lone rock neatly balanced on a pinnacle above his adversary. He pushes it over, the Gorn looks up, then we get the cloud of dust and a view of the reptile under the rock, lying still. Confident, Kirk comes down to check on his kill, just in time to see the Gorn move, grasp his stone dagger, and get up again. The rock continues on its way down the slope. The mammal runs away, straight into reptiles trap of vines and rocks. Now Kirk is pinned under a boulder, and at his enemy's mercy. But the Gorn has to move the boulder to be able to stab him, so once again Kirk is able to dodge away, albeit with a limp.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: This is the U.S.S. Enterprise calling the Metrons. Our channels are open. Come in, please. We urgently desire a conference. Please answer.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: This may be my last entry. I am almost exhausted. Unless I find the weapon the Metron mentioned I have very little time left. Native sulfur, diamonds. This place is a mineralogist's dream. Yet there is something about sulfur. Something very old. Something? If only I could remember.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: The ship, our engines, our weapons. It's just inconceivable that we are immobilized.
SPOCK: But it has happened, Doctor.
METRON (voiceover): We are the Metrons. Your Captain is losing his battle. We would suggest you make whatever memorial arrangements, if any, which are customary in your culture. We believe you have very little time left.
MCCOY: We appeal to you in the name of civilisation. Put a stop to this.
METRON (voiceover): Your violent intent and actions demonstrate that you are not civilized. However, we are not without compassion. It is possible you may have feelings toward your Captain. So that you will be able to prepare yourself, we will allow you to see and hear what is now transpiring.
MCCOY: If there were only some way we could contact him.
SPOCK: Yes, indeed, Doctor, if only there were. Notice the substance encrusting that rock. Yes. Unless I'm mistaken, it's potassium nitrate.
MCCOY: So?
SPOCK: Perhaps nothing, Doctor. Perhaps everything.
GORN (voiceover): Earthling! Captain!
KIRK (screen): Who is this, the Metron?
GORN (voiceover): This is your opponent, Earthling. I have heard every word you have said.
KIRK (screen): All right. What do you want?
GORN (screen): I'm weary of the chase. Wait for me. I shall be merciful and quick.
KIRK (screen): Like you were at Cestus Three?
GORN (voiceover): You were intruding! You established an outpost in our space.
KIRK (screen): You butchered helpless human beings
GORN (voiceover): We destroyed invaders, as I shall destroy you!
MCCOY: Can that be true? Was Cestus Three an intrusion on their space?
SPOCK: It may well be possible, Doctor. We know very little about that section of the galaxy.
MCCOY: Then we could be in the wrong.
SPOCK: Perhaps. That is something best decided by diplomats.
MCCOY: The Gorn simply might have been trying to protect themselves.
SPOCK: Yes.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Good. Good. He knows, Doctor. He has reasoned it out.
SPOCK: Yes. Yes.
MCCOY: What is it, Spock? SPOCK; An invention, Doctor. First potassium nitrate, and now if he can find some sulfur and a charcoal deposit or ordinary coal.
MCCOY: What's he doing? SPOCK; Diamonds. The hardest known substance. Impelled by sufficient force, they would make formidable projectiles.
MCCOY: What force?
SPOCK: Recall your basic chemistry, Doctor. Gunpowder.
GORN (voiceover): Captain, let us be reasonable.
GORN (screen): You have lost. Admit it to yourself. Stop running. SPOCK; Coal.
MCCOY: Can he do it?
SPOCK: If he has the time, Doctor. If he has the time.
KIRK: No. No, I won't kill you. Maybe you thought you were protecting yourself when you attacked the outpost.
KIRK: No, I won't kill him! Do you hear? You'll have to get your entertainment someplace else!
KIRK: You're a Metron?
METRON: Does my appearance surprise you, Captain?
KIRK: You seem more like a boy.
METRON: I am approximately fifteen hundred of your Earth years old. You surprise me, Captain.
KIRK: How?
METRON: By sparing your helpless enemy who surely would have destroyed you, you demonstrated the advanced trait of mercy, something we hardly expected. We feel there may be hope for your kind. Therefore, you will not be destroyed. It would not be civilized.
KIRK: What happened to the Gorn?
GORN: I sent him back to his ship. If you like, I shall destroy him for you.
KIRK: No. That won't be necessary. We can talk. Maybe reach an agreement.
METRON: Very good, Captain. There is hope for you. Perhaps in several thousand years, your people and mine shall meet to reach an agreement. You are still half savage, but there is hope. We will contact you when we are ready.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain! Are you all right?
KIRK: I don't know. I don't know. All right, everybody. Back to your posts. Let's get out of here.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.
SULU: It's impossible, but there's Sirius over there when it should be here. And Canopus. And Arcanis. We're. All of a sudden, we're clear across the galaxy, five hundred parsecs from where we are I mean, were. I mean
KIRK: Don't try and figure it out, Mister Sulu. Just plot a course for us back to Cestus Three.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: After you touched off your primitive cannon, Captain, we lost the picture the Metron was sending us. KIRK; You saw what happened down there?
SPOCK: Most of it. I would be interested in knowing what finally happened.
KIRK: We're a most promising species, Mister Spock, as predators go. Did you know that?
SPOCK: I've frequently had my doubts.
KIRK: I don't. Not anymore. And maybe in a thousand years or so, we'll be able to prove it. Never mind, Mister Spock. It doesn't make much sense to me either. Take us back to where we're supposed to be, Mister Sulu. Warp factor one.
SULU: Warp factor one.
SPOCK: A thousand years, Captain? Well, that gives us a little time.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Very typical, Captain. Iron-silicon base, oxygen-hydrogen atmosphere, largely arid, no diskernible life. No surprises.
KIRK: Photographic section, begin scanning. Tie in to visual section 988-TG, computer bank 22. Kirk out. About four more orbits ought to do it, Mister Lesley. That'll wrap it up. Lay in a course for Starbase 200.
LESLEY: Aye, aye, Captain.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock!
SPOCK: Incredible, Captain.
KIRK: What was that?
SPOCK: What my instruments read is totally unbelievable, Captain. Twice, for a split second each time, everything within range of our instruments seemed on the verge of winking out.
KIRK: I want facts, not poetry.
SPOCK: I have given you the facts, Captain. The entire magnetic field in this solar system simply blinked. The planet below, the mass of which we're measuring, attained zero gravity.
KIRK: That's impossible. What you're describing
SPOCK: Is non-existence.
UHURA: Standard General Alert signal from Starfleet Command, Captain.
KIRK: All stations to immediate alert status. Stand by.
SPOCK: Captain, scanners now report a life object on the planet surface below.
KIRK: You just did a complete life survey five minutes ago. How are you just picking it up now?
SPOCK: Inexplicable, Captain. This reading began at approximately the moment that the pulsation phenomenon began to subside.
KIRK: Well, what is it, this object? Its physical makeup?
SPOCK: A living being. Body temperature 98.5 Fahrenheit. Mass, electrical impulses, movement. It is apparently human, Captain.
KIRK: And its appearance coincided with this cosmic winking-out? SPOCK; Almost to the second.
KIRK: Explanation.
SPOCK: None.
KIRK: Speculation. Could this being present any danger to the ship?
SPOCK: Possible. Very possible.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, notify Security to have an armed detachment of men ready to beam down with us. Let's go. Any word comes through from Starfleet Command, pipe it down immediately. Communications, priority one.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3087.6. While investigating an uncharted planet, the Enterprise and at least this entire quadrant of space, has been subjected to violent, unexplained stress and force. Sensors have reported the presence of a human being on the planet below who might be connected with the phenomenon. With my first officer and a security team, I have set out in search of him.

[Planet surface]
LAZARUS: You came! Thank the heavens. There's still time. It's not too late. We can still stop him. But I, but I, need, need your help.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Nothing yet, sir.
MASTERS: Report on the dilithium crystals, Captain.
KIRK: Yes.
MASTERS: Whatever that phenomenon was, it drained almost all of our crystals completely. It could mean trouble.
KIRK: You have a talent for understatement, Lieutenant. Without full crystal power, our orbit will begin to decay in ten hours. Re-amplify immediately.
MASTERS: Aye aye, sir.
KIRK: Any further magnetic disturbance?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Scanners indicate situation normal.
KIRK: Nothing?
SPOCK: Nothing. Illogical. An effect of such proportions, unexplainable by any established physical laws that I'm aware of. I have been able to ascertain one fact. Though the effect, whatever it was, was unquestioningly widespread, it was strongest here on the planet beneath us.
KIRK: Keep checking.
UHURA: Red Two message in one minute, Captain. Starfleet Command. Code Factor one, sir.
KIRK: Repeat.
UHURA: Code Factor one.
KIRK: Invasion status. All hands, this is the Captain. Battle stations. I repeat, battle stations. This is no drill.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
MCCOY (voiceover): About our patient.
KIRK: Yes, Doctor, quickly.
MCCOY (voiceover): He'll make it. He'll be stiff and sore for a while, but he'll be all right.
KIRK: I'll talk to him later. Thank you. Kirk out.
UHURA: Message ready, Captain. Main screen, coming up.
KIRK: Kirk here. Enterprise standing by, Commodore.
BARSTOW (screen): You're aware of the effect an hour ago?
KIRK: Yes, sir.
BARSTOW (screen): You may not be aware of its scope. It occurred in every quadrant of the galaxy and far beyond. Complete disruption of normal magnetic and gravimetric fields, timewarp distortion, possible radiation variations. And all of them centring on the general area which you are now patrolling. The question is, are these natural phenomena or are they mechanically created, and if they are, by whom? For what purpose? Your guess, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you, sir. I have considered all the alternatives. My best guess is it could be a prelude to invasion.
BARSTOW (screen): Exactly our consensus. I'm giving you the job of finding out specifically. KIRK; Aye, aye, sir. Can you assign me other starships as a reserve?
BARSTOW (screen): Negative. I'm evacuating all Starfleet units and personnel within a hundred parsecs of your position. It's going to be tough on you and the Enterprise, but that's the job you've drawn. You're on your own.
KIRK: I see. You mean, we're the bait.
BARSTOW (screen): Good luck.
KIRK: Thank you, sir. Maintain alert status at all battle stations.
UHURA: Aye aye, sir.
KIRK: From the top, Mister Spock. First, the phenomenon came from the planet below. Secondly, the danger is apparently real and imminent.
SPOCK: Third, a closer examination of the planet's surface would be in order. My job, sir?
KIRK: Yes. Meanwhile, I'll talk to our unexpected guest. Maybe he can provide some answers.

[Kirk's quarters]
LAZARUS: That's how I came to be down there, Captain, pursuing the devil's own spawn, a thing I've chased across the universe. He's humanoid outside, but inside, he's a hideous, murdering monster. I'll get him, Captain. I swear it.
KIRK: You say this one man
LAZARUS: Not man! Thing.
KIRK: Thing destroyed your entire civilisation.
LAZARUS: To the last man, woman and child.
KIRK: How did you escape?
LAZARUS: I was inspecting magnetic communications satellites. You believe me, don't you?
KIRK: Before we picked you up, our ship sustained a number of incredible effects.
LAZARUS: That was he! He's death, anti-life, he lives to destroy.
KIRK: Is he the thing that attacked you?
LAZARUS: Yes. I give you my word. I swear it.
KIRK: We don't have any other facts, any information.
LAZARUS: Then you'll join me in my holy cause? Help me in visiting justice and vengeance upon him.
KIRK: My only cause is the safety of my ship and the mission we're on. You'll beam down with me and I'll check your story out.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Spock, find anything?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Anything from our guest?
KIRK: According to him, there's a creature of some sort down here, a humanoid.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura communicated that information. I ordered re-confirmation on our sensors. They indicate no living creature on this planet. I suggest, Captain, that you've been lied to.
LAZARUS: Captain, you yourself said there were no other explanations. Why do you give credence to this man?
SPOCK: I fail to comprehend your indignation, sir. I've simply made the logical deduction that you are a liar.
KIRK: Let's have it. The truth this time.
LAZARUS: No! You've come back in, is it? Well, don't stop. Here I am. Come at me again. We'll finish it!
KIRK: Can you identify that?
SPOCK: I'm trying, Captain.
KIRK: Lazarus! You stay here. All personnel, security red.
LAZARUS: Come! Come! It'll do you no good. I'll chase you to the very fires of hell!
KIRK: Lazarus, what happened?
LAZARUS: I saw it again. The thing. It attacked me.
KIRK: Let's get out of here.
SPOCK: Captain, readings of the effect indicate it centerd here on this planet, almost on this very spot.
LAZARUS: I told you it was a thing. All white, black and empty. A terrible emptiness.
KIRK: Let's get back to the ship.
LAZARUS: He'll kill us all if we don't kill him first! Kill! Kill! Kill! Kill! Kill!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3088.3. We continue to orbit the dead planet, which seems to be the source of the phenomenon which has struck the Enterprise and all sections of the galaxy once again. As for Lazarus, the story he tells me about the humanoid continues to trouble me.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Any luck?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. I can no more explain the occurrence of the second phenomenon than I can the first.
KIRK: If there's a shred of truth to what Lazarus said
SPOCK: That a single creature, a humanoid could be responsible for an effect of such magnitude?
KIRK: Hard to believe.
SPOCK: Indeed.
KIRK: But the rest of his story seems to fit. His wounds testify to an apparent confrontation with something.
SPOCK: Affirmative.
KIRK: Assuming there is a humanoid, a something, how does he do it? He has no weapons, no power.
SPOCK: Captain, I only know for certain that the occurrence of the phenomenon coincides exactly with the moments that Lazarus has his alleged confrontations.
UHURA: Doctor McCoy asking to see you in sickbay, Captain.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: I don't know, Jim. Maybe I'm imagining things, and maybe I'm not. You tell me.
KIRK: You tell me. That's why you brought me down here, isn't it.
MCCOY: Well, as you know, we both brought Lazarus in here and I treated a deep abrasion on his forehead, right?
KIRK: Right.
MCCOY: Then I bandaged it, I stepped into this room for just a moment
KIRK: Bones, I've got a lot of things to do. Get to the point.
MCCOY: Well, say he's got the constitution of a dinosaur, recuperative powers ditto. As we both know, I'm a bright young medic with a miraculous touch. Why then, when I returned, there wasn't a trace of that wound on his forehead. Not even a bruise. It was like he had never been injured.
KIRK: Where is he?
MCCOY: I don't know, Jim. This is a big ship. I'm just a country doctor.

[Rec room]
ENGINEER: Hi.
MASTERS: Hi. Coffee?
ENGINEER: Is that an order, Lieutenant?
MASTERS: I know what you mean. Re-amplification finished on the dilithium crystals?
ENGINEER: Yes. Ready and waiting.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Lazarus, are you all right?
LAZARUS: Yes. But impatient. Have you decided to help me yet?
LAZARUS: Is something wrong?
KIRK: No. I have a ship's physician with a strange sense of humor.
MCCOY: This is no joke, Jim. I know what I saw.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge calling the captain.
KIRK: Go.
SPOCK (voiceover): Request you come to the Bridge, Captain.
KIRK: Find something?
SPOCK (voiceover): Something quite extraordinary.
KIRK: On my way. Lazarus, you're with me. Bones, if I had time, I'd laugh.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Main screen on, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Screen on, sir.
SPOCK: Source of radiation, Captain.
KIRK: How is it the scanners didn't pick it up before?
SPOCK: Because it is not there.
KIRK: Another riddle? First Doctor McCoy, then you?
SPOCK: What I mean, Captain, is that according to our usual scanning procedures, there is nothing there that could be causing that effect.
KIRK: But it is there.
SPOCK: Affirmative. I confess I am somewhat at a loss for words. It may be described, though loosely and inaccurately, as a rip in our universe.
KIRK: A what?
SPOCK: A kind of physical warp, Captain, in which none of our established physical laws apply with any regularity. However, with the dilithium crystals, I was able to localize it.
LAZARUS: Yes! That's it! The dilithium crystals. With their power we could do it.
SPOCK: You refer to the humanoid?
LAZARUS: Yes. We've got him, Captain, we've got him.
KIRK: What do the crystals have to do with it? All they show us the point of radiation.
LAZARUS: That's just it, that's the key. That's the way to trap him. That's the solution. Captain, I beg of you. I plead, I demand. Give me the crystals.
KIRK: Out of the question. Those crystals are the very heart of the power of my ship.
LAZARUS: You fool! There won't be any ship if we don't kill him. He'll destroy all of you.
KIRK: How? Now you tell me how. All I've heard is double-talk, lies, threats, accusations that don't hold water. Now you tell me, how it presents a danger to my ship?
LAZARUS: I warn you, Captain. You'll give me the crystals.
KIRK: Don't threaten me, Lazarus.
LAZARUS: No threat intended. Captain, I'll have my vengeance.

[Engineering]
ENGINEER: Lieutenant Masters, Captain's calling.
MASTERS: Masters here.
KIRK (voiceover): Lieutenant, can you prepare an experimentation chamber in ten minutes? All dilithium crystals, full power.
MASTERS: I'll check, sir.
MASTERS: Captain. The chamber will be ready in ten minutes, sir. My assistant and I will
MASTERS: Captain! Captain!
KIRK (voiceover): Lieutenant, what is it? What's wrong? Lieutenant?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, Security reports Lazarus missing.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3088.7. We are no closer to finding an answer to the strange phenomenon than we were at the beginning. Not only have two of my crewmen been attacked, two of our dilithium crystals are missing, and without them the Enterprise cannot operate at full power. They must be found.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Fact. You said you needed the crystals. Fact. An hour after you said you must have them, they were missing. Fact. Two of my crewmen were attacked.
LAZARUS: And fact, Captain. I didn't take the crystals. I'm not the one. Find my enemy, find the beast, and you'll find the crystals.
KIRK: How'd this beast get aboard my ship?
LAZARUS: He did. Isn't that enough?
KIRK: No. He didn't transport up. A report would've been made.
LAZARUS: I tell you we're dealing with a creature capable of destroying worlds.
SPOCK: Why does he need the crystals? For what reason?
LAZARUS: For the same reason that I do. Listen to me. He's humanoid. Why, he he can pilot a spaceship. He can compute formulas to destroy races. He can steal an energy source for his vehicle so he can escape from me. Are you deaf as well as blind?
KIRK: Sit down. The crystals certainly aren't here. There's an unexplained radiation source on the planet. Obviously some connection. We'll check it out. Organize a search party immediately. Mister Lazarus will beam down with us.
LAZARUS: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: You may not have reason to thank me, depending on what we find.

[Planet surface]
LAZARUS: What do you believe now, Captain?
KIRK: I believe the missing crystals aren't in your ship. Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Unable to locate the source of radiation.
KIRK: Why not? You had it spotted on the Enterprise.
SPOCK: It has simply disappeared, Captain.
KIRK: I want every inch of this terrain checked. Look for footprints, movement, anything. Call out if you spot anything. Don't be afraid to use your weapons.
LAZARUS: Captain, look out!

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: He's coming out of it now.
LAZARUS: The thing, the thing.
MCCOY: It's all right. You're on board the Enterprise.
LAZARUS: The rock, I
MCCOY: How's your head?
LAZARUS: Aches.
KIRK: You saved my life down there. I want to thank you.
LAZARUS: Why shouldn't I?
KIRK: I have some questions I want to ask you.
MCCOY: Not now, Jim.
KIRK: It's necessary.
LAZARUS: Go ahead. It's all right.
KIRK: This is a computer report of the evidence you gave at your first screening. It calls you a liar, Lazarus. For one thing, there's no planet at the location you said you came from. There never has been. If you want help from us, you'd better start telling the truth.
LAZARUS: You wouldn't believe me if I told you.
KIRK: Try us.
LAZARUS: All right. I distorted a fact in the interest of self-preservation, for my holy cause. I needed help, not censure. Freedom, not captivity for being a madman. I was afraid that's what you'd call me if I told you the truth.
KIRK: I'll have the truth now.
LAZARUS: My planet, my Earth, or what's left of it, is down there beneath us.
KIRK: What are you saying?
LAZARUS: My spaceship is more than just that. It's a time chamber, a time-ship, and I. I am a time traveler.
KIRK: And this thing you search for is a time traveler, too?
LAZARUS: Oh, yes. He's fled me across all the years, all the empty years to a dead future on a murdered planet he destroyed. Help me! Give me the tools I need to kill him! The crystals! Don't let him get away! Don't let him get away.
KIRK: Lazarus, you're hurt. I know. I sympathize, but I've got four hundred and thirty other men to worry about. Now where are those crystals?
LAZARUS: I told you, he's got them. He took them. The thing! The thing!
MCCOY: He's got to get some rest, Jim. And would you get that muscleman out of my Sickbay.
KIRK: Dismissed.
MCCOY: He's in a lot of pain.
KIRK: Sometimes pain can drive a man harder than pleasure. I'm sure you know that, Doctor.
MCCOY: Well, don't worry, he's not going anywhere. Not this time.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: What have we got, Mister Spock? A magnetic effect which produces a winking-out phenomenon. A mysterious, unidentified source of radiation on the planet. Lazarus, a walking powder keg. Your rip in the universe. A so-called murdering humanoid.
SPOCK: True, Captain, but more significant to me is the fact that our ship's instruments are specifically designed to locate and identify any object in our universe, be it energy or matter.
KIRK: But by using those instruments you were unable to identify the source of the radiation on the planet.
SPOCK: Correct. Which would seem to be impossible.
KIRK: Are the instruments in order?
SPOCK: Perfect working condition.
KIRK: Then what you say leads obviously to one alternative. The source of radiation is not from our universe.
SPOCK: Nor in our universe, Captain. It came from outside.
KIRK: Outside? Yes, that would explain a lot. Another universe, perhaps in another dimension, occupying the same space at the same time.
SPOCK: The possible existence of a parallel universe has been scientifically conceded, Captain.
KIRK: All right. What would happen if another universe, say a minus universe, came into contact with a positive universe such as ours?
SPOCK: Unquestionably a warp. A distortion of physical laws on an immense scale.
KIRK: Which is what we've been experiencing. The point where they come into contact, couldn't that be described as a hole?
SPOCK: Indeed. I point out that a hole in the universe or in a simple container can either allow the contents to escape
KIRK: Or what is outside to enter. The invasion that Commodore Barstow suspected.
SPOCK: There has been no evidence of a large-scale invasion.
KIRK: But a small scale invasion, Mister Spock. What is your analysis of the mental state of Lazarus?
SPOCK: Difficult, Captain. One moment, paranoid, the next, calm, mild, rational. Almost as if he were two men.
KIRK: Yes, two men. Different, but identical. And a hole in the universe. No, not a hole, A door.
SPOCK: Through which these two beings are somehow enabled to pass.
KIRK: Take a look at Lazarus. One minute he's at the point of death, the next he's alive, well, strong as a bull.
SPOCK: The cut on his forehead. First he has it, then it's gone, then he has it again.
KIRK: Which is physically impossible for one man.
SPOCK: Quite right. Unquestionably, there are two of him.
KIRK: What's going on? This leaping from universe to universe. This wild talk about a murdering creature who destroys civilisations What's the purpose?
SPOCK: Jim, madness has no purpose or reason, but it may have a goal. He must be stopped, held. Destroyed if necessary.
KIRK: I don't follow you.
SPOCK: Two parallel universes project this. One positive, the other negative. Or, more specifically, one matter, the other antimatter.
KIRK: Do you know what you're saying? Matter and antimatter have a tendency to cancel each other out. violently.
SPOCK: Precisely. Under certain conditions, when two identical particles of matter and antimatter meet
KIRK: Like Lazarus. Identical. Like both Lazarus', only one is matter and the other antimatter. If they meet.
SPOCK: Annihilation, Jim. Total, complete, absolute annihilation.
KIRK: Of everything that exists, everywhere.

[Engineering]
MASTERS: The energizer has shorted. Get out of here. Sound the alarm.
ENGINEER: Come on. You, too, Lieutenant.
MASTERS: No, I've got to stay
ENGINEER: We've got to get out of here. The whole thing might blow!

[Corridor]
MASTERS: Engineering calling Bridge. Fire! Fire in the energizing circuit.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Fire, Captain. Engineering. Situation critical.
KIRK: All available personnel, on the double. Spock, with me.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Report.
ENGINEER: Under control, sir, but it couldn't have started by itself.
SPOCK: Lazarus. A trick to get the crystals.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: Sir, you shouldn't be in here.
LAZARUS: Oh, I didn't know.

[Corridor]
KIRK: He's probably beaming down with the crystals right now. I'm going after him. You organize a security detail. Follow me as soon as you can.
SPOCK: Spock to Bridge.

[Planet surface]
LAZARUS: I'll get you now. I have a threshold. Run, run. I'll get you now.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energize.

[Planet surface]
LAZARUS: It's done, it's done! Finished, finished. It's done. It's done. It's done, it's done.
KIRK: Lazarus.
LAZARUS: Done. No! Don't! Not you!
LAZARUS: No!
LAZARUS: Welcome, Captain. I wasn't expecting you.
KIRK: No, him.
LAZARUS: Yes, him. You understand.
KIRK: Not completely. This is a parallel universe?
LAZARUS: Of course.
KIRK: Antimatter?
LAZARUS: Here, yes.
KIRK: And if identical particles meet
LAZARUS: The end of everything. Civilisation, existence, all gone. I tried to stop him, Captain. That's why I took your dilithium crystals.
KIRK: He has two more.
LAZARUS: That's very bad, Captain. If he comes through at a time of his own choosing. But I think if we hurry and you will help me, he can yet still be stopped. There's little time left. He meant to come through. When you accidentally passed through, it drained his crystals. It'll take him about ten minutes to re-energize with the equipment aboard his ship. That should give us enough time.
KIRK: Exactly what did I pass through?
LAZARUS: That's hard to explain, Captain. I call it an alternative warp. It's sort of a negative magnetic corridor where the two parallel universes meet. It's sort of a safety valve. It keeps eternity from blowing up.
KIRK: This corridor, is it what caused the magnetic effect, the winking out phenomenon?
LAZARUS: Precisely, Captain, but not because of its existence. Because, because my foe entered. The corridor is like a prison, with explosives at the door. Open the door, and the explosives might go off. Stay inside
KIRK: And the universe is safe.
LAZARUS: Both universes, Captain. Yours and mine.
KIRK: Surely Lazarus must realize what would happen if you should meet face to face outside the corridor.
LAZARUS: Of course he knows, Captain, but he's mad. You heard him. He's lost his mind. When our people found a way to slip through the warp and prove another universe, an identical one, existed, it was too much for him. He could not live knowing that I lived. He became obsessed with the idea of destroying me. The fact that it meant his own destruction, and everything else, meant nothing to him.
KIRK: So you're the terrible thing, the murdering monster. The creature.
LAZARUS: Yes, Captain. Or he is. It depends on your point of view, doesn't it? It's ready, Captain. If we can force him into the corridor while I'm waiting for him, we can put an end to this. But if he comes through at a time of his own choosing and breaks into this universe to find me
KIRK: I understand. What do you want me to do?
LAZARUS: Find him. Force him through his threshold, while I'm waiting for him, into the corridor, and I'll hold him there.
KIRK: You can't hold him forever.
LAZARUS: Can't I, Captain? You destroy his ship.
KIRK: If I destroy his ship, won't yours also be destroyed?
LAZARUS: It will.
KIRK: And your door will be closed.
LAZARUS: Yes, and so will his.
KIRK: You'll be trapped inside that corridor with him forever. At each other's throats throughout time.
LAZARUS: Is it such a large price to pay for the safety of two universes?
KIRK: I'm ready.
LAZARUS: Send him to me. I'll be waiting.
SPOCK: Lazarus.
KIRK: Stand back.
LAZARUS: No! No! No, I'm not ready! I'm not ready!
SPOCK: Take these crystals to the Enterprise.
KIRK: I must destroy that ship completely.
SPOCK: What of Lazarus?
KIRK: And what of Lazarus?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Activate phaser banks.
LESLEY: Phaser banks activated.
KIRK: Stand by to fire.
LESLEY: Phasers standing by, sir.
KIRK: Fire phasers. (A sustained burst hits the little saucer, while the two Lazarus' wrestle in non-space. Finally it disappears.)
KIRK: All right, Mister Lesley, let's get out of here. Ahead warp factor one.
LESLEY: Warp one, sir.
KIRK: Everything's all right, Mister Spock, for us.
SPOCK: There is, of course, no escape for them, sir.
KIRK: There is, of course, no escape. How would it be? Trapped forever with a raging madman at your throat until time itself came to a stop? For eternity. How would it be?
SPOCK: Captain, the universe is safe.
KIRK: For you and me. But what of Lazarus? What of Lazarus?

[US
Air Force base - radar room]
WEBB: Captain.
CAPTAIN: What is it, Webb?
WEBB: A blip, sir. Just came on the screen.
CAPTAIN: How do you read it?
WEBB: Aircraft of some sort. By the size of it and the speed, it's not one of ours, sir. It doesn't even read like anything I've ever seen.
CAPTAIN: What was the approach?
WEBB: None, sir. It was just there, like it fell out of the sky or something.
CAPTAIN: Current position?
WEBB: Directly over the Omaha installlation, sir. Holding there.
CAPTAIN: Watch the scope, Webb. Air Defense will want to send somebody up for a closer look. We may have a real UFO on our hands. (The alert sounds, a fighter is scrambled, and we get a shot of the USS Enterprise flying across the blue sky.) Captain 's log Stardate 3113.2. We were en-route to Starbase 9 for resupply when a black star of high gravitational attraction began to drag us toward it. It required all warp power in reverse to pull us away from the star. But, like snapping a rubber band, the breakaway sent us plunging through space, out of control, to stop here, wherever we are.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Except for secondary systems, everything is out, sir. We're on impulse power only.
KIRK: Auxiliaries?
SPOCK: If Mister Scott is still with us, auxiliaries should be on momentarily. Are you all right, Lieutenant?
SPOCK: Mister Scott is still with us.
KIRK: This is the Captain. Damage control parties on all decks, check in. All departments tie in with the record computer. Report casualties and operational readiness to the First Officer. Kirk out. Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet Control. I want them alerted to the position of that black star that's in the area of Starbase 9.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Captain? Casualty reports indicate only minor injuries. Engineering reports warp engines non-operational. Mister Scott overrode the automatic helm setting and is holding us in orbit on impulse power.
KIRK: Orbit where?
SPOCK: Earth, Captain. We were on a general course in this direction when we were pulled in by the star. Apparently the breakaway threw us on in the same direction.
KIRK: Screen on.
SPOCK: We are too low in the atmosphere to retain this orbit, Captain. Engineering reports we have sufficient impulse power to achieve escape velocity.
KIRK: Give us some altitude, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir. Helm answering. She's sluggish, sir.
UHURA: Captain, normal Starfleet channel has nothing but static. I'm getting something on another frequency, but it's not Starfleet.
KIRK: Put it on audio.
MAN (voiceover): This is the five thirty news summary. Cape Kennedy. The first manned Moon shot is scheduled for Wednesday, six am Eastern Standard Time. All three astronauts who are to make this historic
KIRK: Manned Moon shot? That was in the late 1960s.
SPOCK: Apparently, Captain, so are we.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: Whiplash propelled us into a time warp, Captain. Backward. Exact chronometer readings in a few moments.
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting ground to air transmission.
SPOCK: Verified. Scanners report some type of craft approaching from below us. Under cloud cover and closing.

[Jet fighter]
FLIGHT (voiceover): Bluejay 4, this is Blackjack. We're tracking you and the UFO.
CHRISTOPHER: I have him on my screen. Following.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, can you gain altitude faster? I want to outdistance him.
SULU: Picking up, sir, but she's still slow in responding.

[Jet fighter]
CHRISTOPHER: Blackjack, this is Bluejay 4. UFO is picking up speed and climbing. I'm going in closer.
FLIGHT (voiceover): Bluejay 4, you should be close enough for visual contact.
CHRISTOPHER: I can see it now. Whatever this is, it's big. Two cylindrical projections on top, one below. Purpose undetermined.
FLIGHT (voiceover): We have two flights scrambled and on the way. They should rendezvous in your sector in two minutes.
CHRISTOPHER: I won't be here. The UFO's climbing away fast.

[Bridge]
FLIGHT (voiceover): Bluejay 4, you are ordered to close on the UFO. and attempt to force him to land. We want it brought down or at least disabled until the other planes arrive.
CHRISTOPHER (voiceover): Acknowledged. Closing on target.
SPOCK: Positive identification, Captain. Aircraft is an interceptor, equipped with missiles, possibly armed with nuclear warheads. If he hits us with one, he might damage us severely, perhaps beyond our capacity to repair under current circumstances.
KIRK: Scotty, activate tractor beam. Lock onto that aircraft and hold it out there.
SPOCK: Captain, this type of aircraft might be too fragile to take our tractor beam.
SCOTT (voiceover): Tractor beam on, sir. We have the target.
SPOCK: Aircraft is breaking up, Captain. KIRK; Transporter room. Can you lock onto the cockpit of that aircraft?
KYLE: Scanning area, sir.
KIRK: Try and beam that pilot aboard. Take over, Mister Spock.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
CHRISTOPHER: You speak English.
KIRK: That's right. You can step off the transporter
CHRISTOPHER: Captain John Christopher, United States Air Force. Serial number 4857932.
KIRK: Relax, Captain, you're among friends. I'm Captain James T. Kirk.
CHRISTOPHER: What's going on here? Where am I? What happened? You people, who are you?
KIRK: All in good time, Captain. Meanwhile, let me apologize for bringing you aboard the ship so abruptly, but it couldn't be helped. I didn't know that your craft couldn't stand up to our tractor beam.
CHRISTOPHER: Don't give me any double-talk. Just tell me who you are.
KIRK: We'll tell you what we decide to tell you in a few moments. In the meantime, relax. You're our guest. I have a feeling you'll find it interesting.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK (voiceover): The aircraft has completely broken up, Captain. Shall we turn off the tractor beam?
KIRK: Affirmative. We have the pilot aboard. I'll be right up. Kirk out. Follow me.

[Corridor]
CREWWOMAN: Good morning, Captain.
KIRK: Morning. Captain.
CHRISTOPHER: A woman?
KIRK: Crewman.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge.
CHRISTOPHER: Must have taken quite a lot to build a ship like this.
KIRK: There are only twelve like it in the fleet.
CHRISTOPHER: I see. Did the Navy
KIRK: We're a combined service, Captain. Our authority is the United Earth Space Probe Agency.
CHRISTOPHER: United Earth?
KIRK: This is very difficult to explain. We're from your future. A time warp placed us here. It was an accident.
CHRISTOPHER: You seem to have a lot of them. However, I can't deny the fact that you're here. With this ship.

[Bridge]
CHRISTOPHER: I never have believed in little green men.
SPOCK: Neither have I.
KIRK: Captain Christopher, this is my First Officer, Lieutenant Commander Spock.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Feel free to look around, Captain. Don't touch anything, but I think you'll find it interesting.
CHRISTOPHER: Interesting is a word and a half for it, Captain.
SPOCK: We've achieved a stable orbit out of Earth's atmosphere. Our deflectors are operative, enough to prevent our being picked up again as a UFO. And Mister Scott wishes to speak to you about the engines.
KIRK: Very well, Mister Spock. Anything else on your mind?
SPOCK: Captain Christopher.
KIRK: What about him?
SPOCK: We cannot return him to Earth, Captain. He already knows too much about us and is learning more. I do not specifically refer to Captain Christopher, but suppose an unscrupulous man were to gain certain knowledge of man's future? Such a man could manipulate key industries, stocks, and even nations. and in so doing, change what must be. And if it is changed, Captain, you and I and all that we know might not even exist.
KIRK: Your logic can be most annoying.
KIRK: That flight suit must be uncomfortable. Why don't you have the quartermaster issue him something more suitable? Then I want to meet you and him in my quarters.
SPOCK: Yes, sir. {Captain's quarters]
KIRK: Computer on. Record.
COMPUTER: Recording.
KIRK: Come.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Engineering Officer Scott informs warp engines damaged, but can be made operational and reenergized.
COMPUTER: Computed and recorded, dear.
KIRK: Computer, you will not address me in that manner. Compute.
COMPUTER: Computed, dear.
KIRK: Mister Spock, I ordered this computer and its interlinking systems repaired.
SPOCK: I have investigated it, Captain. To correct the fault will require an overhaul of the entire computer system and a minimum of three weeks at a Starbase.
KIRK: I wouldn't mind so much if it didn't get so affectionate.
SPOCK: It also has an unfortunate tendency to giggle.
CHRISTOPHER: I take it that a lady computer is not routine.
SPOCK: We put in at Cygnet Fourteen for general repair and maintenance. Cygnet Fourteen is a planet dominated by women. They seemed to feel the ship's computer system lacked a personality. They gave it one. Female, of course.
CHRISTOPHER: Well, you people certainly have interesting problems. I'd love to stay around to see how your girlfriend works out, but
KIRK: I'm afraid you'll have to. We can't send you back.
CHRISTOPHER: Can't? Spock here told me that your transporter can beam down an object even from an orbit this high.
KIRK: It's not the transporter. It's you. You know what the future looks like. If anybody else finds out, they could change the course of it, destroy it.
CHRISTOPHER: Well then my disappearance would change something, too.
SPOCK: I have run a computer check on all historical tapes. They show no record of any relevant contribution by John Christopher.
CHRISTOPHER: Look, Captain, I don't buy all your time accident story. The experts can figure out who you are and what you are. It's my duty to report what I've seen. Well, what would you do?
KIRK: I'd report, If I could. We can't take the risk.
CHRISTOPHER: I don't want to know about risks. I have a wife, two children. What about them?
KIRK: I'm sorry.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engine room to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): What is it, Scotty?
SCOTT: Progress report, sir. Everything's jury-rigged, but we're coming along with the repairs. We could re-energize in about four hours, but

[Captain's quarters]
KIRK: But what, Scotty?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Well sir, as I say, the engines are being repaired, but we've no place to go in this time. If you, if you see what I mean?

[Captain's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): Sir?
KIRK: Yes, Scotty. Carry on.
CHRISTOPHER: Too bad, Captain. Maybe I can't go home, but neither can you. You're as much a prisoner in time as I am. Captain's Log Stardate 3113.7. Our engines are being repaired, but we are still locked in time, and we have aboard a passenger whom we do not want, and we cannot return.

[Captain's quarters]
COMPUTER: Recommendation for his disposition, dear?
KIRK: Maintenance note. My recording computer has a serious malfunction. Recommend it either be corrected or scrapped. Compute.
COMPUTER: Computed.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Have some new information regarding Captain Christopher. Important I see you both immediately.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. Report to my quarters. I'll contact Captain Christopher.
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes, sir. Bridge out.
KIRK: Captain Christopher. Captain Christopher? Security, this is the Captain.
CHIEF (voiceover): Security Chief here, sir. Kirk; All decks alert. Captain Christopher is not in his assigned quarters. He may be trying to escape the ship. I want a man outside the transporter room immediately. I'm heading there myself.

[Transporter room]
CHRISTOPHER: All right. Nice and easy. Now I'm going to step into that thing, and you're going to transport me back to Earth.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Well, Jim, with the exception of a slight bruise or two, our Captain is as healthy as a proverbial horse. He'll be coming out of it in a minute or two.
KIRK: He tried to escape. I know how he feels, but I can't send him back with what he knows.
MCCOY: Jim, what if we can't go back? What do we do, sit up here and wait for our supplies to run out, our power to die? It has to eventually, you know. We certainly can't go back to Earth. It would be worse than the Captain being returned. There are four hundred and thirty of us, and that means four hundred and thirty chances of altering the future.
KIRK: Yes. But we're not in that position yet.
MCCOY: I'm glad to hear it.
KIRK: And if we do get back to where we belong, then he won't belong. We're roughly about the same age, but in our society he'd be useless. Archaic.
MCCOY: Maybe he could be retrained, reeducated.
KIRK: Now you're sounding like Spock.
MCCOY: If you're going to get nasty, I'm going to leave.
KIRK: Could he be retrained to forget his family? His children?
CHRISTOPHER: The answer to that is no.
KIRK: You all right?
CHRISTOPHER: Yeah. I see physical training is required in your service, too.
SPOCK: Crude methods, but effective.
CHRISTOPHER: What does he mean by that?
MCCOY: It's just a joke, Captain.
KIRK: You said you had some additional information, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I made an error in my computations.
MCCOY: Oh? This could be an historic occasion.
SPOCK: I find that we must return Captain Christopher to Earth after all.
CHRISTOPHER: Why? You said I made no relative contribution.
SPOCK: Poor choice of words on my part. I neglected, in my initial run-through, to correlate the possible contributions by offspring. I find, after running a crosscheck on that factor, that your son Colonel Shaun Geoffrey Christopher headed, or will head, the first successful Earth-Saturn probe, which is a rather significant
CHRISTOPHER: Wait a minute. I don't have a son.
MCCOY: You mean yet.
SPOCK: The doctor is correct. Unless we return Captain Christopher to Earth, There will be no Colonel Shaun Geoffrey Christopher to go to Saturn.
KIRK: Well, that's it, isn't it? We'll have to find some way of
CHRISTOPHER: A boy. I'm going to have a son.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Acknowledging that we must return Captain Christopher, there are several problems, prime of which is the explanation of his return. We tracked his plane wreckage down after our tractor beam crushed it. It crashed in an open section of southern Nebraska.
KIRK: That means those search parties will be crawling all over that wreckage.
SPOCK: And Captain Christopher himself complicated the matter.
CHRISTOPHER: When I made visual contact, I turned on my wing cameras. I got close enough to take some pretty clear pictures of you. Air Defense Command will be processing that film fast. And ADC Control was probably recording my radio transmissions.
KIRK: If I remember my history, these things were being dismissed as weather balloons, sun dogs, explainable things. At least publicly.
SPOCK: Captain, our tractor beam caught and crushed an Air Force plane. It'll be impossible to explain this as anything other than a genuine UFO. Possibly alien, definitely destructive.
KIRK: What about our problem, Mister Spock? Any ideas on how to get us back to our own time?
SPOCK: A theory. A reverse application of what happened to us. Logically, it could work. Also, logically, there are a hundred variables, any one of which could put us in a worse position than we're in now.
KIRK: We're going to have to go back and get those reports and photos. If the Captain feels duty bound to report what he saw, there won't be any evidence to support him.
CHRISTOPHER: That makes me out to be either a liar or a fool.
KIRK: Perhaps.
SPOCK: Not at all. You'll simply be one of the thousands who thought he saw a UFO.
CHRISTOPHER: Captain, I know that base. I was stationed there a year ago. I'd like to
KIRK: No, Captain. Thank you, but if anything should go wrong, you might get hurt. We couldn't risk that. Neither could you or your son.
CHRISTOPHER: Well, I'd like to help. I could sketch a layout of the place for you. Show you where the record section and the photo lab are.

[498 Airbase Group Air Defense Command]
KIRK: Primitive computer. I've seen them demonstrated in museums.
SULU: Me, too. If this one's like those, it'll make the devil's noise if you start it.
KIRK: I don't intend to start it.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: How long have they been down there now?
SPOCK: Fifteen minutes, twenty eight seconds.
MCCOY: Well, shouldn't they be coming up?
SPOCK: It is a fact, Doctor, that prowling by stealth is more time-consuming than a direct approach. In our case
MCCOY: Shouldn't you be working on your time warp calculations, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I am.

[ADC Statistical Services]
SERGEANT: Hold it. Get your hands up. Now, one at a time, hand me those belts.
SERGEANT: And the bag.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: It's been too long. Jim should have at least signaled by now.
SPOCK: You may be correct, Doctor. Open communicator channel.

[ADC Statistical Services]
SERGEANT: What was that?
KIRK: What was what?
SERGEANT: That noise.
SULU: I didn't hear anything.
SERGEANT: That noise. It's coming from one of these things.
SULU: The emergency signal.
SERGEANT: Stay right where you are.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: One emergency signal, sir.
SPOCK: Beam up immediately.
MCCOY: Only one signal. What happened?
SPOCK: We'll know in a moment, Doctor.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK: Spock here. Are you all right, Captain?

[ADC Statistical Services]
KIRK: Yes, I'm all right, but as you can see, we have another problem. Captain 's Log, Stardate 3113.9. First Officer Spock recording. Due to an unfortunate accident, we have taken aboard another unwanted passenger.

[ADC Statistical Services]
KIRK: Your surprise package is an Air Police sergeant from the base.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): I want you to keep him in the transporter room. No sense in letting him see more of the ship than is necessary.
SPOCK: I don't believe there'll be trouble in that respect, Captain.
SPOCK: Our guest seems quite satisfied to remain where he is.

[ADC Statistical Services]
KIRK: Kirk out. What was the chronometer reading when we first sighted Christopher's jet?
SULU: Five thirty in that time zone, maybe a little after.
KIRK: Put it at the end of these tapes, will you? Get them all.

[Photo lab]
KIRK: We'll try the darkroom.

[Guard room]
FELLINI: Photo lab.

[Dark room]
KIRK: Yes, that's it. That's all of them. Signal Mister Spock that we're almost ready to beam up. I'll make a check of the files just in case.
SULU: Yes, sir.

[Photo lab]
FELLINI: All right. Where's the other one?
KIRK: What other one?
FELLINI: Your partner. I saw you looking that was and I saw somebody move in there.
KIRK: No, no, no. Just me. Besides, could anyone get out of here without your seeing them?
FELLINI: No. Nobody should have been able to.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Your decision to beam up was quite correct, Mister Sulu.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engine room to Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here.
SCOTT (voiceover): We've completed re-energizing the warp engines, sir. We can re-fire them anytime.
SPOCK: Do so now, engineer. We'll need all power to test our theory.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir. Engine room out.
SPOCK: Poor photography.
MCCOY: Blast your theories and observations, Mister Spock. What about Jim? He's down there alone, probably under arrest. He doesn't have a communicator, and we can't locate him or beam him back aboard without one.
SPOCK: I am aware of that, Doctor. This is the first officer. Captain Christopher to the briefing room.

[Guard room]
FELLINI: Now, look, Mister. You and I had better start communicating. I want to know how you got in here. That's a simple question. Give me a simple answer. Nobody saw you. You got all the way inside without tripping any alarm. How did you do it?
KIRK: Believe me, Colonel, you wouldn't believe me.
FELLINI: Don't try to be funny. How did you get in?
KIRK: I popped in out of thin air.
FELLINI: You seem to think this is some kind of a game.
KIRK: No, Colonel. I know it's no game.
FELLINI: All right. What did you say your name was?
KIRK: For the fourth time, my name is James T. Kirk.
FELLINI: And how did you get inside a top security installlation, James T. Kirk?
KIRK: I told you, you wouldn't believe me.
KIRK: Colonel, would you mind being careful with that?
FELLINI: That worries you a little bit, huh? What is that, a radio? Transmitter of some kind?
KIRK: Of some kind.
FELLINI: You can be more specific than that, Kirk. I don't like mysteries.
KIRK: If you don't stop being careless with that, you'll have one. A big one.
FELLINI: I'll have it disassembled and examined. We are not dummies, mister. We know how to find out things we want to know. What is that? Is that a uniform of some kind?
KIRK: This little thing? Just something I slipped on.
FELLINI: Kirk, maybe you don't realize how serious this is. Sabotage of a government installlation
KIRK: Did I sabotage something?
FELLINI: No. We stopped you in time. But what would you have done if we hadn't found you?
KIRK: Believe me, Colonel, nothing at all.
FELLINI: Is that what you're here for? Nothing at all?
KIRK: That's what would have happened if you hadn't interfered.
FELLINI: All right, Kirk. Maybe this will make you laugh. Sabotage, espionage, unauthorized entry, burglary. How are those for starters? And I can think up lots more if you don't start talking.
KIRK: All right, Colonel. The truth is, I'm a little green man from Alpha Centauri. A beautiful place. You ought to see it.
FELLINI: I am going to lock you up for two hundred years.
KIRK: That ought to be just about right.

[Briefing room]
CHRISTOPHER: He's probably being held in security section. Even if they've notified the authorities, it'll take a little time for someone to get there.
SPOCK: Quite logical, Captain. Can you give us the co-ordinates to beam down a landing party near those interrogation rooms?
CHRISTOPHER: Yes, but you're not going to get them unless you take me with you.
SPOCK: I can't do that, Captain.
MCCOY: If something went wrong
CHRISTOPHER: Something's already gone wrong. Of course, you could beam down anywhere inside that base, but it would take time to find him.
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, you and Captain Christopher will beam down with me. The captain will provide the co-ordinates for the transporter chief.
SULU: Shall I issue phasers?
SPOCK: One for you, one for me. Set them on heavy stun force.
SULU: Yes, sir.
CHRISTOPHER: You don't trust me, Spock.
SPOCK: In fact, I do. But only to a certain point.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Energize.
SERGEANT: Do they do that all the time?
KYLE: Are you hungry?
SERGEANT: Uh-huh.
KYLE: What would you like?
SERGEANT: Maybe some chicken soup.
SERGEANT: It is.

[Air Base - Corridor]
GUARD: Just a minute, sir. Hold it.

[Guard room]
FELLINI: See what that is, airman.
SPOCK: Don't you find that painful, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, I do. What's he doing here?
SPOCK: He knew the exact beam down co-ordinates for this section of the base. It was necessary to bring him along.
KIRK: I see. No harm done. Mister Sulu, did you check out those tapes?
SULU: Mister Spock ran them through. They were the right ones. We got them all.
CHRISTOPHER: They know you've been here.
KIRK: All they have is a mystery and no answers. Mister Sulu, signal the Transporter Chief. Four to beam up.
SULU: Yes, sir.
CHRISTOPHER: Uh-uh. Not me.
KIRK: Don't be a fool. You know what's at stake.
CHRISTOPHER: You bet I do. My family. A son that isn't born yet. You don't have to return me now, Captain. Spock, come out of there.
KIRK: You can't explain your presence on the base.
CHRISTOPHER: I told you it's my duty to report everything I've seen. That's explanation enough. Spock!
KIRK: You'll go home, Christopher but you'll do it our way.
CHRISTOPHER: Over my dead body.
SPOCK: I suspected he might not wish to return with us.
KIRK: Four to beam up, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir. Captain's Log, Stardate 3114.1. We must make an attempt to break free of this time, or we and our reluctant passengers will remain its prisoners. All we have is a theory and a few facts.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Mister Scott and I both agree that the only possible solution is the slingshot effect, like the one that put us here. My computations indicate that if we fly toward the sun, seek out its magnetic attraction, then pull away at full power, the whiplash will propel us into another time warp.
CHRISTOPHER: Slingshot effects are fine for you people. How do you propose to return the Sergeant and me?
SPOCK: Logically, as we move faster and faster toward the sun, we'll begin to move backward in time. We'll actually go back beyond yesterday, beyond the point when we first appeared in the sky. Then, breaking free will shoot us forward in time, and we'll transport you back before any of this happened.
KIRK: You won't have anything to remember, because it never would have happened.
CHRISTOPHER: What if you can't pull free of the sun?
SCOTT: Oh, we'll do that all right, Captain. We'll not be getting so close that my engines couldn't pull us out. What I am worried about, sir, that we may not have much control when we're thrown forward again.
KIRK: Helm control?
SCOTT: Braking control, sir. If I can't stop us soon enough, we may overshoot our time, and if I stop the engines suddenly the strain may tear us apart. Anyway we do it, it's a mighty rough ride.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, we all have to take a chance. Especially if one is all you have. Assume your stations.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Ahead warp factor three, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Warp factor three, sir.
CHRISTOPHER: I never thought I'd make it into space. I was in line to be chosen for the space program but I didn't qualify.
KIRK: Take a good look around, Captain. You made it here ahead of all of them.
SULU: Sir, our speed is increasing. We're traveling at over warp eight.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Since we've passed Mercury, the sun's pull on us has increased greatly. From here, we'll move even faster. And Captain, notice the chronometers. They've started backward. Minute by minute, the speed of time passage will now increase.
KIRK: Get your gear. Report to the transporter room. And Captain Christopher, you only have about fifteen years, so you'd better hurry.
SPOCK: Approaching breakaway point. On the countdown. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
KIRK: Now, Mister Sulu. More power, Mister Sulu.
SULU: It's maximum now, sir. She's fighting it.
SPOCK: We've broken free and heading back.
SULU: Gaining speed now, Captain. We're now at warp four, warp seven. Eight. Off the dial, sir.
SPOCK: Chronometers moving forward again, Captain.
KIRK: Do you have the chronometer reading and the co-ordinates to return Captain Christopher and the guard?
SPOCK: Computed.
KIRK: Bridge to transporter room. Captain Christopher. {Transporter room]
CHRISTOPHER: This is Christopher.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We're coming up on Earth fast, Captain. Are you ready?
CHRISTOPHER (voiceover): Everything A-OK.

[Transporter room]
CHRISTOPHER: Captain, thanks for the look ahead.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Our pleasure, Captain. Bridge out.
SPOCK: Twenty minutes, sir. It'll be close.
KIRK: Bridge to transporter room. Prepare to energize.
SPOCK: Ten minutes. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
KIRK: Energize.

[Jet Fighter]
FLIGHT: You should be close enough for a visual contact.
FLIGHT: Bluejay Four. Can you see it? What is it? Bluejay 4. Come in. We've lost the image.
CHRISTOPHER: Blackjack, this is Bluejay Four. I could have sworn there was some kind of ship, but nothing could have moved that fast.
FLIGHT: We don't track mirages.

[Bridge]
CHRISTOPHER (voiceover): Mark it down as another UFO. Bluejay Four returning to base. Out.
SPOCK: Approaching second beaming, Captain.
KIRK: Bridge to transporter room, prepare to energize.
SPOCK: Now.
KIRK: Energize.
SULU: Past Pluto, sir.
KIRK: What's our reading, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Approaching our century, Captain. Braking should begin now.
KIRK: Bridge to engineering. Begin full braking power.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Pulling away from the sun weakened them, sir. They may blow apart if I reverse.

[Bridge]
KIRK: No choice, Mister Scott.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Fifty years to go.
SULU: Engines cutting back, sir. No decrease in speed.
SPOCK: Forty, thirty.
KIRK: Never mind, Mister Spock.
SULU: The engines!

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Engine room to Bridge. Engines are on full reverse. They're buckling! Bridge!

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Scott is still with us.
UHURA: Captain.
STARFLEET (voiceover): Starfleet Control calling Enterprise. Come in, Enterprise.
KIRK: Open a channel, Uhura.
UHURA: Frequency open, sir.
KIRK: Starfleet Control, this is the Enterprise. Captain Kirk speaking.
COMPUTER: Record ship arrival, dear.
STARFLEET (voiceover): Enterprise, this is Starfleet Control. Come in, please.
KIRK: Starfleet Control, repeating message. The Enterprise is home. Kirk out.

[Street]
SULU: O'Neil, we've got to keep going. Come on, get up.
O'NEIL: It's no use. They're everywhere.
SULU: The Captain gave us an order. We've got to find some clue.
O'NEIL: It's no use, Mister Sulu. Look, there's one of them. There's another one.
SULU: Scouting party to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SULU (voiceover): Come in.
KIRK: What is it, Mister Sulu?

[Street]
SULU: Captain, beam us up quick. Emergency.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Transporter room, lock onto Sulu and O'Neil. Beam up immediately.

[Street]
O'NEIL: We've got to make a run for it. We can't just stand here.
SULU: Mister O'Neil, stand tight. They'll beam us up any minute.
O'NEIL: Run, I tell you. We've got to get out of here. You know what they're capable of.
SULU: O'Neil!

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Sulu, what is it? Where's Lieutenant O'Neil?
SULU: What? Who?
KIRK: Lieutenant O'Neil. Where is he?
SULU: You. You're not of the Body.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy.
SCOTT: Doctor McCoy, transporter room. Quickly.
SULU: You, you did it. They knew we were Archons. These are the clothes they wear, not these.
KIRK: Sulu, take it easy.
SULU: Landru. Landru.
KIRK: Sit down. What happened?
SULU: They're wonderful. They're the sweetest, friendliest people in the universe. It's paradise, my friend. Paradise.
KIRK: Lieutenant O'Neil. Where is he?
SULU: Paradise. Paradise. Captain's Log. Stardate 3156.2. While orbiting planet Beta Three trying to find some trace of the starship Archon that disappeared here a hundred years ago, a search party consisting of two Enterprise officers were sent to the planet below. Mister Sulu has returned, but in a highly agitated mental state. His condition requires I beam down with an additional search detail.

[Street]
KIRK: Materialization completed. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Odd. The expression on that man's face. The mindlessness. Vacant contentment.
KIRK: Like Sulu. If everybody on this planet is like him. Let's go.
BILAR: Joy to you, friends.
KIRK: Joy to you.
BILAR: You be strangers. Come for the Festival, are ya?
KIRK: Yes.
BILAR: Got a place to sleep it off yet? Go round to Reger's house. He's got rooms. But you'll have to hurry. It's almost the Red Hour.
KIRK: This Festival, it starts at six o'clock?
BILAR: Tula, these folks come for the Festival. Your daddy can put them up, can't he?
TULA: You're from the Valley?
LINDSTROM: We've just arrived.
TULA: My father will be glad to put you up, though. It's right over there.
BILAR: Tula, come!
KIRK: Let's get out of here.

[Hallway]
TAMAR: Welcome? You are strangers?
KIRK: Yes, that's right. We're from the valley.
HACOM: You came for the Festival?
KIRK: Yes.
HACOM: Then how come you here?
LINDSTROM: Are you Reger?
REGER: Yes.
LINDSTROM: You have a daughter named Tula.
REGER: Yes.
LINDSTROM: Well, you'd better do something. She's outside.
REGER: I know. It's Festival. It's the will of Landru.
HACOM: Reger, these are young men. They are not old enough to be excused.
REGER: They're visitors.
HACOM: Well, have they no Lawgivers in the Valley? Why be they not at the Festival?
KIRK: We heard that you might have rooms for us.
REGER: There. You see, Hacom? They've merely come looking for a place to rest afterwards.
HACOM: The Red Hour has already struck.
TAMAR: Hacom, these be strangers. The Valley has different ways.
HACOM: Do you say that Landru is not everywhere?
TAMAR: No, of course not. It's simply they may have different ways.
REGER: They've come looking for shelter. Can I turn them away? Come, please.
LINDSTROM: But the girl, out there.
HACOM: She is in festival, as you should be.
REGER: Come, please. Hurry.
HACOM: The Lawgivers should know.
TAMAR: Surely, Hacom, they already know. Are they not infallible?
HACOM: You mock them! You mock the Lawgivers. And the strangers are not of the Body. You will see.
TAMAR: But, Hacom (Hacom leaves the house.

[Room]
REGER: You can return here at the close of the Festival. It's quiet. You'll have need of rest.
KIRK: We have no plans to attend the Festival, sir.
REGER: The hour is struck. You can hear.
KIRK: I'd like to hear more about this Festival, and Landru.
REGER: Landru? You ask? You're strange. You scorn Festival? Are you? Are you?
KIRK: What about Landru?
RIOTER: Festival! Festival!
KIRK: Landru. My guess is we have until morning. Let's put the time to good use. Doctor, do atmospheric readings to determine whether there's anything in the air to account for all this. Mister Lindstrom, correlate all that you've seen with any other sociological parallels, if any. Mister Spock, you and I have some serious thinking to do. When we leave here tomorrow morning, I want to have a plan of action.
KIRK: Spock. Spock, Lindstrom. Doc.

[Hallway]
REGER: No, no it's all over now. It's all over now, child. That's all right. Quiet.
MCCOY: Excuse me.
REGER: It's all right. It's all over.
KIRK: He'll give her a shot. It'll calm her down. Trust us.
LINDSTROM: You didn't even try to bring her back. What kind of father are you?
REGER: It's Landru's will.
KIRK: What about Landru? Who is he?
TAMAR: It is true then. You did not attend the Festival last night.
KIRK: No.
REGER: Then you're not of the Body. You couldn't be.

[Drawing room]
MCCOY: She's asleep.
REGER: Are you, are you Archons?
KIRK: What if we are?
REGER: It was said more would follow. If you are indeed
TAMAR: We must hide them. Quickly. The Lawgivers.
KIRK: We can take care of ourselves.
TAMAR: Landru will know. He will come.
HACOM: He is the one. He mocked the Lawgivers. I heard him.
TAMAR: No, Hacom. It was a jest.
HACOM: The others, they were here, but they scorned the Festival. I saw it.
LAWGIVER: Tamar, stand clear.
TAMAR: I hear and obey the voice of Landru.
LAWGIVER: You attacked the Body. You have heard the Word and disobeyed. You will be absorbed.
KIRK: What do you mean, absorbed?
HACOM: There, you see? Not of the body.
LAWGIVER: You will be absorbed. The Good is all. Landru is gentle. You will come.
KIRK: We're not going anywhere.
LAWGIVER: It is the law. You must come.
KIRK: I said we're not going anywhere.
SPOCK: Evidently they're not prepared to deal with out right disobedience. How did you know?
KIRK: Everything we've seen here so far seems to indicate some sort of compulsive involuntary stimulus to action.
SPOCK: Your analysis seems logical.
LAWGIVER: It is clear that you simply did not understand. I will re-phrase. You are ordered to accompany us to the absorption chambers.
KIRK: Why did you kill that man?
LAWGIVER: Out of order. You will obey. It is the word of Landru.
KIRK: You tell Landru that we'll come in our own time and that we'll speak to him.
LAWGIVER: You cannot. It is Landru.
HACOM: Landru.
SPOCK: Fascinating. This is merely a hollow tube, Captain. No mechanism.
REGER: They're communing. We have time. Come with me.
KIRK: Where to?
REGER: To a place I know. You'll be safe there, but we must hurry. Landru will come.

[Street]
KIRK: Quite a festival they had.
REGER: Peace.
KIRK: What do you make of all this?
SPOCK: Totally illogical. Yesterday, without apparent cause or reason, they wrought total havoc. Yet today, now
KIRK: Now they're back to normal.
BILAR: Morning, friends.
ALL: Good morning, Bilar.
LINDSTROM: Your daughter. That's the man.
REGER: No, it wasn't Bilar. It was Landru. Let's hurry, we haven't much time.
REGER: It's too late. Look.
KIRK: What is it?
REGER: Landru. He's summoning the body.
SPOCK: Telepathy, Captain.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Which way, Reger?
REGER: Perhaps through there, but Landru
KIRK: We'll handle Landru, Just get us out of this.
KIRK: I don't want to hurt them. Warn them back.
REGER: They're in the Body. It's Landru.
KIRK: Phasers on stun, wide field. Fire.
KIRK: Fire.
KIRK: Security.
MCCOY: Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant O'Neil. He's one of our men.
REGER: Not anymore. He's been absorbed.
KIRK: Bring him along.
REGER: The Lieutenant is one of them. When he wakes, Landru will find us through him. Leave him there. He's our enemy. He's been absorbed.
LINDSTROM: Captain, now that we've got Lieutenant O'Neil, let's beam up out of here.
KIRK: We still don't know what's happened to the Archons. Which way? Bring him along.

[Chamber]
MCCOY: Put him over there.
KIRK: A lighting panel.
SPOCK: Amazing in this culture.
REGER: Comes from a time before Landru.
KIRK: Before Landru? How long ago was that?
REGER: Nobody knows positively. Some say as long ago as six thousand years.
SPOCK: It took a very advanced technology to construct a device like this. Inconsistent with this environment
KIRK: But not inconsistent with what we've seen. Security.
KIRK: Those staffs. Hollow tubes. Antennae for some sort of broadcast power. What is it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Strong power generations, Captain. Near here, but radiating in all directions.
MCCOY: He'll be coming around soon, Captain.
REGER: He must not. He's been absorbed.
KIRK: Absorbed?
REGER: The Body absorbs its enemies. It only kills when it has to. When the first Archons came, they were free, out of control, opposing the will of Landru. Many were killed, many more were absorbed. When he regains consciousness, Landru will find us through him. And if the others come
KIRK: What others?
REGER: Those like you and me, who resist Landru.
SPOCK: An underground? How are you organized?
REGER: In threes. Myself, Tamar, who's dead now, and one other.
KIRK: Who?
REGER: I don't know. Tamar was my contact.
MCCOY: Give me a decision, Captain. He's coming out of it.
REGER: He must not regain consciousness. He'll destroy us all. He's of the Body.
KIRK: Give him a shot. Keep him asleep. Reger, I want some answers. This underground. If Landru is so powerful, how do you survive?
REGER: I don't know, Captain. Some of us escape the directives. Not many, but a few. It was that way when the first Archons came.
KIRK: The Archons. Tell me about them.
REGER: They had invaded the Body, but they resisted the will of Landru. You see, Landru had pulled them down from the skies.
KIRK: Pulled them down from the skies? A starship? Mister Spock, those power readings you took, are they?
SPOCK: Powerful enough to destroy a starship? Affirmative.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise, come in.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, we're under attack. There are heat beams of some kind coming up from the planet surface.
KIRK (voiceover): Status report.
SCOTT: Our shields are holding, but they're taking all our power.

[Chamber]
SCOTT (voiceover): If we try to warp out or move on impulse, we'll lose our shields and burn up like a cinder.
KIRK: Orbit condition.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Checking. We're going down, Captain. Unless we can get those beams off us so we can use our engines, we're due to hit atmosphere in less than twelve hours.

[Chamber]
KIRK: Keep your shield up. Do everything you can to maintain orbit. We'll try and locate the source of the beam and stop it here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Impossible to break away. I've tried the emergency bypass circuits but they haven't been effective.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: Sensor beams, very strong. We're being probed. In this direction.
REGER: Landru.
SPOCK: Block them out.
SPOCK: Too strong, Captain. Can't be blocked.
REGER: Oh.
LANDRU: I am Landru.
SPOCK: Projection, Captain. Unreal.
KIRK: But beautiful, Mister Spock, with no apparatus at this end.
LANDRU: You have come as destroyers. You bring an infection.
KIRK: You are holding my ship. I demand that you release it.
LANDRU: You have come to a world without hate, without fear, without conflict. No war, no disease, no crime. None of the ancient evils. Landru seeks tranquility. Peace for all. The universal good.
KIRK: We mean you no harm. Ours is a mission of peace and good will.
LANDRU: The good must transcend the evil. It shall be done. So it has been since the beginning.
SPOCK: He doesn't hear you, Captain.
LINDSTROM: Maybe he'll hear this.
KIRK: Put that away. Landru, listen to me.
LANDRU: You will be absorbed. Your individuality will merge into the unity of the good, and in your submergence into the common being of the Body, you will find contentment and fulfilllment. You will experience the absolute good.
REGER: Oh.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3157.4. The Enterprise, still under attack by some sort of heat rays from the surface of Beta Three, is now being commanded by Engineering Officer Scott. The shore party has been taken by the creature called Landru.

[Prison]
KIRK: Mister Spock. Wake up. Mister Lesley.
SPOCK: Where's Doctor McCoy?
KIRK: He was gone when I woke up, along with the other guard and Mister O'Neil.
SPOCK: I should say they've been here and been removed.
KIRK: Where is here?
SPOCK: Evidently a maximum security establishment. Are you armed?
KIRK: No. All our phasers are gone. I checked. That's locked.
LINDSTROM: Oh, does my head ache.
SPOCK: The natural result of being subjected to a hypersonic.
LINDSTROM: Oh, is that what it was?
SPOCK: Sound waves. Stronger, they might have killed us. As it was, they merely rendered us unconscious.
KIRK: Enough analysis. Let's think of a way to get out of here. What about the Lawgivers' inability to cope with the unexpected?
SPOCK: We shouldn't depend on that happening again, Captain. In a society as well organized as this one seems to be, I cannot conceive of such an oversight going uncorrected. Interesting, however. Their reaction to your defiance was remarkably similar to the reaction of a computer when fed insufficient or contradictory data.
KIRK: Are you suggesting the Lawgivers are mere computers, that they aren't human?
SPOCK: Quite human, Captain. It's simply that all the facts are not yet in. There are gaps.
KIRK: Doc. How?
MCCOY: Hello, friend. We were told to wait here.
KIRK: Doc!
MCCOY: Can I help you, friend?
KIRK: Don't you know me?
MCCOY: We all know one another and Landru.
SPOCK: Like Sulu.
KIRK: Think, man. The Enterprise. The ship. Remember?
MCCOY: You speak very strangely, friend. Are you from away?
KIRK: You do remember!
MCCOY: Ask Landru. He remembers. He knows and he watches. You are strange. Are you not of the Body?
LAWGIVER: Come.
KIRK: No.
LAWGIVER: Then you will die.
SPOCK: You've been corrected, Captain. You'd better go.
KIRK: All right. Work on Bones. See if you can't
LAWGIVER: Come.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, what will happen to him?
MCCOY: He goes to joy, peace, and tranquility. He goes to meet Landru. Happiness is to all of us, blessed by Landru.

[Absorption chamber]
MARPLON: I am Marplon. It is your hour. Happy communing.
LAWGIVER: With thanks. Happy communing.

[Prison]
LINDSTROM: Well?
SPOCK: Impossible. He's under extremely powerful control.
LINDSTROM: Are we just going to stand here?
SPOCK: Little else we can do, unless you can think of a way to get through that door.
LINDSTROM: Well, this is simply ridiculous. A bunch of stone age characters running around in robes.
SPOCK: And apparently commanding powers far beyond our comprehension. Not simple, not ridiculous. Very, very dangerous.
LAWGIVER: You. Come.

[Absorption Chamber]
KIRK: Joy to you, friend. Peace and contentment will fill you. You will know the peace of Landru.
MARPLON: Have no fear, friend. The effect is harmless. My name is Marplon. I was too late to save your first two friends. They have been absorbed. Beware of them.
SPOCK: What about the Captain?
MARPLON: He is unharmed, unchanged. I am the third man in Reger's triad. We have been awaiting your return.
SPOCK: We are not Archons, Marplon.
MARPLON: Whatever you may call yourselves, you are in fulfilllment of prophecy. We ask your help.
SPOCK: Where is Reger?
MARPLON: He will join us. He is immune to absorption. Hurry. We have not much time.
SPOCK: Who is Landru?
MARPLON: I cannot answer your questions now. Landru, he will hear. Here are your weapons. You may need them.
MARPLON: Behave as you saw your Captain behave. It is done.
SPOCK: Joy be with you. Peace and contentment.

[Prison]
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Peace and tranquility to you. Are you all right?
SPOCK: Quite all right. Be careful of Doctor McCoy.
KIRK: I understand. Landru.
SPOCK: I am formulating a theory, Captain.
KIRK: And?
SPOCK: Not here. The doctor.
MCCOY: You speak in strange whispers. This is not the way of Landru.
KIRK: Joy be yours, and tranquility, my friend.
MCCOY: And peace and harmony. Are you of the Body?
KIRK: The Body is one.
MCCOY: Blessed be the Body, and health to all of its parts.
KIRK: My friends. What is your theory, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: This is a soulless society, Captain. It has no spirit, no spark. All is indeed peace and tranquility. The peace of the factory, the tranquility of the machine. All parts working in unison.
KIRK: And when something unexplained happens, their routine is disrupted.
SPOCK: Until new orders are received. The question is, who gives those orders?
KIRK: Landru.
SPOCK: There is no Landru, Captain, not in the human sense.
KIRK: You're thinking the same thing I am. Mister Spock, the plug must be pulled.
SPOCK: Sir?
KIRK: Landru must die.
SPOCK: Captain, our Prime Directive of non-interference.
KIRK: That refers to a living, growing culture. Do you think this one is?
MCCOY: Joy to you all, friends.
MARPLON: It is the gift of Landru. I've brought your signaling devices. You may need them.
KIRK: What we need is more information about Landru. You said you wanted us to help you.
MARPLON: The prophecy says
KIRK: Never mind what the prophecy says. If you want to be liberated from Landru, we'll need your help.
SPOCK: Captain.
MCCOY: You're not of the Body!
KIRK: Peace
MCCOY: You're not!
KIRK: to you, friend. Joy and tranquility.
MCCOY: Lawgivers! Peace.
MCCOY: Lawgivers! Traitor! Traitors! Traitors!
KIRK: Doc, I don't want to hurt you.
MCCOY: Traitors!
KIRK: Spock.
KIRK: Isn't that somewhat old-fashioned? Robes.
KIRK: Where is Landru?
MARPLON: No, no.
KIRK: Where do we find him?
MARPLON: We do not see him. We hear him, in the Hall of Audiences.
KIRK: In this building?
MARPLON: Yes.
KIRK: You're going to take us there. Spock, call the Enterprise.
MARPLON: No.
KIRK: Snap out of it! Start acting like men.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise. status report.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, I've been trying to reach you.

[Prison]
SPOCK: Report, Scott.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The orbit's still decaying. I give it six hours, more or less.

[Prison]
SCOTT (voiceover): Those heat beams are still on us. You've got to cut them off, Mister Spock, or we'll cook.
KIRK: Scotty, stand by. We're doing the best we can. How's Mister Sulu?
SCOTT (voiceover): He's peaceful enough, but he worries me.
KIRK: Put a guard on him.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: On Sulu?

[Prison]
KIRK: That's an order. Watch him. Captain out.
SPOCK: Captain. KIRK; All right. About Landru.
REGER: There was war. Convulsions. The world was destroying itself. Landru was our leader. He saw the truth. He changed the world. He took us back, back to a simple time. A time of peace and tranquility.
KIRK: What happened to him?
MARPLON: He's still alive. He is here now. He sees. He hears. We have destroyed ourselves. Please, no more.
KIRK: You said you wanted freedom. It's time you learned that freedom is never a gift. It has to be earned. Come on. We're going to find Landru.
REGER: No, no, I was wrong! I submit, I bear myself to the will of Landru!
KIRK: It's too late for that.
REGER: No! Lawgivers! Help! Help me!
KIRK: All right, it's up to you. Take us to Landru.

[Hall of Audiences]
MARPLON: This is the Hall of Audiences.
KIRK: Open it.
MARPLON: But this is Landru.
KIRK: Open it.
MARPLON: Landru speaks here.
KIRK: Landru! Landru. We are the Archons. We are the Archons. We've come to speak. We are the Archons. We want to talk to you.
MARPLON: Landru! He comes!
LANDRU: Despite my efforts to save you, you have invaded the Body and you are causing great harm.
KIRK: We have no intention of causing harm.
LANDRU: Obliteration is necessary. The infection is strong. For the good of the Body, you must die. It is a great sorrow.
KIRK: We do not intend to die.
LANDRU: All who saw you, all who know of your presence here must be excised. The memory of the Body will be cleansed.
KIRK: Listen to me.
SPOCK: Useless, Captain. A projection.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. Let's have a look at the projector.
KIRK: Of course. It had to be. Landru.
SPOCK: A machine. This whole society is a machine's concept of perfection. Peace, harmony.
KIRK: But no soul.
LANDRU: I am Landru. You have intruded.
KIRK: Pull out its plug, Mister Spock.
LANDRU: Your devices have been neutralized. So it shall be with you. I am Landru.
KIRK: Landru died six thousand years ago.
LANDRU: I am Landru. I am he. All that he was, I am. His experience, his knowledge.
KIRK: But not his wisdom. He may have programd you, but he could not have given you a soul. You are a machine.
LANDRU: Your statement is irrelevant. You will be obliterated. The good of the Body is the Prime Directive.
SPOCK: The good of the Body, Captain. That's the key.
KIRK: Yes. What is the good?
LANDRU: I am Landru.
KIRK: Landru is dead. You are a machine. A question has been put to you. Answer it.
LANDRU: The good is the harmonious continuation of the Body. The good is peace, tranquility. The good of the Body is the directive.
KIRK: Then I put it to you that you have disobeyed the Prime Directive. You are harmful to the Body.
LANDRU: The body is. It exists. It is healthy.
KIRK: The body is dying. You are destroying it.
LANDRU: Do you ask a question?
KIRK: What have you done to do justice to the full potential of every individual of the Body?
LANDRU: Insufficient data.
KIRK: Without freedom of choice, there is no creativity. Without creativity, there is no life. The body dies. The fault is yours.
SPOCK: Are you aiding the body, or are you destroying it?
LANDRU: I am not programd to answer that question.
LAWGIVER: Landru! Guide us, Landru!
SPOCK: Not necessary, Captain. They have no guidance. Possibly for the first time in their lives.
KIRK: Landru, answer the question.
LANDRU: Peace, order, and tranquility are maintained. The body lives, but I reserve creativity to me.
SPOCK: Then the body dies. Creativity is necessary for the health of the Body.
LANDRU: This is impossible.
MARPLON: Is this truly Landru?
SPOCK: What's left of him, after he built and programd this machine six thousand years ago.
KIRK: You must create the good. That is the will of Landru, nothing else.
LANDRU: But there is evil.
KIRK: Then the evil must be destroyed. That is the Prime Directive. And you are the evil.
LANDRU: I think. I live.
KIRK: You are the evil. The evil must be destroyed. Fulfilll the Prime Directive.
KIRK: You
LANDRU: Landru, help me!
KIRK: are the evil. Fulfilll the Prime Directive.
LANDRU: Help me! Help me! Help me! Help me!
KIRK: Well, Marplon, you're on your own now. I hope you're up to it. And you can get rid of those robes. If I were you, I'd start look for another job. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, are you all right?

[Hall of Audiences]
KIRK: What about the ship?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The heat rays are gone, Captain, and Mister Sulu's back to normal.
SULU: Relieving you.

[Hall of Audiences]
KIRK: Excellent, Scotty. Stand by to beam up landing party. Let's go and see how the others are doing. Marplon can finish up here.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3158.7 The Enterprise is preparing to leave Beta Three in Star system C One Eleven. Sociologist Lindstrom is remaining behind with a party of experts who will help restore the planet's culture to a human form.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Marvelous.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: The late Landru, Captain. A marvelous feat of engineering. A computer capable of directing the lives of millions of human beings.
KIRK: But only a machine, Mister Spock. The original Landru programd it with all his knowledge but he couldn't give it his wisdom, his compassion, his understanding, his soul, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Predictably metaphysical. I prefer the concrete, the graspable, the provable.
KIRK: You'd make a splendid computer, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That is very kind of you, Captain.
UHURA: Captain, Mister Lindstrom from the surface.
KIRK: Yes, Lindstrom.
LINDSTROM (voiceover): I just wanted to say goodbye, Captain.
KIRK: How's it going?
LINDSTROM (voiceover): Couldn't be better. Already this morning, we've had half a dozen domestic quarrels and two genuine knock-down drag-outs. It may not be paradise, but it's certainly human.
KIRK: Sounds most promising. Good luck.
SPOCK: How often mankind has wished for a world as peaceful and secure as the one Landru provided.
KIRK: Yes. And we never got it. Just lucky, I guess.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3192.1. The Enterprise is en route to star cluster NGC 321. Objective, to open diplomatic relations with the civilisations known to be there. We have sent a message to Eminiar Seven, principal planet of the star cluster, informing them of our friendly intentions. We are awaiting an answer.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Nothing yet, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Nothing, Captain. Hailing frequencies are open.
FOX: Have you received an answer to your message yet, Captain?
KIRK: Nothing yet, Ambassador. We're awaiting a reply. Today's the first time we've had any evidence they've picked up our signal.
UHURA: Captain, message coming in from Eminiar Seven. Sir, it's code seven-ten.
KIRK: Are you sure?
UHURA: Positive. It repeats over and over.
FOX: Is that supposed to mean something?
KIRK: Code seven-ten means under no circumstances are we to approach that planet. No circumstances what so ever.
FOX: You will disregard that signal, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Fox, it is their planet.
FOX: Captain, in the past twenty years, thousands of lives have been lost in this quadrant. Lives that could have been saved if the Federation had a treaty port here. We mean to have that port and I'm here to get it.
KIRK: By disregarding code seven-ten, you might well involve us in an interplanetary war.
FOX: I'm quite prepared to take that risk.
KIRK: You are. I'm thinking about this ship, my crew.
FOX: I have my orders, Captain, and now you have yours. You will proceed on course. Achieve orbit status and just leave the rest to me. You're well aware that my mission gives me the power of command. I now exercise it. You will proceed on course. That's a direct order.
SPOCK: In view of code seven-ten, Captain, may I suggest
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. This is the Captain. Condition Yellow Alert. Phaser crews stand by. Deflector shields up. We're going in. Peacefully, I hope. But peacefully or not, we're going in.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3192.5. Now in standard orbit around planet Eminiar Seven. My orders are clear. We must establish diplomatic relations at all cost. Preparing to beam down to planet surface.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: We know very little about them. Their civilisation is advanced. They've had space flight for several centuries, but they've never ventured beyond their own solar system. When first contacted more than fifty years ago, Eminiar Seven was at war with its nearest neighbor.
KIRK: Anything else?
SPOCK: The Earth expedition making the report failed to return from its mission. The USS Valiant. Listed as missing in space.
FOX: Kirk, what's this about you going down alone?
KIRK: Not alone. I'm taking some security people with me.
FOX: It is my prerogative.
KIRK: I can't risk beaming you down there until I know what kind of reception you're going to receive. Your safety is my responsibility. Those are my orders, sir. Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Transporter room standing by, Captain.
KIRK: What co-ordinates?
SPOCK: We've selected a site which from the traffic seems to be near an official establishment.
KIRK: Final sensor readings?
SPOCK: No hostility directed toward us. No apparent notice taken of us at all, which seems strange. They did scan us when we assumed orbit. Obviously, they know we're here.
KIRK: Ship's defenses?
SPOCK: Screens down, but all defensive details on general alert status, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Landing party will pick up phaser number one's from the arsenal. Keep them inconspicuous. Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Yes, sir.
KIRK: The ship is yours. Take care of her until I come back.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir. And have a bonny trip.
KIRK: We'll do our best. Let's go.

[Eminiar Seven]
MEA: They will materialize there. Remember your instructions; They are to be treated correctly, nothing more.
KIRK: I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets.
MEA: I know. I'm Mea 3. I congratulate you on your instrumentation. You've come directly to the Division of Control. If you'll follow me, please.

[Corridor]
MEA: Captain, I wish
KIRK: Yes?
MEA: You were warned not to come here.
KIRK: I had orders to come here. Why did your people tell us to stay away?
MEA: It was for your own safety, Captain.
KIRK: I see no danger here.
MEA: The danger exists. Nevertheless, you are here. It would be morally incorrect to do less than extend our hospitality. Anan 7 and members of the High Council await you. If you will come this way, please.

[Council Room]
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk. This is my first officer, Mister Spock, Lieutenants Galloway, Osborne, Yeoman Tamula.
ANAN: Welcome to Eminiar Seven. Well, Captain, what can we do for you?
KIRK: My mission is to establish diplomatic relations between your people and mine.
ANAN: That is impossible.
KIRK: Would you mind telling me why?
ANAN: Because of the war.
KIRK: You're still at war?
ANAN: We have been at war for five hundred years.
KIRK: You conceal it very well. Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Sir, we have completely scanned your planet. We find it highly advanced, prosperous in a material sense, comfortable for your people, and peaceful in the extreme. Yet you say you are at war. There is no evidence of this.
ANAN: Casualties among our civilian population total from one to three million dead each year from direct enemy attack. That is one reason, Captain, why we told you to stay away. As long as your ship is orbiting our planet, it is in severe danger.
SPOCK: With whom are you at war?
ANAN: The third planet in our system, called Vendikar. Originally settled by our people and now a ruthless enemy. Highly advanced technologically.
ANAN: Please excuse me. Vendikar is attacking. Mea, care for our guests.
SPOCK: Strange.
KIRK: To say the least.
MEA: It will not last long.
KIRK: Don't you take shelter?
MEA: There is no shelter, Captain.
SPOCK: Are these attacks frequent?
MEA: Oh yes, and we will retaliate immediately.
MEA: Oh!
KIRK: What is it?
MEA: A hit right here in the city.
KIRK: Do you hear any explosions, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: None, Captain. Yeoman Tamula.
TAMURA: Sir?
SPOCK: Tricorder readings. Radiation. Disturbances of any kind.
TAMURA: Working, sir. No evidence.
KIRK: Mea, if this is an attack, may I ask what weapons the enemy is using?
MEA: Fusion bombs, materialized by the enemy over their targets.
KIRK: Kirk to Bridge. Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Scanners operative on the planet's surface?
SCOTT (voiceover): Of course, sir. As per orders.
KIRK: Anything unusual?
SCOTT (voiceover): Nothing, sir. All quiet.
KIRK: Thank you. Kirk out.

[War Room]
SAR: Look, Anan.
ANAN: Yes, I see it. They were warned.
SAR: Just as it happened fifty years ago.
ANAN: Alert a security detachment. They may be needed.

[Council Room]
ANAN: It's a vicious attack, extremely destructive. Fortunately, our defenses are firming, but our casualties are high. Very high.
KIRK: Sir, I have been in contact with my ship, which has had this entire planet under surveillance. All during this so-called attack of yours, we have been monitoring you. There's been no attack, no explosions, no radiations, no disturbances whatsoever. If this is some sort of game you're playing
ANAN: This is no game, Captain. Half a million people have just been killed. Activate the attack units, Sar.
SAR: Yes, Councilman.
ANAN: Launch immediate counter attack.
SPOCK: Computers, Captain. They fight their war with computers. Totally.
ANAN: Yes, of course.
KIRK: Computer don't kill a half million people.
ANAN: Deaths have been registered. Of course they have twenty four hours to report.
KIRK: To report?
ANAN: To our disintegration machines. You must understand, Captain, we have been at war for five hundred years. Under ordinary conditions, no civilisation could withstand that. But we have reached a solution.
SPOCK: Then the attack by Vendikar was theoretical.
ANAN: Oh, no, quite real. An attack is mathematically launched. I lost my wife in the last attack. Our civilisation lives. The people die, but our culture goes on.
KIRK: You mean to tell me your people just walk into a disintegration machine when they're told to?
ANAN: We have a high consciousness of duty, Captain.
SPOCK: There is a certain scientific logic about it.
ANAN: I'm glad you approve.
SPOCK: I do not approve. I understand.
ANAN: Good. Then you will recall I warned you not to come here. You chose to ignore my warning. I'm sorry, but it's happened.
KIRK: What has happened?
ANAN: Once your ship was in orbit about our planet, it became a legitimate target. It has been classified destroyed by a tricobalt satellite explosion. All persons aboard your ship have twenty four hours to report to our disintegration machines. In order to ensure their co-operation, I have ordered you, Captain, and your party held in custody until they surrender. If possible, we shall spare your ship, Captain, but its passengers and crew are already dead.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, delayed. The Enterprise, in orbit about Eminiar Seven, has been declared a casualty of an incredible war fought by computers. I and my landing party, though apparently not included as casualties aboard the Enterprise, are confined on the planet's surface, awaiting what?

[Room]
MEA: I have been sent to ask if you require anything.
KIRK: We require a great deal. I wish to speak to Anan Seven.
MEA: He's busy co-ordinating casualty lists.
KIRK: He'll have more casualty lists than he knows what to do with if he doesn't get in here and talk to me.
MEA: Don't you understand? Our duty
KIRK: Your duty doesn't include stepping into a disintegrator and disappearing.
MEA: I'm afraid mine does, Captain. I too have been declared a casualty. I must report to a disintegrator by noon tomorrow.
KIRK: Is that all it means to you? To report and die?
MEA: My life is as dear to me as yours is to you, Captain.
KIRK: Then how can you stand
MEA: Don't you see? If I refuse to report, and others refuse, then Vendikar would have no choice but to launch real weapons. We would have to do the same to defend ourselves. More than people would die then. A whole civilisation would be destroyed. Surely you can see that ours is a better way.
KIRK: No, I don't see that at all.
MEA: It's been our way for almost five hundred years. Is there anything I can bring you?
KIRK: Yes. Anan Seven.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: I tell you, we should have heard something by now.
SCOTT: Aye, Doctor, that we should, but we haven't, and we cannot raise them. You know, if there'd been trouble, they should have at least managed to get word back to us.
MCCOY: We can't just sit here.
SCOTT: What would you suggest?
MCCOY: Me? I'm a doctor. If I were an officer of the line, I'd
SCOTT: Would you have me open fire?
MCCOY: Of course not.
UHURA: Mister Scott, message coming in from the Captain.
SCOTT: Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Good news, Mister Scott. The Eminians have agreed to the establishment of full normal diplomatic relations.
SCOTT: Mister Fox'll be glad to hear about that.
KIRK: They've also extended an invitation to all personnel to come ashore, for shore leave. They've assured me that our people will have a wonderful time.
SCOTT: Er, Captain?

[War Room]
ANAN: Yes, Mister Scott?
SCOTT (voiceover): All personnel?
ANAN: All personnel. We'll transport up trained Eminians to assume support positions. Those are my orders, Mister Scott.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, aye, Captain. We'll start forming shore parties immediately. Scott out. Well now, what do you think of that?
MCCOY: I don't know.
SCOTT: Well, I do. Computer, last message received and recorded from Captain Kirk.
COMPUTER: In place.
SCOTT: Run it through analyzer. Question. Is it or is it not the Captain's voice?
COMPUTER: Negative. A close copy.
SCOTT: A voice duplicator?
COMPUTER: Ninety eight percent probability.
SCOTT: Well, they've got them, Doctor, and now they're trying to get us.

[Room]
KIRK: Are you sure you can do it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Limited telepathic abilities are inherent in Vulcanians, Captain. It may work. It may not.
KIRK: Do your best.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: My pleasure, Captain.
TAMURA: What do we do now, Captain?
KIRK: We get our communicators back and try and contact the ship. Mister Spock, we'll need more weapons.
SPOCK: I understand.
KIRK: We'll try to take it easy, but if we're forced to kill

[Corridor]
SPOCK: An entrance, Captain, but no exit. They go in, but they do not come out.
KIRK: A disintegration machine.
SPOCK: So I would assume.
KIRK: Mea. What do you think you're doing?
MEA: I'm going
KIRK: You're not going in there.
MEA: But I must.
KIRK: No you're not.
MEA: Please. All right, don't worry about me.
KIRK: Mister Spock, that guard. I'll cover you.
SPOCK: Sir, there's a multi-legged creature crawling on your shoulder.
KIRK: All right, you people, clear out of the way.
MEA: What are you doing?
KIRK: Throwing a monkey wrench into the machinery.
MEA: You can't do this.
KIRK: I've done it. Come on, let's get out of here.

[Council Room]
SECURITY (voiceover): The Federation prisoners have attacked their guard and escaped. They are armed. Disintegration station number twelve destroyed, Councilman, apparently by disruptor fire.
ANAN: All security personnel, Federation prisoners have escaped. They are to be found. They are armed. If they resist, do what is necessary. Planetary disruptor banks, calculate orbit of star cruiser now circling. Stand by to fire. Full power.
SECURITY (voiceover): Councilman, planetary disruptor banks locked onto target. Standing by.
ANAN: In ten seconds, open fire. Destroy the star cruiser. Those are the orders of the Council. Ship's log, stardate 3193.0. Chief Engineer Scott recording. The Captain and First Officer are overdue and missing on the surface of Eminiar Seven. I have taken standard precautionary measures while we continue our attempts to locate them.

[Bridge]
DEPAUL: All stations reporting. Deflector screens rigged at full power. Phaser crews ready. Sensors reading zero. Correction. Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Yes, Mister DePaul?
DEPAUL: Sensor readings just shot off the scale.
SCOTT: Well, now. They're taking pot shots at us. Holding, Mister DePaul?
DEPAUL: Screens firm, sir. Extremely powerful sonic vibrations. Decibels eighteen to the twelfth power. If those screens weren't up, we'd be totally disrupted by now.
MCCOY: Well, I guess that answers our questions, Mister Scott. They're not very friendly, are they?
SCOTT: Aye, but what about our Captain and the landing party down there somewhere?
MCCOY: We get them out.
SCOTT: If they're alive, and if we can find them. That's a big planet.
MCCOY: Not too big for the Enterprise to handle if it has to.
SCOTT: We can't fire full phasers with our screens up, and We can't lower our screens with their disruptors on us. Of course I could treat them to a few dozen photon torpedoes.
FOX: You'll do no such thing, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Mister Fox, we're under attack. They're trying to knock us down.
FOX: You have taken defensive measures.
SCOTT: Of course, but
FOX: There are no buts. Obviously it's a misunderstanding, and one of my jobs is to clear up misunderstandings.
MCCOY: They're holding our Captain.
FOX: We have no proof of that.
SCOTT: I'm responsible for the safety of this ship.
FOX: And I'm responsible for the success of this mission, and that's more important than this ship. Is that clear? We came here to establish diplomatic relations with these people.
SCOTT: But they're the ones who're looking for a fight, Mister Fox.
FOX: This is a diplomatic matter. If you check your regulations, you'll find that my orders get priority. I'll try to make contact with the planetary officials. Lieutenant, open up a channel and keep it open. Tell them to expect a priority one message from me. There will be no punitive measures, gentlemen. Those are my orders.
SCOTT: Diplomats. The best diplomat I know is a fully activated phaser bank.

[Room]
TAMURA: Why did we come back here, Captain?
KIRK: The last place they'll look for us is the place we escaped from. Cover the door.
MEA: Captain, you've got to let me go. My time is almost up.
KIRK: Are you that anxious to die?
MEA: You don't understand.
KIRK: Mister Spock, how did that little raid work out?
SPOCK: We captured four of their disrupter-type weapons, two complete outfits of male clothing, and perhaps most important of all, one of their communication devices.
KIRK: Will it reach the ship?
SPOCK: Not at this time. Its range is restricted in comparison with ours. I may be able to alter its components, but it will take time.
KIRK: Work on it. We've got to contact the ship. Mea, I want you to give me a complete layout of this building complex. How do I get to the War Room?
MEA: No!
KIRK: Now listen to me. I'm trying to help you. To save your life and the lives of millions like you. If you help me, maybe I can do it. If you don't, you'll die, we'll die, and the killing will go on. Or are you that fond of the war?
MEA: What are you going to do?
KIRK: We're going to try and stop the killing. We're trying to help. Believe me.
MEA: I believe you, but
KIRK: Tell me what I want to know. Please.

[Council Room]
ANAN: Time is running out. We have been unable to destroy the Earth ship. One of our disintegration chambers has been eliminated and we have already fallen far behind in our quota. This is a grave crisis and I am at a loss to know how to proceed.
SAR: The central channel, Anan. The Earth ambassador's calling with an urgent message.
ANAN: What is the great immorality, open honesty or a deception which may save our lives? Put me through to the Earth Ambassador.

[Bridge]
UHURA: A channel is open, Mister Ambassador. You will be speaking to Anan Seven, head of the High Council of the Eminian Union.
FOX: Mister Anan, this is Robert Fox

[Council Room]
FOX (voiceover): Special Ambassador for the United Federation of Planets.
ANAN: A great honor, Mister Ambassador.

[Bridge]
FOX: We have approached you openly

[Council Room]
FOX (voiceover): With the intent of establishing formal and friendly relations between our peoples, but now,

[Bridge]
FOX: For some reason, you have attacked us, and apparently you're holding several special representatives of our Federation.

[Council Room]
ANAN: A mistake, Mister Ambassador. We are at war.

[Bridge]
ANAN (voiceover): An error in our sensors indicated that your ship was about to attack us.

[Council Room]
ANAN: I'm giving orders that our attack be stopped.

[Bridge]
ANAN (voiceover): Now, as to your representatives, you have my sacred word as an Eminian that they are alive and well.
FOX: Thank you. I thought perhaps it was all a mistake.
DEPAUL: Mister Scott, disruptor beams are no longer hitting us.
SCOTT: Maintain status, Mister DePaul.
ANAN (voiceover): We are most anxious to establish relations with you, Mister Fox.

[Council Room]
ANAN: We will make arrangements to receive you. The minute their screens are down, open fire.
SAR: Yes, Councilman.
ANAN: I apologize deeply for the misunderstanding. These are trying times for us, you understand.

[Bridge]
FOX: I understand. Mister Anan, I presume that you have our ship's Captain on hand when I beam down.

[Council Room]
ANAN: He will be there, sir.

[Bridge]
ANAN (voiceover): I give you my word.
FOX: I'm sure that from this day forward, your planet and our Federation will attain the deepest friendship. I look forward to seeing you.
FOX: Diplomacy, gentlemen, should be a job left to diplomats. You will, of course, immediately resume a peaceful status.
SCOTT: No, sir, I will not.
FOX: What did you say?
SCOTT: I'll not lower the screens, not until the Captain tells me to.
FOX: You are taking orders from me. You will lower the screens as a sign of good faith. My authority.
SCOTT: I know about your authority, but the screens stay up.
MCCOY: Mister Fox, they faked a message from the Captain, they've launched an attack against our ship. Now you want us to trust them openly?
FOX: I want you and expect you to obey my lawful orders.
SCOTT: No, sir. I won't lower the screens.
FOX: Your refusal to comply with my orders has endangered the entire success of this mission. I can have you sent to a penal colony for this.
SCOTT: That you can, sir, but I won't lower the screens.
FOX: Your name will figure prominently in my report to the Federation Central.
MCCOY: Well, Scotty, now you've done it.
SCOTT: Aye. The haggis is in the fire for sure, but I'll not lower my defenses on the word of that mealy-mouthed gentleman down below. Not until I know what happened to the Captain.

[Anan's room]
ANAN: Won't you join me in a drink, Captain? You'll find our trova most interesting.
KIRK: I didn't come to drink.
ANAN: I assume that is what you used to destroy disintegration chamber number twelve.
KIRK: A very efficient weapon. I'm not afraid of using it.
ANAN: My first impression was correct. You are a barbarian.
KIRK: I am?
ANAN: Don't sound so incredulous, Captain. Of course you are. We all are. A killer first, a builder second. A hunter, a warrior, and let's be honest, a murderer. That is our joint heritage, is it not?
KIRK: We're less cold-blooded about it than you are.
ANAN: What do you want, Captain?
KIRK: I want to contact my ship. Where are my communicators?
ANAN: In a safe place.
KIRK: You take a lot of chances, Councilman.
ANAN: You're worried about your ship, Captain. I'm trying to save a world.
KIRK: If I were you, I'd think about saving my life.
ANAN: Won't you have a drink, Captain?
ANAN: And then we can diskuss our differences.
KIRK: I'm not interested in diskussing our differences. You don't seem to realize the risk you're taking. We don't make war with computers and herd the casualties into suicide stations. We make the real thing, Councilman. I could destroy this planet.
ANAN: Why do you think I don't let you talk to your ship ?
KIRK: I don't need the ship for that.
ANAN: You mean, all by yourself with a disruptor, you can destroy this planet?
KIRK: That's exactly what I mean.
ANAN: I had no idea you were so formidable.
KIRK: You seem to think I'm joking. Where are the communicators?
ANAN: If I told you, Captain, would you walk right out and get them?
KIRK: Something like that.
ANAN: Very well, Captain. They're in the War Room. Go left down the corridor, left again. They are unguarded.

[Corridor]
ANAN: Is he alive? Pity. Man like that would have preferred to die fighting. Take him to the Council Room.

[Eminiar Seven]
ANAN: Ambassador Fox?
FOX: I am Robert Fox. Have I the honor of addressing Anan Seven?
ANAN: Welcome to Eminiar, Mister Ambassador.

[Corridor]
ANAN: Mister Ambassador, I am truly sorry for what must happen.
FOX: I beg your pardon?
ANAN: You and your party have been declared war casualties. You will be taken immediately to one of our casualty stations so that your deaths may be recorded.
FOX: You mean we are to be killed?
ANAN: That is correct, Mister Ambassador. I regret it very much, but there is nothing I can do about it.

[Room]
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise, come in.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Scott, it's Mister Spock.
SCOTT: Scotty here, Mister Spock. Go ahead.

[Room]
SPOCK: Is the ship all right?
SCOTT (voiceover): We've been through a bit, but we're all right now. How about the Captain and you?
SPOCK: The Captain is overdue. We've suffered no casualties among us. This is important. Under no circumstances shall any one beam down from the Enterprise. They'd be killed the moment they arrived.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: That ties it. That popinjay Fox went down a couple minutes ago.

[Room]
SPOCK: The Ambassador?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I knew it had a rotten ring to it.

[Room]
SPOCK: Orbit out to maximum phaser range and stand by for further orders. Spock out.
TAMURA: What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Find the Ambassador and the Captain. Yeoman Tamula, you stay here and prevent this young lady from immolating herself. Knock her down if necessary. This is a killing situation. Do what you must to protect yourself. Clear?
TAMURA: Yes, sir.

[Disintegration chamber]
FOX: What are you doing? I'm a representative of the United Federation of Planets! A special representative!
GUARD: Get in line.
FOX: Spock!
SPOCK: Please, Mister Fox. Ladies and gentlemen, please move quickly away from the chamber or you may be injured.
FOX: What are you doing, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Practicing a peculiar variety of diplomacy, sir.
SPOCK: I'll take you to a place of comparative safety, then I must find the Captain.
FOX: They have him. The guards told us. They took him to the Council Room under heavy guard.
SPOCK: By now, Mister Ambassador, I'm sure you realize that normal diplomatic procedures are ineffective here.
FOX: I've never been a soldier, Mister Spock, but I learn very quickly.
SPOCK: Very well, sir. We need all the help we can get.

[Council Room]
ANAN: Captain, surely you can see the position we are in. If your people do not report to our disintegration chambers, it is a violation of an agreement that dates back five hundred years.
KIRK: My people are not responsible for your agreements.
ANAN: You will be responsible for an escalation that will destroy everything. Millions of people horribly killed. Complete destruction of our culture here and yes, the culture on Vendikar. Disaster, disease, starvation, horrible, lingering death, pain and anguish!
KIRK: That seems to frighten you.
ANAN: It would frighten any sane man.
KIRK: Yes. You're quite right.
ANAN: Don't you understand, Captain? We have done away with all that. Now you are threatening to bring it down on us again. Are those five hundred people of yours more important than the hundreds of millions of innocent people on Eminiar and Vendikar? What kind of monster are you?
KIRK: I'm a barbarian. You said it yourself.
ANAN: I had hoped I'd spoken only figuratively.
KIRK: Oh, no. You were quite accurate. I plan to prove it to you.
ANAN: Open a channel to the Enterprise. You give me no choice, Captain. We are not bandits, but you force us to act as bandits.
SCOTT (voiceover): This is the USS Enterprise.
KIRK: Scotty, General Order Twenty Four. Two hours! In two hours!
ANAN: Enterprise, this is Anan Seven, First Councilman of the High Council of Eminiar.

[Bridge]
ANAN (voiceover): We hold your Captain, his party, your Ambassador and his party prisoners.

[Council Room]
ANAN: Unless you immediately start transportation of all personnel aboard your ship to the surface, the hostages will be killed. You have thirty minutes. I mean it, Captain.
KIRK: All that it means is that I won't be around for the destruction. You heard me give General Order Twenty Four. That means in two hours the Enterprise will destroy Eminiar Seven.
ANAN: Planetary defense System, open fire on the Enterprise!
SECURITY (voiceover): I'm sorry, Councilman. The target has moved out of range.
ANAN: You wouldn't do this. Hundreds of millions of people.
KIRK: I didn't start it, Councilman, but I'm liable to finish it.
SAR: Councilman, I received a message from Vendikar. Our time is nearly up. Our quota is short by several thousand. They accuse us of reneging on the treaty.
ANAN: You see? It's started.
KIRK: You're wrong. It hasn't begun.
SECURITY (voiceover): Councilman, Disintegrator station eleven has been destroyed. Guard positions in tunnels eight and ten fail to answer. Earth party reported seen in corridor 4A.
KIRK: You have less than two hours, Councilman.
ANAN: What I want or don't want has nothing to do with it. Escalation is automatic. You can stop it!
KIRK: Stop it? I'm counting on it.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Open a channel, Lieutenant. This is the commander of the USS Enterprise.

[Council Room]
SCOTT (voiceover): All cities and installlations on Eminiar Seven have been located, identified, and fed into our fire-control system. In one hour and forty five minutes

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The entire inhabited surface of your planet will be destroyed.

[Council Room]
SCOTT: You have that long to surrender your hostages.
ANAN: What can I do? Somebody, please tell me.
KIRK: Hold it! Over there. You, over there. Move, move, move.
KIRK: Now we'll talk.
SPOCK: I had assumed you needed help. I see I'm in error.
KIRK: No. I need the help. In there, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in, Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain, are you all right?
KIRK: Everything's secure here. Maintain position. If everything goes according to plan, you can beam us up in ten minutes. If you don't hear from us, carry out General Order Twenty Four on schedule.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, Captain. Is there anything else we can do?
KIRK: Cross your fingers. Kirk out. Death, destruction, disease, horror. That's what war is all about, Anan. That's what makes it a thing to be avoided. You've made it neat and painless. So neat and painless, you've had no reason to stop it. And you've had it for five hundred years. Since it seems to be the only way I can save my crew and my ship, I'm going to end it for you, one way or another. Mister Ambassador.
FOX: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Would you mind taking these people out into the corridor and holding them there.
FOX: Gentlemen, if you please.
KIRK: You. Come with me. Mister Osborne.

[War Room]
KIRK: Our communicators, weapons.
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: These are the attack computers, Captain. That one's defense, that one computes the casualties. They're all tied in with a subspace transmission unit, which keeps them in constant contact with their Vendikan counterparts.
KIRK: Yes, go on.
SPOCK: At the moment contact is broken, it abrogates the agreement between the two warring parties.
SAR: What are you going to do?
SPOCK: This one's the key. The circuit is now locked. Destroy this one, and they'll all go.
KIRK: Good. Get him out of here.
SAR: Now wait a minute. Please, please!
KIRK: Let's go.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Against the wall!
ANAN: You realize what you have done?
KIRK: Yes, I do. I've given you back the horrors of war. The Vendikans now assume that you've broken your agreement and that you're preparing to wage real war with real weapons. They'll want do the same. Only the next attack they launch will do a lot more than count up numbers in a computer. They'll destroy cities, devastate your planet. You of course will want to retaliate. If I were you, I'd start making bombs. Yes, Councilman, you have a real war on your hands. You can either wage it with real weapons, or you might consider an alternative. Put an end to it. Make peace.
ANAN: There can be no peace. Don't you see? We've admitted it to ourselves. We're a killer species. It's instinctive. It's the same with you. Your General Order Twenty Four.
KIRK: All right. It's instinctive. But the instinct can be fought. We're human beings with the blood of a million savage years on our hands, but we can stop it. We can admit that we're killers, but we're not going to kill today. That's all it takes. Knowing that we won't kill today. Contact Vendikar. I think you'll find that they're just as terrified, appallled, horrified as you are, that they'll do anything to avoid the alternative I've given you. Peace or utter destruction. It's up to you.
FOX: As a third party interested only in peace and the establishment of normal relations, I should be glad to offer my services as negotiator between you and Vendikar. I've had some small experiences in such matters.
ANAN: There may be a chance. We have a direct channel with Vendikar's High Council. It hasn't been used in centuries.
FOX: Then it's long overdue. Shall we go?
SPOCK: There's a chance it may work, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Cancel implementation of General Order Twenty Four. Alert transporter room. We're ready to beam up.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lay in a course for Argona Two, Navigator. Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Space details set, Captain.
UHURA: Message from Eminiar Seven, Captain. Ambassador Fox reports negotiations underway with Vendikar. Outlook hopeful.
KIRK: Good.
SPOCK: Captain, you took a big chance.
KIRK: Did I, Mister Spock? They've been killing three million people a year. It had been going on for five hundred years. An actual attack wouldn't have killed any more people than one of their computer attacks, but it would have ended their ability to make war. The fighting would have been over permanently.
MCCOY: But you didn't know that it would work.
KIRK: No. It was a calculated risk. Still, the Eminians keep a very orderly society, and actual war is a very messy business. A very, very messy business. I had a feeling that they would do anything to avoid it, even talk peace.
SPOCK: A feeling is not much to go on.
KIRK: Sometimes a feeling, Mister Spock, is all we humans have to go on.
SPOCK: Captain, you almost make me believe in luck.
KIRK: Why, Mister Spock, you almost make me believe in miracles.

[Bridge]
SPINELLI: Coming up on it fast, sir.
KIRK: Are you certain of your sensor readings?
SPOCK: Definitely a space vessel of some type.
KIRK: Origin?
SPOCK: Unknown. It could hardly be an Earth ship. There have been no flights into this sector for years.
UHURA: I'm picking up a signal, sir. Captain, that's the old Morse code call signal.
KIRK: Thank you.
UHURA: CQ. CQ.
KIRK: We're reading it, Lieutenant. I thought you said it couldn't possibly be an Earth vessel.
SPOCK: I fail to understand why it always gives you pleasure to see me proven wrong.
KIRK: An emotional Earth weakness of mine. There it is.
KIRK: An old Earth vessel, similar to the DY=500 class.
SPOCK: Much older. DY-100 class, to be exact. Captain, the last such vessel was built centuries ago, back in the 1990s.
KIRK: Then it's a derelict, its signal left on automatic.
SPOCK: Or an old Earth ship being used by aliens.
KIRK: Weapons status.
WEAPONS (voiceover): Deflector shields on maximum. Phasers manned, sir.
KIRK: Bioscanners report.
MCCOY (voiceover): Life science bioscanners are picking up heart beats from over there. Can't be human, though. They're too faint, and average only four beats per minute.
SPOCK: Sensor reading, Captain. Some sort of equipment functioning on that vessel.
KIRK: All decks go to full alert. (Enterprise comes alongside the smaller ship, which is still as big as the engineering hull.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3141.9. A full hour has elapsed since interception of the strange vessel. Our presence alongside is still being completely ignored. Although our sensors continue to show signs of equipment and life aboard, there has been no indication of danger to us.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Weapons department, maintain battle stations. All other decks standby alert.
UHURA: All decks acknowledging, sir.
MCCOY: We're continuing to pick up some form of heart action over there. Very faint, very slow. Seems to be coming from about sixty or seventy bodies, as near as I can tell.
KIRK: Alien bodies, Bones?
MCCOY: Could be. There's no sign of breathing or other form of respiration.
SPOCK: Hull surface is pitted with meteor scars. However, scanners make out a name. SS Botany Bay.
KIRK: Then you can check the registry.
SPOCK: No such vessel listed. Records of that period are fragmentary, however. The mid=1990s was the era of your last so-called World War.
MCCOY: The Eugenics Wars.
SPOCK: Of course. Your attempt to improve the race through selective breeding.
MCCOY: Now, wait a minute. Not our attempt, Mister Spock. A group of ambitious scientists. I'm sure you know the type. Devoted to logic, completely unemotional
KIRK: All right, all right, gentlemen. As you were. Rig for tractor beam, Helm. Lock onto that vessel.
SPINELLI: Rigging for tractor beam, sir.
KIRK: The Bridge is yours, Mister Spock. Care to join the landing party, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, if you're actually giving me a choice
KIRK: I'm not. Oh, I'll need somebody familiar with the late 20th-Century Earth. Here's a chance for that historian to do something for a change. What's her name? McIvers?
SPOCK: Lieutenant McGivers.

[McGiver's quarters]
SPOCK (voiceover): Attention. The following personnel report to transporter room. Engineering Officer Scott, Lieutenant McGivers. Acknowledge.
MARLA: McGivers. On my way.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Well, it looks like that ship was expecting us. We read heat coming on, complete oxygen atmosphere.
KIRK: Very interesting. You ready, Bones?
MCCOY: No. I signed aboard this ship to practice medicine, not to have my atoms scattered back and forth across space by this gadget.
KIRK: You're an old-fashioned boy, McCoy. Where's that historian? Come on, Lieutenant
MARLA: McGivers, sir.
KIRK: Energize.

[SS Botany Bay]
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: Definitely Earth-type mechanism, sir. Twentieth century vessel. Old type atomic power. Bulky, solid. I think they used to call them transistor units. I'd love to tear this baby apart.
MARLA: Captain, it's a sleeper ship.
KIRK: Suspended animation.
MARLA: I've seen old photographs of this. Necessary because of the time involved in space travel until about the year 2018. It took years just to travel from one planet to another.
KIRK: Is it possible they're still alive after centuries of travel?
MCCOY: It's theoretically possible. I've never heard of it being tested for this long a period.
MARLA: What a handsome group of people.
MCCOY: Jim, I have a new reading. The lights must have triggered some mechanism.
MARLA: Captain, look here.
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: Beats me what's happening.
MCCOY: We've triggered something, all right. His heart beat's increasing. Now passing eight beats per minute. There are some signs of respiration beginning.
SCOTT: This one was probably programd to be triggered first.
KIRK: Could he be the leader? The leader. Lieutenant?
MARLA: Yes, sir. The leader was often set to revive first. This would allow him to decide whether the conditions warranted revival of the others.
MCCOY: Heart beat now approaching forty per minute. The respiration pattern is firming up.
MARLA: From the northern India area, I'd guess. Probably a Sikh. They were the most fantastic warriors.
MCCOY: Heart beat now fifty two and increasing.
KIRK: The others?
SCOTT: There's no change, and they're mixed types. Western, mid-European, Latin, Oriental.
MARLA: A man from the twentieth century coming alive.
MCCOY: Maybe. Heart beat dropping.
KIRK: Circuit shorting.
SCOTT: Probably some dust.
MCCOY: Heartbeat now thirty, dropping fast. It's a heart flutter. He's dying.
MARLA: Do something, Captain.
KIRK: Can we?
SCOTT: It'd take an hour to figure it out.
KIRK: What happens if we get him out of there?
MCCOY: He'll die in seconds if we don't.
KHAN: How long?
KIRK: How long have you been sleeping? Two centuries we estimate. Landing party to Enterprise. Come in.
UHURA: Go ahead, boarding party. We read you.
KIRK: Lock in on McCoy's beam. He's transporting back with a casualty we diskovered here.
MARLA: Magnificent.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Alongside the SS Botany Bay for ten hours now. A boarding party of engineering and medical specialists are now completing their examination of the mysterious vessel. Attempts to revive other sleepers await our success or failure with the casualty already beamed over. Doctor McCoy is frankly amazed at his physical and recuperative power.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk to boarding party.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
KIRK: Scotty, any records, log books of any kind?

[SS Botany Bay]
SCOTT: Negative, Captain. It appears they were in suspended animation when the ship took off.
KIRK: How many alive?
SCOTT (voiceover): Twelve units have malfunctioned, leaving seventy two still operating. Thirty of those are women.
KIRK: Kirk out. Seventy two alive. A group of people dating back to the 1990s. A diskovery of some importance, Mister Spock. There are a great many unanswered questions about those years.
SPOCK: A strange, violent period in your history. I find no record what so ever of an SS Botany Bay. Captain, the DY-100 class vessel was designed for interplanetary travel only. With simple nuclear-powered engines, star travel was considered impractical at that time. It was ten thousand to one against their making it to another star system. And why no record of the trip?
KIRK: Botany Bay. That was the name of a penal colony on shores of Australia, wasn't it? If they took that name for their vessel
SPOCK: If you're suggesting this was a penal deportation vessel, you've arrived at a totally illogical conclusion.
KIRK: Oh?
SPOCK: Your Earth was on the verge of a dark ages. Whole populations were being bombed out of existence. A group of criminals could have been dealt with far more efficiently than wasting one of their most advanced spaceships.
KIRK: Yes. So much for my theory. I'm still waiting to hear yours.
SPOCK: Even a theory requires some facts, Captain. So far I have none.
KIRK: And that irritates you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Irritation?
KIRK: Yeah.
SPOCK: I am not capable of that emotion.
KIRK: My apologies, Mister Spock. You suspect some danger in them?
SPOCK: Insufficient facts always invites danger, Captain.
KIRK: Well, we'd better get some facts. Rig for towing.
SPINELLI: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Make course for Starbase Twelve.
SPOCK: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay - medical ward]
MCCOY: That'll be all.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: He'll live.
KIRK: My compliments.
MCCOY: No, I'm good, but not that good. There's something inside this man that refuses to accept death. Look at that. Even as he is now, his heart valve action has twice the power of yours and mine. Lung efficiency is fifty percent better.
KIRK: An improved breed of human. That's what the Eugenics War was all about.
MCCOY: I'd estimate he could lift us both with one arm. It will be interesting to see if his brain matches his body.
MARLA: Doctor, will he live?
MCCOY: It appears he will, Lieutenant.
KIRK: I'd like to talk to you.
KIRK: If I were to rate your performance as a member of the landing party today I
MARLA: I know, sir. I'm sorry.
KIRK: Lieutenant, at any one time, the safety of this entire vessel might depend upon the performance of a single crewman, and the fact that you find a man strangely compelling to you personally
MARLA: Not personally, Captain. Professionally. My profession is historian, and when I find a specimen from the past alive, I'm in the sheer delight of examining his mind.
KIRK: And men were more adventuresome then. Bolder, more colorful.
MARLA: Yes, sir, I think they were.
KIRK: Good. If I can have honesty, it's easier to overlook mistakes. That's all.
MARLA: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: A pity you wasted your life on command, Jim. You'd have made a fair psychologist.
KIRK: Fair?
MCCOY: Sickbay to lab. Anything new on those bios?
LAB TECH (voiceover): They all came out fine, Doctor.
MCCOY: Good. McCoy out.
MCCOY: Well, either choke me or cut my throat. Make up your mind.
KHAN: English. I thought I dreamed hearing it. Where am I?
MCCOY: You're in You're in bed, holding a knife at your doctor's throat.
KHAN: Answer my question.
MCCOY: It would be most effective if you would cut the carotid artery, just under the left ear.
KHAN: I like a brave man.
MCCOY: I was simply trying to avoid an argument. You're aboard the United Spaceship Enterprise. Your vessel is in tow.
KHAN: I remember a voice. Did I hear it say I had been sleeping for two centuries?
MCCOY: That is correct.
KHAN: Where is your Captain? I have many questions.
KIRK (voiceover): Bridge.
MCCOY: I have a patient here with many questions, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): On my way.
KIRK: James Kirk, commanding the starship Enterprise.
KHAN: I see.
KIRK: And your name?
KHAN: I have a few questions first. What is your heading?
KIRK: Our heading is Starbase Twelve, a planet in the Gamma 400 star system. Our command base in this sector. Is that of any use to you?
KHAN: And my people?
KIRK: Seventy two of your life-support canisters are still functioning.
KHAN: You will revive them.
KIRK: As soon as we reach Starbase Twelve.
KHAN: I see.
KIRK: And now
KHAN: Khan is my name.
KIRK: Khan. Nothing else?
KHAN: Khan.
KIRK: What was the exact date of your lift off? We know it was sometime in the early 1990s, but
KHAN: I find myself growing fatigued, Doctor. May we continue this questioning at some other time?
KIRK: The facts I need, Mister Khan, will take very little time. For example, the nature of your expedition.
MCCOY: Jim. A little later might be better.
KHAN: Captain, I wonder if I could have something to read during my convalescence. I was once an engineer of sorts. I would be most interested in studying the technical manuals on your vessel.
KIRK: Yes, I understand. You have two hundred years of catching up to do.
KHAN: Precisely.
KIRK: They're available to any patient on the viewing screen. Doctor McCoy will show you how to tie into the library tapes.
KHAN: Thank you, Captain. You are very co-operative.

[Bridge]
KIRK: This Khan is not what I expected of a twentieth century man.
SPOCK: I note he's making considerable use of our technical library.
KIRK: Common courtesy, Mister Spock. He'll spend the rest of his days in our time. It's only decent to help him catch up. Would you estimate him to be a product of selective breeding?
SPOCK: There is that possibility, Captain. His age would be correct. In 1993, a group of these young supermen did seize power simultaneously in over forty nations.
KIRK: Well, they were hardly supermen. They were aggressive, arrogant. They began to battle among themselves.
SPOCK: Because the scientists overlooked one fact. Superior ability breeds superior ambition.
KIRK: Interesting, if true. They created a group of Alexanders, Napoleons.
SPOCK: I have collected some names and made some counts. By my estimate, there were some eighty or ninety of these young supermen unaccounted for when they were finally defeated.
KIRK: That fact isn't in the history texts.
SPOCK: Would you reveal to war-weary populations that some eighty Napoleons might still be alive?

[Sickbay - medical ward]
MARLA: Ship's historian, Lieutenant
KHAN: Marla McGivers.
MARLA: Yes.
KHAN: I am told you participated in my rebirth.
MARLA: In a small way.
KHAN: I've been reading up on starships, but they have one luxury not mentioned in the manuals.
MARLA: I don't understand.
KHAN: A beautiful woman. My name is Khan. Please sit and entertain me.
MARLA: I'd like some historical information about your ship, its purpose and
KHAN: And why do you wear your hair in such an uncomplimentary fashion?
MARLA: It's comfortable.
KHAN: But it's not attractive. There. Soft. Natural. Simple.
MARLA: Mister Khan, I'm here on business.
KHAN: You find no pleasure here?
MARLA: My interest is scientific. Men of. That is, the world of the past. I'm sure you understand to actually talk to a man of your century
KHAN: There. Simple, soft. Please remember.
MARLA: Perhaps some other time, when you feel more like talking about the past.
KHAN: I'm glad you came. Please do it again.

[Officer's Mess]
MCCOY: Very impressive. Are we expecting a fleet admiral for dinner?
KIRK: Lieutenant McGivers' idea to welcome Khan to our century. Just how strongly is she attracted to him?
MCCOY: Well, there aren't any regulations against romance, Jim.
KIRK: My curiosity's official, not personal, Bones.
MCCOY: Well, he has a magnetism. Almost electric. You felt it. And it could over power McGivers with her preoccupation with the past.

[McGiver's quarters]
KHAN: Thank you. I hoped you might guide me to our dinner engagement. Very good. Fine technique.
MARLA: It's a gladiator named Flavius. He once
KHAN: And you've rearranged your hair for me. Excellent.
KHAN: All bold men from the past. Richard, Leif Ericson, Napoleon. A hobby of yours, such men?
KHAN: I am honored. Thank you. But I caution you. Such men dare take what they want.

[Officer's mess]
KIRK: Forgive my curiosity, Mister Khan, but my officers are anxious to know more about your extraordinary journey.
SPOCK: And how you managed to keep it out of the history books.
KHAN: Adventure, Captain. Adventure. There was little else left on Earth.
SPOCK: There was the war to end tyranny. Many considered that a noble effort.
KHAN: Tyranny, sir? Or an attempt to unify humanity?
SPOCK: Unify, sir? Like a team of animals under one whip?
KHAN: I know something of those years. Remember, it was a time of great dreams, of great aspiration.
SPOCK: Under dozens of petty dictatorships.
KHAN: One man would have ruled eventually. As Rome under Caesar. Think of its accomplishments.
SPOCK: Then your sympathies were with
KHAN: You are an excellent tactician, Captain. You let your second in command attack while you sit and watch for weakness.
KIRK: You have a tendency to express ideas in military terms, Mister Khan. This is a social occasion.
KHAN: It has been said that social occasions are only warfare concealed. Many prefer it more honest, more open.
KIRK: You fled. Why? Were you afraid?
KHAN: I've never been afraid.
KIRK: But you left at the very time mankind needed courage.
KHAN: We offered the world order!
KIRK: We?
KHAN: Excellent. Excellent. But if you will excuse me, gentlemen and ladies, I grow fatigued again. With your permission, Captain, I will return to my quarters.

[Khan's quarters]
MARLA: I wanted to apologize. They had no right to treat you that way.
KHAN: Quite understandable, since I'm something of a mystery to them.
MARLA: You're no mystery to me. I know exactly who you are.
KHAN: Do you?
MARLA: Leif Ericson, Richard the Lion Heart, Napoleon. I don't know if you're going to like living in our time.
KHAN: Then I'll have to remold it to my liking.
MARLA: Please don't.
KHAN: Go. Or stay. But do it because it is what you wish to do. Well?
MARLA: I'll stay a little longer.
KHAN: How many minutes do you graciously offer?
MARLA: I only meant
KHAN: This grows tiresome. You must now ask to stay.
MARLA: I'd like to stay. Please.
KHAN: Open your heart. Will you open your heart?
MARLA: Yes.
KHAN: I intend to take this ship. Do you agree?
MARLA: Oh, please don't ask me
KHAN: I need your help.
MARLA: You won't harm anyone?
KHAN: Now you question me?
MARLA: No.
KHAN: Will you assist me?
MARLA: Oh, please, Khan, don't ask me
KHAN: Leave me then. Go, I say.
MARLA: No. I promise. I'll do anything you ask.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Name, Khan, as we know him today. Name, Khan Noonien Singh.
SPOCK: From 1992 through 1996, absolute ruler of more than a quarter of your world. From Asia through the Middle East.
MCCOY: The last of the tyrants to be overthrown.
SCOTT: I must confess, gentlemen. I've always held a sneaking admiration for this one.
KIRK: He was the best of the tyrants and the most dangerous. They were supermen, in a sense. Stronger, braver, certainly more ambitious, more daring.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, this romanticism about a ruthless dictator is
KIRK: Mister Spock, we humans have a streak of barbarism in us. Appallling, but there, nevertheless.
SCOTT: There were no massacres under his rule.
SPOCK: And as little freedom.
MCCOY: No wars until he was attacked.
SPOCK: Gentlemen.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you misunderstand us. We can be against him and admire him all at the same time.
SPOCK: Illogical.
KIRK: Totally. This is the Captain. Put a twenty four hour security on Mister Khan's quarters, effective immediately.

[Khan's quarters]
KHAN: I'm sorry, Captain. I was lost in thought. My door. Locked from outside, a guard posted.
KIRK: Unusual treatment for Khan Noonien Singh.
KHAN: Excellent. You identified me with your computer system, I imagine.
KIRK: I'd like those answers now. First, the purpose of your star flight.
KHAN: A new life, a chance to build a world. Other things I doubt you would understand.
KIRK: Why? Because I'm not a product of controlled genetics?
KHAN: Captain, although your abilities intrigue me, you are quite honestly inferior. Mentally, physically. In fact, I am surprised how little improvement there has been in human evolution. Oh, there has been technical advancement, but, how little man himself has changed. Yes, it appears we will do well in your century, Captain. Do you have any other questions?
KIRK: Thank you. They've all been answered.

[Transporter room]
MARLA: Move away.

[SS Botany Bay]
KHAN: Otto. Joaquin. The trip is over. The battle begins again. Only this time it's not a world we win. It's a universe. Kati.

[Bridge]
SPINELLI: On course, sir. Warp factor two.
KIRK: Maintain. Bridge.
SECURITY (voiceover): Captain, Security here. Khan's escaped.
KIRK: Sound security alert.
UHURA: Security alert, Captain. Communication channels are down, Captain.
SPOCK: Turbo elevators inoperative. Jammed, Captain.
KIRK: Atmospheric controls cut off.
SPOCK: Useless. They're on override in Engineering.
KIRK: Engineering. Scotty. This is the Bridge.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain!

[Bridge]
KIRK: What's going on down there?

[Engineering]
KHAN: He's not able to answer you at the moment, Captain.

[Bridge]
KHAN (voiceover): Your ship is mine. I have shut off the life-support system to your Bridge, and jammed up your exit routes. I am willing to negotiate.
KIRK: Flood all decks with neural gas.
SPOCK: Impossible. Intruder control systems inoperative. Mister Khan was very thorough in his study of our tech manuals.
KIRK: Contact Starbase Twelve.
UHURA: All channels are totally jammed, Captain.
SPOCK: Brilliant. Every contingency anticipated.
KHAN (voiceover): Your air should be getting quite thin by now.

[Engineering]
KHAN: Do you surrender the Bridge?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Negative.

[Engineering]
KHAN: Academic, Captain. Refuse,

[Bridge]
KHAN (voiceover): And every person on the Bridge will suffocate. Stardate 3142.8. They have my ship, diskarding their own worthless vessel. Only moments of air left on the Bridge now. Commendations recommended for Lieutenant Uhura, Technicians First Class Thule and Harrison, Lieutenant Spinelli and, of course, Mister Spock. I take full responsibility. I take full

[Briefing room]
KHAN: Nothing ever changes, except man. Your technical accomplishments? Improve a mechanical device and you may double productivity. But improve man and you gain a thousand fold. I am such a man. Join me. I'll treat you well. I need your training to operate a vessel this complex.
SCOTT: Where is Captain Kirk?
KHAN: I see now I made one serious error. You are the Communications Officer? Engage the viewing screen, please.
MARLA: No!
KHAN: I should have realized that suffocating together on the Bridge would create heroic camaraderie among you. But it is quite a different thing to watch it happening to someone else. Engage the viewing screen. I'm sure you recognize your medical decompression chamber here, Doctor. And the meaning of that indicator. Your Captain will die. If you join me, Mister Spock, I will save his life. My vessel was useless. I need you and yours to select a colony planet. One with a population willing to be led by us.
MCCOY: To be conquered by you. A starship would make that most simple, wouldn't it?
KHAN: Each of you in turn will go in there. Die while the others watch.
MARLA: Khan. There's no reason I must watch this, is there?
KHAN: But I hoped you would be stronger. If any one of you joins me, anyone! I'll let him live. It's so useless!
JOACHIM: We've lost the channel. How do I regain picture?
KHAN: It does not matter. The Captain is dead. Take Mister Spock next.

[Decompression chamber]
MARLA: Khan said to watch him very closely. He may decide to co-operate.
MARLA: Captain, I saved your life. Now please don't kill him.
SPOCK: Surprised to see you, Captain, though pleased.
KIRK: I'm a little pleased myself. Situation?
SPOCK: Khan is holding our staff in the briefing room. His men have control of the ship.
KIRK: Our only chance is the intruder control circuit. Although he's cut it off at the Bridge.
SPOCK: There's a relay junction down the corridor.
KIRK: Gas all decks but this one.

[Briefing room]
KHAN: Armory, this is Khan. Report. Rodriguez. Ling. McPherson. Anyone. Report status.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Where's Khan?
SCOTT: I don't know. He got out just as the gas
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Anesthesia gas in all sections except Engineering. Someone just closed that line.

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, acknowledge. Unable to flood Engineering section. I suspect
SCOTT (voiceover): This is Scott. Captain's headed for the Engineering section. I'll follow in case
SPOCK (voiceover): Negative. We must retake the vessel while the anesthesia lasts. Meet me in the Armory. I'm blowing it clear first. Spock out.
KHAN: If I understood your manuals, that's an overload in progress. Your ship flares up like an exploding sun within minutes.
KHAN: I have five times your strength. You're no match for me. Captain's Log. Stardate 3143.3. Control of the Enterprise has been regained. I wish my next decisions were no more difficult. Khan and his people. What a waste to put them in a reorientation center. And what do I do about McGivers?

[Briefing room]
UHURA: Record tapes engaged and ready, Captain.
KIRK: This hearing is now in session. Under the authority vested in me by Starfleet Command, I declare all charges and specifications in this matter have been dropped.
MCCOY: Jim. Agreed you have the authority
KIRK: Mister Spock, our heading takes us near the Ceti Alpha star system.
SPOCK: Quite correct, Captain. Planet number five there is habitable, although a bit savage, somewhat inhospitable.
KIRK: But no more than Australia's Botany Bay colony was at the beginning. Those men went on to tame a continent, Mister Khan. Can you tame a world?
KHAN: Have you ever read Milton, Captain?
KIRK: Yes. I understand. Lieutenant Marla McGivers. Given a choice of court martial or accompanying them there.
KHAN: It will be difficult. A struggle at first even to stay alive, to find food.
MARLA: I'll go with him, sir.
KHAN: A superior woman. I will take her. And I've gotten something else I wanted. A world to win, an empire to build.
KIRK: This hearing is closed.
SCOTT: It's a shame for a good Scotsman to admit it, but I'm not up on Milton.
KIRK: The statement Lucifer made when he fell into the pit. 'It is better to rule in hell than serve in heaven.'
SPOCK: It would be interesting, Captain, to return to that world in a hundred years and to learn what crop has sprung from the seed you planted today.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, it would indeed.

[Bridge]
PAINTER: Approaching Omicron Ceti Three, sir.
KIRK: Standard orbit, Mister Painter.
PAINTER: Yes, sir.
UHURA: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Lieutenant.
UHURA: I've been transmitting a contact signal every five minutes. All I get is dead air. Shall I continue?
KIRK: Maintain transmission pattern until we've established orbit.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, there were one hundred and fifty men, women, and children in that colony. What are the chances of survivors?
SPOCK: Absolutely none, Captain. Berthold rays are such a recent diskovery. We do not yet have full knowledge of their nature. It is known, however, that living animal tissue disintegrates under exposure. Sandoval's group could not have survived after three years.
KIRK: Are you saying that those people built a future in a place knowing they might not survive?
SPOCK: I am saying they knew there was a risk.
KIRK: And what about us? Can we afford to send people to the planet's surface?
SPOCK: The breakdown of tissue does not develop immediately. We can risk a limited exposure.
PAINTER: We've established orbit, sir, and I've pinpointed a settlement.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Painter. Mister Spock, equip a landing party of five to accompany me to the planet's surface. Include Doctor McCoy and a biologist. I'll want them in ten minutes.

[Farm yard]
KIRK: Another dream that failed. There's nothing sadder. It took these people a year to make the trip from Earth. They came all that way and died.
ELIAS: Hardly that, sir. Welcome to Omicron Ceti Three. I'm Elias Sandoval.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3417.3. We thought our mission to Omicron Ceti Three would be an unhappy one. We had expected to find no survivors of the agricultural colony there. Apparently, our information was incorrect.

[Farm yard]
ELIAS: We haven't seen anyone outside our group for four years since we left Earth. We've been expecting someone for some time. Our subspace radio didn't work properly, and I'm afraid we didn't have anyone who could master its intricacies.
KIRK: Actually, Mister Sandoval, we didn't come here because of your silent radio.
ELIAS: It makes little difference, Captain. You're here. We're happy to see you. Come, let me show you our settlement.
MCCOY: On pure speculation, just an educated guess, I'd say that man is alive.
SPOCK: Captain, this planet is being bombarded by Berthold rays, as our reports indicated. At this intensity, we'll be safe for a week if necessary. But
KIRK: But these people shouldn't be alive.
SULU: Is it possible that they're not?
MCCOY: You shook hands with him, Jim. His flesh was warm. He's alive. There's no doubt about that.
SPOCK: There's also no question of the fact that Berthold rays are incontrovertibly deadly. There's no miracle connected with it, Doctor, you know that. No cures, no serums, no antidotes. If a man is exposed long enough, he dies.
KIRK: Gentlemen, we're debating in a vacuum. Let's go get some answers.

[Farmhouse]
ELIAS: There are two other settlements, but we have forty five colonists here.
KIRK: What was the reason for the dispersal?
ELIAS: We felt three groups would have better potential. If disease were to strike one group, the others would be less likely to be affected. You see, Omicron is an ideal agricultural planet. We determined not to suffer the fate of expeditions that went before us.
LEILA: Elias.
ELIAS: Leila, come meet our guests. This is Leila Kalomi, our botanist. This is Captain Kirk, Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock.
LEILA: Mister Spock and I have met before. It's been a long time.
KIRK: Mister Sandoval, we do have a mission here. Examinations, tests.
ELIAS: By all means, make them. I think you'll find our settlement an interesting one. Our philosophy is a simple one, that men should return to a less complicated life. We have few mechanical things here. No vehicles, no weapons. We have harmony here. Complete peace.
KIRK: We'll try not to interfere with your work.
ELIAS: Make yourselves at home, gentlemen.

[Outside, by the barn]
KELOWITZ: What exactly are we looking for anyway, sir?
SULU: Whatever doesn't look right, whatever that is. When it comes to farms, I wouldn't know what looked right or wrong if it were two feet from me.
KELOWITZ: Hey.
SULU: What is it?
KELOWITZ: No cows. This barn isn't even built for them, Just for storage.
SULU: Come to think of it, we haven't seen any animals. No horses, no pigs, not even a dog. Nothing.

[Farmhouse]
ELIAS: You've known the Vulcanian?
LEILA: On Earth, six years ago.
ELIAS: Did you love him?
LEILA: If I did, it was important only to myself.
ELIAS: How did he feel?
LEILA: Mister Spock's feelings were never expressed to me. It is said he has none to give.
ELIAS: Would you like him to stay with us now, to be as one of us?
LEILA: There is no choice, Elias. He will stay.

[Drawing room]
MCCOY: That'll be all. Thank you very much.
KIRK: Anything?
MCCOY: I've examined nine men so far, varying in ages from twenty three to fifty nine. They're all in perfect condition. Text book responses. Heart, lungs, excellent. Co-ordination, excellent. Reflexes, excellent. If there are many more of them, I could throw away my shingle.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Pasture]
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain. There seems to be a total absence of life on the planet, with the exception of the colonists and various types of flora.
KIRK (voiceover): Sulu had the same observation. Any explanations?
SPOCK: Not at the moment, sir. I am conducting various tests with the tricorder, but results are inconclusive.

[Drawing room]
KIRK: Very well. Continue investigations. Kirk out.
MCCOY: No animals. That's peculiar.
KIRK: Yes, especially in view of the fact that the records for this expedition indicate that they did have some for breeding and food purposes. Apparently, none of them survived.
MCCOY: I'd like to see the medical records on the expedition.
KIRK: Yes, I thought you might.
ELIAS: Captain, I've been looking for you. You haven't seen our fields and crops. I'd like to show you and the Doctor what we've accomplished here.
MCCOY: I'm afraid I'll have to bow out. I have to continue with these medical examinations. However, if I find everyone else's health to be as perfect as yours, I
KIRK: He promised to throw away his shingle.
ELIAS: You'll find no weaklings here. Captain.

[Field]
ELIAS: This is the reason, Captain. This soil will grow anything we plant in it. It's a perfect world. We have a moderate climate, moderate rains all year round. It gives us all we need. It is perfect.
LESLIE: Pardon me, Captain. Biology report ready, sir.
ELIAS: I have work to attend to myself, Captain.
KIRK: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
LESLIE: I heard Sandoval saying they could grow anything here. That's true, sir. They've got a variety of crops in. Grains, potatoes, beans.
KIRK: Make your point.
LESLIE: Well, sir, for an agricultural colony, they have actually very little acreage planted. There's enough to sustain the colony, but very little more.
KIRK: It's like a jigsaw puzzle all one color. No key to where the pieces fit in. Why?
KIRK: Kirk here.
MCCOY: This is McCoy, Jim. I think you'd better get back here.
KIRK: Trouble?
MCCOY: No, but I'd like you to see this for yourself.
KIRK: On my way.

[Farmhouse]
MCCOY: Sandoval's medical record, four years ago when the expedition left Earth. He registered scar tissue on his lungs from lobar pneumonia suffered when he was a child. No major operations, but there was an appendectomy. Received all required inoculations, et cetera.
KIRK: What's so strange about that?
MCCOY: Nothing, but I examined that man no more than two hours ago. You know what his readings were? Perfect, perfect, and perfect. Just like everyone else I've examined here.
KIRK: Instrument malfunction?
MCCOY: No. I thought of that and tested it on myself. It accurately recorded my lack of tonsils and those two broken ribs I had once. It did not record the scar tissue on Sandoval's lungs, but it did record a healthy appendix where one was supposedly removed.

[Field]
SPOCK: Nothing. Not even insects. Yet your plants grow, and you've survived exposure to Berthold rays.
LEILA: That can be explained.
SPOCK: Please do.
LEILA: Later.
SPOCK: I have never understood the female capacity to avoid a direct answer to any question.
LEILA: And I never understood you. Until now. There was always a place in here where no one could come. There was only the face you allow people to see. Only one side you'd allow them to know.
SPOCK: I would like to know how your people have managed to survive here.
LEILA: I missed you.
SPOCK: Logically, you should all be dead.
LEILA: If I tell you how we survived, will you try to understand how we feel about our life here? About each other?
SPOCK: Emotions are alien to me. I'm a scientist.
LEILA: Someone else might believe that. Your shipmates, your Captain, but not me. Come.

[Drawing Room]
KIRK: Mister Sandoval, within the hour I've received orders from Starfleet Command to evacuate all personnel from this colony. Naturally, you'll inform your people to begin preparations. We will have accommodations for you aboard the Enterprise.
ELIAS: No.
KIRK: It's not an arbitrary decision on my part. I have my orders.
ELIAS: Captain, it's entirely unnecessary. We're in no danger here.
MCCOY: We've explained the Berthold rays to you and their effect. Can't you understand?
ELIAS: Doctor, how can I make you understand? Your own instruments have shown that we're all in perfect health. We've had no deaths here.
KIRK: What about your animals?
ELIAS: We're vegetarians.
KIRK: That doesn't answer my question, sir. Why did all your animals die?
ELIAS: Captain, you stress very unimportant matters. We will not leave.

[Pasture]
LEILA: It's not much further.
SPOCK: You've not yet explained the nature of this thing.
LEILA: Its basic properties and elements are not important. What is important is it gives life, peace, love.
SPOCK: What you're describing was once known in the vernacular as a happiness pill. And you, as a scientist, should know that that's not possible.
LEILA: Come. I was one of the first to find them. The spores.
SPOCK: Spores?
SPOCK: No.
LEILA: It shouldn't hurt.
SPOCK: No, I can't. Please, don't!
LEILA: Not like this. It didn't hurt us.
SPOCK: I am not like you.
LEILA: Now. Now, you belong to all of us and we to you. There's no need to hide your inner face any longer. We understand.
SPOCK: I love you. I can love you.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have been ordered by Starfleet Command to evacuate the colony on Omicron Three. However, the colony leader, Elias Sandoval, has refused all co-operation and will not listen to any arguments.

[Farmyard]
KIRK: Sandoval.
ELIAS: Captain, your arguments are very valid, but they do not apply to us.
KIRK: You're being unreasonable.
ELIAS: Well, nevertheless. Excuse me.
KIRK: Excuse me. My orders are to remove all the colonists. That's exactly what I intend to do, with or without your help. ELIAS; Without, I should think.
MCCOY: Would you like to use a butterfly net on him, Captain?
KIRK: No, I think we'll use a
SULU: Captain, we've checked out everything. It all seems normal, except for the absence of any animals.
KIRK: We have orders to evacuate all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven. I want landing parties to co-ordinate the colonists and prepare them for transport up to the ship. We'll need extra accommodations aboard. Where's Mister Spock and Mister DeSalle?
SULU: We haven't seen them since we began our check.
MCCOY: DeSalle said he was going to examine some native plants he found. Did Spock call in at all?
KIRK: No, he didn't. Spock? See to the landing parties, would you, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Spock?

[Pasture]
SPOCK: That one looks like a dragon. You see the tail and the dorsal spines?
LEILA: I've never seen a dragon.
SPOCK: I have. On Berengaria Seven. But I've never stopped to look at clouds before. Or rainbows. You know, I can tell you exactly why one appears in the sky, but considering its beauty has always been out of the question.
LEILA: Not here.
KIRK (voiceover): Spock!
SPOCK: Yes, what did you want?

[Farmyard]
KIRK: Spock, is that you?

[Pasture]
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. What did you want?
KIRK (voiceover): Where are you?
SPOCK: I don't believe I want to tell you.

[Farmyard]
KIRK: Spock, I don't know what you think you're doing, but this is an order. Report back to me at the settlement in ten minutes. We're evacuating all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven.

[Pasture]
SPOCK: No, I don't think so.

[Farmyard]
KIRK: You don't think so, what?

[Pasture]
SPOCK: I don't think so, sir.

[Farmyard]
KIRK: Spock, report to me immediately.

[Pasture]
KIRK (voiceover): Spock? Acknowledge.

[Farmyard]
KIRK: Spock. The frequency is open, but he doesn't answer.
MCCOY: That didn't sound at all like Spock, Jim.
KIRK: No. I thought you said you might like him if he mellowed a little.
MCCOY: I didn't say that.
KIRK: You said that.
MCCOY: Not exactly. He might be in trouble.
KIRK: Yes, take over the landing party detail and start getting those colonists aboard.
MCCOY: How will you find Spock?
KIRK: The frequency is open. It'll act as a homing device. Contact DeSalle. Have him meet you here. Make sure the landing party work in teams of two. I don't want anybody left alone down here.

[Pasture]
KIRK: Spock. Mister Spock.

[Beam-down point]
MCCOY: What are you doing with those things, DeSalle?
DESALLE: I want you to take a close look at these, Doc. They're very interesting.

[Pasture]
KIRK: Mister Spock. Are you out of your mind? You were told to report to me at once.
SPOCK: I didn't want to, Jim.
KIRK: You? Yes, I can see that. Miss Kalomi, you'll have to come back to the settlement and prepare to transport up to the ship.
SPOCK: There'll be no evacuation, Jim, but perhaps we should go back and get you straightened out.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, Mister Spock is under arrest, and he's in your custody until we get back to the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Very well. Come with me.
KIRK: What's?
SPOCK: Mister Sulu understands, don't you, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Yes, I see now. Of course we can't remove the colony. It'd be wrong.
KIRK: I don't know what these plants are or how they work, but you're all going back to the settlement with me, and those colonists are going aboard the ship.
SPOCK: I can see the Captain is going to be difficult.

[Another pasture]
MCCOY: Ready to beam up. Hiya, Jimmy boy! Hey, I've taken care of everything. All y'all gotta do is relax. Doctor's orders.
KIRK: How many of those did you beam up?
MCCOY: Oh, must be nigh onto a hundred by now.
CHIEF (voiceover): Hey, Doc, I'm ready to energize. Everything okay with those plants?
KIRK: This is the Captain. Beam me up.
CHIEF (voiceover): Well, sure, if you want.
KIRK: I most certainly do. Energize.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant, put me through to Admiral Komack at Starfleet.
UHURA: Oh, I'm sorry, Captain. I can't do that.
KIRK: What do you mean, you can't do that. Follow standard procedure. That's an order.
UHURA: Oh, I know it is, Captain, but you see, all communications are out.
KIRK: Out?
UHURA: I short-circuited them, except ship to surface. We'll need that for a while. It's really for the best, Captain.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Get back to your stations. Get back to your stations.
CREWMAN: I'm sorry, sir. We're all transporting down to join the colony.
KIRK: I said get back to your station.
CREWMAN: No, sir.
KIRK: This is mutiny, mister.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir. It is.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3417.5. The pod plants have spread spores throughout the ship, carried by the ventilation system. Under their influence, my crew is deserting to join the Omicron colony, and I can't stop them. I don't know why I have not been infected, nor can I get Doctor McCoy to explain the physical-psychological aspects of the infection.

[Pasture]
MCCOY: I'm not interested in any physical-psychological aspects, Jim boy. We all perfectly healthy down here.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I've heard that word a lot lately. Perfect. Everything's perfect.
MCCOY (voiceover): Yeah. That's right. That's just what it is.
KIRK: I'll bet you've even grown your tonsils back.

[Pasture]
MCCOY: Sho'nuf. Hey, Jim boy, y'all ever have a real cold Georgia-style mint julep, huh?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Look, Bones, I need your help. Can you run tests, blood samples, anything at all to give us a lead on what these things are, how to counteract them?

[Pasture]
MCCOY: Who wants to counteract paradise, Jim boy?

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy out.
KIRK: Bones. Bones.

[Farmhouse]
SPOCK: Almost the entire ship's complement has beamed down.
ELIAS: I'm very pleased. The entire landing operation is proceeding quite well.
KIRK: Where's McCoy?
SPOCK: He went off to create something called a mint julep. That's a drink, Jim.
ELIAS: Captain, why don't you join us?
KIRK: In your own private paradise.
ELIAS: The spores have made it that.
KIRK: Where did they originate?
SPOCK: It's impossible to say. They drifted through space until they finally landed here. You see, they actually thrive on Berthold rays. The plants act as a repository for thousands of microscopic spores until they find a human body to inhabit.
ELIAS: In return, they give you complete health and peace of mind.
KIRK: That's paradise?
ELIAS: We have no need or want, Captain.
SPOCK: It's a true Eden, Jim. There's belonging and love.
KIRK: No wants. No needs. We weren't meant for that. None of us. Man stagnates if he has no ambition, no desire to be more than he is.
ELIAS: We have what we need.
KIRK: Except a challenge.
SPOCK: You don't understand, Jim, but you'll come around sooner or later. Join us. Please.
KIRK: I'm going back to the ship.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Engineering? Scotty? Biochemistry lab? Security? Is there anyone on board? This is the Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3417.7. Except for myself, all crew personnel have transported to the surface of the planet. Mutinied. Lieutenant Uhura has effectively sabotaged the communications station. I can only contact the surface of the planet. The ship can be maintained in orbit for several months, but even with automatic controls, I cannot pilot her alone. In effect, I am marooned here. I'm beginning to realize just how big this ship really is, how quiet. I don't know how to get my crew back, how to counteract the effect of the spores. I don't know what I can offer against paradise.
KIRK: Enterprise to Mister Spock.

[Pasture]
SPOCK: Yes, Jim. What is it now?

[Bridge]
KIRK: I've joined you. I understand now.

[Field]
SPOCK: Wonderful, Jim. When will you beam down?

[Bridge]
KIRK: There are some things in my quarters I want to pack.

[Field]
SPOCK: Good. Leila and I will meet you at the beam down point.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk out.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: No. No! I can't leave! Emotions. Violent emotions. Needs. Anger.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I think I've diskovered the answer, but to carry out my plan entails considerable risk. Mister Spock is much stronger than the ordinary human being. Aroused, his great physical strength could kill. But it's a risk I'll have to take.

[Field]
KIRK (voiceover): Enterprise to Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here.
KIRK (voiceover): It's Jim.
SPOCK: What's keeping you, Jim? We've been waiting.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: I've been packing some things, and I realize there's some equipment here that we should have down at the settlement.

[Field]
KIRK (voiceover): You know we can't come back on board once the last of us has left.
SPOCK: Do you want me to beam up a party?

[Transporter room]
KIRK: No, I think you and I can handle it. Why don't you beam up now?

[Field]
SPOCK: Just a moment. It won't take long. Do you mind?
LEILA: I'll wait.
SPOCK: Ready to beam up, Jim.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energizing.
KIRK: All right, you mutinous, disloyal, computerized, half-breed, we'll see about you deserting my ship.
SPOCK: The term half-breed is somewhat applicable, but computerized is inaccurate. A machine can be computerized, not a man.
KIRK: What makes you think you're a man? You're an overgrown jackrabbit, an elf with a hyperactive thyroid.
SPOCK: Jim, I don't understand.
KIRK: Of course you don't understand. You don't have the brains to understand. All you have is printed circuits.
SPOCK: Captain, if you'll excuse me.
KIRK: What can you expect from a simpering, devil-eared freak whose father was a computer and his mother an encyclopedia?
SPOCK: My mother was a teacher. My father an ambassador.
KIRK: Your father was a computer, like his son. An ambassador from a planet of traitors. A Vulcan never lived who had an ounce of integrity.
SPOCK: Captain, please don't
KIRK: You're a traitor from a race of traitors. Disloyal to the core, rotten like the rest of your subhuman race, and you've got the gall to make love to that girl.
SPOCK: That's enough.
KIRK: Does she know what she's getting, Spock? A carcass full of memory banks who should be squatting in a mushroom, instead of passing himself off as a man? You belong in a circus, Spock, not a starship. Right next to the dog-faced boy.
KIRK: Had enough? I didn't realize what it took to get under that thick hide of yours. Anyhow, I don't know what you're so mad about. It isn't every first officer who gets to belt his Captain several times.
SPOCK: You did that to me deliberately.
KIRK: Believe me, Mister Spock, it was painful in more ways than one.
SPOCK: The spores. They're gone. I don't belong anymore.
KIRK: You said they were benevolent and peaceful. Violent emotions overwhelm them, destroy them. I had to make you angry enough to shake off their influence. That's the answer, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That may be correct, Captain, but trying to initiate a brawl with over five hundred crewmen and colonists is hardly logical.
KIRK: I had something else in mind. Can you put together a subsonic transmitter. Something we can hook into the communications station and broadcast over the communicator?
SPOCK: It can be done.
KIRK: Good. Let's get to work.
SPOCK: Captain. Striking a fellow officer is a court martial offense.
KIRK: Well, if we're both in the Brig, who's going to build the subsonic transmitter?
SPOCK: That is quite logical, Captain.

[Field]
MCCOY: Well now, it's a little early to be counting stars, Miss Leila.
LEILA: I'm waiting for Mister Spock and the Captain to transport down. They had some equipment to be moved. But it's been so long. I wish he'd come back.
MCCOY: Well, now, I think I can fix that for you. Enterprise?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here.

[Field]
LEILA: This is Leila. I borrowed the doctor's communicator. I was worried something might have happened to you.

[Bridge]
LEILA (voiceover): You are all right, aren't you?
SPOCK: Yes. Yes. I'm quite well.

[Field]
LEILA: Can I come aboard? I've never seen a starship before

[Bridge]
LEILA (voiceover): and I want to talk to you.
SPOCK: Are you still at the beam down point, and is the doctor there?

[Field]
LEILA: Yes to both questions.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Give your communicator back to Doctor McCoy. You won't need it to beam up. It'll take a few moments. Just wait there. Out.
KIRK: Mister Spock, Miss Kalomi is strictly your concern, but should you talk to her while she's still under the influence of the spores?
SPOCK: I'll be back shortly, Captain.

[Transporter room]
LEILA: You're no longer with us, are you? I felt something was wrong.
SPOCK: It was necessary.
LEILA: Come back to the planet with me. You can belong again. Come back with me, please.
SPOCK: I can't.
LEILA: I love you. I said that six years ago, and I can't seem to stop repeating myself. On Earth, you couldn't give anything of yourself. You couldn't even put your arms around me. We couldn't have anything together there. We couldn't have anything together anyplace else. We're happy here. I can't lose you now, Mister Spock. I can't.
SPOCK: I have a responsibility to this ship, to that man on the Bridge. I am what I am, Leila, and if there are self-made purgatories, then we all have to live in them. Mine can be no worse than someone else's.
LEILA: I have lost you, haven't I? And not only you, I've lost all of it. The spores. I've lost them, too.
KIRK: The Captain diskovered that strong emotions and needs destroy the spore influence.
LEILA: And this is for my good? Do you mind if I say I still love you? You never told me if you had another name, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: You couldn't pronounce it.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: They'll not hear this, of course. It'll be more a sensation of feeling it.
KIRK: As though somebody had put itching powder on their skin.
SPOCK: Precisely. It should begin to work on their nerves in a few minutes.

[Field]
SULU: Sorry, DeSalle.
DESALLE: What do you think you're doing?
SULU: I said I was sorry.
DESALLE: More like you're clumsy.
SULU: If you hadn't gotten in my way
KELOWITZ: Come on. Break it up. Break it up.

[Pasture]
ELIAS: Well, Doctor, I've been thinking about what sort of work I could assign you to.
MCCOY: What do you mean, what sort of work? I'm a doctor.
ELIAS: Not any more, of course. We don't need you. Not as a doctor.
MCCOY: Oh, no? Would you like to see how fast I can put you in a hospital?
ELIAS: I am the leader of this colony. I'll assign you whatever work I think suitable.
MCCOY: Just a minute. You'd better make me a mechanic. Then I can treat little tin gods like you. Sorry, Sandoval. I don't know what made me do that.
ELIAS: We've done nothing here. No accomplishments, no progress. Three years wasted. We wanted to make this planet a garden.
MCCOY: You can't stay here. You can't survive without the spores. After you've cleared at the Starbase, you could be relocated. It depends upon what you want.
ELIAS: I think I'd, I think we'd like to get some work done. The work we started out to do.
MCCOY: Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here.

[Pasture]
MCCOY: This is McCoy. Sandoval would like to talk to the Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Just a moment. They're all beginning to call in, Captain. Rather contritely, I should say. Sandoval wishes to speak to you.
KIRK: Put him on the speaker. Kirk here.

[Pasture]
ELIAS: Oh, Captain, as I understood it, you were to transport us to Starbase Twenty Seven. We'll give you every co-operation.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Start making preparations, Mister Sandoval. We'll begin transporting your people aboard as soon as more of our crew checks in.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Well, Jim, I've just examined the last of the colonists, and they're all in absolutely perfect, perfect health. A fringe benefit left over by the spores.
KIRK: Good.
MCCOY: Well, that's the second time man's been thrown out of paradise.
KIRK: No, no, Bones. This time we walked out on our own. Maybe we weren't meant for paradise. Maybe we were meant to fight our way through. Struggle, claw our way up, scratch for every inch of the way. Maybe we can't stroll to the music of the lute. We must march to the sound of drums.
SPOCK: Poetry, Captain. Non-regulation.
KIRK: We haven't heard much from you about Omicron Ceti Three, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I have little to say about it, Captain, except that for the first time in my life I was happy.

[Mine tunnel]
SAM: Who's there?
VANDERBERG: It's your relief, Sam. All quiet?
SAM: Didn't see a thing, Chief.
SCHMITTER: Nobody ever does. Whatever the thing is, it's already killed fifty people. I never realized before how dark it is down here.
VANDERBERG: Stay on your toes, Schmitter. Keep your phaser in your hand at all times.
SCHMITTER: What good will that do? You saw what happened to Ed Appel when he shot at it. How about those other people before the monster got them?
VANDERBERG: I'm sorry, Schmitter. I know how you feel, but we've got to have guards.
SCHMITTER: Okay, Chief. I'll do what I can.
VANDERBERG: Keep alert. If you hear anything or see anything, call in. Somebody can arrive in three minutes.
SCHMITTER: A lot can happen in three minutes. Chief, is it true the Enterprise is on its way?
VANDERBERG: It's coming.
SCHMITTER: You think it could get here in the next four hours?
VANDERBERG: You'll be all right.
VANDERBERG: Come on.
VANDERBERG: Schmitter. Like the rest of them. Burned to a crisp.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3196.1. A distress call from the pergium production station on Janus Six has brought the Enterprise to that long-established colony. Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy, and I have beamed down to meet with Chief Engineer Vanderberg, administrative head of Janus Six.

[Vanderberg's office]
KIRK: All right, let's assume there is a monster. What has it done? When did it start?
VANDERBERG: About three months ago, we opened up a new level. Sensors gave us an unusually rich pergium reading. Not only pergium, whatever you want. Uranium, sirium, platinum. The whole planet's like that. It's a treasure house.
KIRK: Yes, we're aware of that. If mining conditions weren't so difficult, Janus Six could supply the mineral needs of a thousand planets. But what happened?
VANDERBERG: First, the automatic machinery, piece by piece, started to almost disintegrate. Metal began dissolving away. There was no reason for it, and our chemists were unable to analyze the corrosive agent.
SPOCK: I'm sure there is an answer. It simply has not yet been diskovered.
VANDERBERG: Yes, it has. I don't know what this butchering monster is, but I know what it's doing. Our maintenance engineers sent down to the drifts to repair the corroded machinery. We found them seared to a crisp.
KIRK: Volcanic activity?
SPOCK: There is no current volcanic activity on this planet, Captain.
VANDERBERG: He's right. None. At first the deaths were down deep, but they've been moving up toward our levels. The last man died two days ago three levels below this.
KIRK: Same way? Burned?
MCCOY: I'd like to examine the body.
VANDERBERG: We kept it for you. There isn't much left. Roberts will show you. It isn't pretty.
KIRK: Do you post sentries? Guards?
VANDERBERG: Of course. Five of them have died.
KIRK: Who else has seen this?
APPEL: I have.
VANDERBERG: This is Ed Appel, chief processing engineer.
KIRK: Describe it.
APPEL: I can't. I only got a glimpse of it, but it's big and shaggy.
VANDERBERG: Ed shot it.
SPOCK: Oh. You mean shot at it.
APPEL: No. I mean shot it. With this.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
APPEL: A good, clean shot. Didn't even slow it down. Well, I've made my report to you. Production has stopped, nobody will go into the lower levels, and I don't blame them. If the Federation wants pergium, then you're going to have to do something about it.
KIRK: That's why we're here, Mister Vanderberg.
APPEL: You're all pretty tough, aren't you? Starship, phaser banks. You can't get your starship down in the tunnels.
KIRK: I don't think we'll need to, Mister Appel. Mister Vanderberg, we'll need a complete subsurface chart of all the drifts, galleries and tunnels. Mister Vanderberg, I'll need a complete subsurface chart of all the drifts, galleries, tunnels.
VANDERBERG: You'll get it.
SPOCK: Mister Vanderberg, what is this?
VANDERBERG: It's a silicon nodule. There are a millions of them are down there. No commercial value.
SPOCK: But a geological oddity, to say the least. Pure silicon?
VANDERBERG: A few trace elements. Look, we didn't call you here so you could collect rocks.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Vanderberg. We'll need your complete co-operation.
VANDERBERG: You'll have it. Just find that creature, whatever it is. I've got a quota to meet. Come on, Appel.
KIRK: The vast number of tunnels won't make our hunting any easier. Doc?
MCCOY: Schmitter didn't burn to death, not in the usual sense, anyway.
KIRK: Explain.
MCCOY: Well, there are only fragments of bone and teeth left, but the plant's physician agrees with me. A chemical corrosion. Almost as if he'd been thrown into a vat of extremely corrosive acid.
KIRK: Strong enough to eat machinery?
MCCOY: Strong enough to eat anything else that you can think of.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I've charted the positions of the deaths and acts of sabotage. Here, here, and here. If the times of these incidents are to be accepted as accurate, the creature would have to have moved at an incredible rate of speed.
KIRK: Mister Vanderberg, how recent are these charts?
VANDERBERG: They were made last year.
KIRK: Before the appearance of whatever it is?
VANDERBERG: That's right.
KIRK: I see. Mister Spock give us a report on life beneath the surface. Within range of our sensors, there is no life, other than the accountable human residents of this colony beneath the surface. At least, no life as we know it.
KIRK: We can't cover tunnel by tunnel on foot. We must get production going again. We must have that pergium.
SPOCK: If we could force another appearance of this creature
VANDERBERG: When that creature appears, men die.
KIRK: Too many tunnels. We couldn't possibly. Mister Spock, our sensors can pick up normal life functions at a considerable distance, but what about abnormal life functions?
VANDERBERG: Something's happening in the reactor room!

[Tunnel outside the reactor room]
VANDERBERG: Back to your stations. Look at that.
SPOCK: I wouldn't touch it, Captain. An extremely active corrosive. Traces may linger.
VANDERBERG (voiceover): Kirk, quickly!

[Reactor room]
VANDERBERG: The main circulating pump for the entire reactor is gone.
SPOCK: The same indication as shown at the door, Captain. A very strong corrosive.
KIRK: Is there a replacement for that?
VANDERBERG: No, none. It's outdated, but we never had any trouble with it.
KIRK: Spock, on board?
SPOCK: Nothing for a device this antiquated, Captain.
VANDERBERG: Without the pump mechanism, the reactor will go supercritical. It could poison half the planet. We can't shut it down. It provides heat and air and life support for the whole colony.
KIRK: Mister Spock, we seem to have been given a choice. Death by asphyxiation or death by radiation poisoning.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: A PXK pergium reactor? No, sir. We don't have any spare circulating pump for a thing like that. I haven't seen a PXK in twenty years.

[Reactor room]
KIRK: Can you rig one up? It's vital.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Well sir, I can put together some odds and ends, but it won't hold for long.

[Reactor room]
KIRK: How long?
SCOTT (voiceover): Forty eight hours maybe, with a bit of luck.
KIRK: Forty eight hours is better than nothing. Gather what you need and beam down here with it. {Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Top priority.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.

[Reactor room]
SCOTT (voiceover): I'll be right down. Scott out.
VANDERBERG: What happens when it breaks down?
KIRK: Hopefully we'll have found the missing part by then.
VANDERBERG: Hopefully. Small chance.
KIRK: We'll have to, Chief. The alternative is to evacuate all you people up to the Enterprise. A dozen planets depend on you for pergium for their reactor. They're already screaming. Reactors closing down, life support systems
VANDERBERG: I'm concerned with my people right here, Kirk. They're being murdered. You find that monster and kill it.

[Vanderberg's office]
SPOCK: The missing pump wasn't taken by accident. It was the one piece of equipment absolutely essential for the operation of the reactor.
KIRK: Do you think the creature is trying to push the colonists off the planet?
SPOCK: It would seem so.
KIRK: But why now, Mister Spock? These production facilities have been in operation for over fifty years.
SPOCK: I don't know. But there is a possibility.
KIRK: What's that?
SPOCK: Life as we know it is universally based on some combination of carbon compounds, but what if life exists based on another element? For instance, silicon.
MCCOY: You're creating fantasies, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Not necessarily, Bones. I've heard of the theoretical possibility of life based on silicon. A silicon-based life would be of an entirely different order. It's possible that our phasers might not affect it.
SPOCK: Certainly not phaser one, which is far less powerful than phaser two.
KIRK: All right, how about this? A creature that lives deep in the planet below us, at home in solid rock. It seems to me that in order to survive, it would have to have some form of natural armor plating.
SPOCK: It could explain much, especially since the colonists are armed only with phaser one.
KIRK: But our people have phaser number two.
SPOCK: Which I could adjust to be more effective against silicon.
MCCOY: Silicon-based life is physiologically impossible, especially in an oxygen atmosphere.
SPOCK: It may be, Doctor, that the creature can exist for brief periods in such an atmosphere before returning to its own environment.
MCCOY: I still think you're imagining things.
KIRK: You may be right, Doctor, but at least it's something to go on. Mister Spock, have Lieutenant Commander Giotto assemble the security troops and arm them with phaser number two. You make the proper adjustments. You seem fascinated by this rock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. You recall that Vanderberg commented there were thousands of these at a lower level, the level which the machinery opened just prior to the first appearance of the creature.
KIRK: Do they tie in?
SPOCK: I don't know.
KIRK: Speculate.
SPOCK: I have already given Doctor McCoy sufficient cause for amusement. I'd prefer to cogitate the possibilities for a time.
KIRK: A short time, Mister Spock. We have very little.

[Reactor room]
KIRK: How's it going, Scotty?
SCOTT: Well sir, it's a plumber's nightmare, but it'll hold for a bit.
KIRK: It has to hold longer than a bit.
SCOTT: Sorry, sir. That's about the best I can do, but I guarantee it's not good enough.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, the security officers have gathered in Chief Vanderberg's office.
KIRK: I'll be right there. Kirk out. Scotty, ride herd on it. Kind words. Tender, loving care. Kiss it. Baby it. Flatter it if you have to, but keep it going.
SCOTT: I'll do what I can, sir.

[Vanderberg's office]
KIRK: You will proceed from level to level, checking out every foot, every opening. You are searching for some sort of creature which is highly resistant to phaser fire. Phasers will be set on maximum, and remember this. Fifty people have died. I want no more deaths.
VANDERBERG: Except the bloody thing.
KIRK: The creature may or may not attack on sight. However, you must. It is vitally important we get this installlation back into production.
SPOCK: Mister Vanderberg, may I ask at which level you diskovered the nodules of silicon?
VANDERBERG: The twenty-third. Why? Commander Giotto, take your detail. Go directly to the twenty-third level. Start your search there.
GIOTTO: Aye, aye, sir. May I ask if you have reason to suspect this creature may be on that level?
KIRK: It's one of the possibilities we've diskussed. I want your people to stay on the top level, together at a safe place.
VANDERBERG: I don't know any safe place, Captain, the way that thing comes and goes.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, you have your instructions. Let's get at it.

[Tunnels]
KIRK: Mister Spock? Find something?
SPOCK: Adjusting my tricorder to register for silicon, Captain. Interesting.
KIRK: Traces?
SPOCK: A life form, Captain. Bearing one hundred eleven degrees, elevation four degrees.
KIRK: One of our people?
SPOCK: No, sir. Silicon.
KIRK: Come on.
SPOCK: He never even had a chance to fire, Captain.
KIRK: It's only been seconds since we heard him scream. The creature must still be around.
SPOCK: Captain. KIRK What is it?
SPOCK: This tunnel. My readings indicate it was made within the hour. Moments ago, in fact.
KIRK: Are you certain?
SPOCK: Positive.
KIRK: This tunnel goes back as far as the eye can see. Our best machinery couldn't cut a tunnel like this, not even with phasers.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. I'm quite at a loss.
KIRK: Gone.
SPOCK: Disappeared. Astonishing that anything of that bulk could move so rapidly.
KIRK: These walls are hot.
SPOCK: Indeed. This tunnel was cut within the last two minutes. GIOTTO Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, perfectly.
GIOTTO: Did you see it?
KIRK: Yes, we saw it. Where does the tunnel go?
SPOCK: Readings indicate a maze of tunnels of this general category in that direction.
GIOTTO: Did you shoot at it?
KIRK: Yes. We took a bite out of it.
KIRK: It's not animal tissue. What is it?
SPOCK: The closest approximation I could come to would be fibrous asbestos. A mineral, Captain.
KIRK: Then your guess was right.
SPOCK: It would seem so. Silicon-based.
KIRK: Summation.
SPOCK: We are dealing with a silicon creature of the deep rocks, capable of moving through solid rock as easily as we move through the air.
KIRK: That would account for the tunnels.
SPOCK: Correct. This creature's body secretes an extremely powerful corrosive.
KIRK: Powerful enough to dissolve the door of the reactor chamber.
SPOCK: And it explains the murdered men.
KIRK: It's definitely phaser resistant. We had our weapons set for silicon and on full power, yet we only damaged it. It still lives. GIOTTO You mean it's impossible to kill?
KIRK: No. No, it might require amassed phasers.
SPOCK: Or a single phaser with much longer contact.
KIRK: Commander, pass this on to your men We knew it was a killer. Now it's wounded, probably in pain somewhere back there. There's nothing more dangerous than a wounded animal. Commander Giotto, instruct your men to concentrate the search in this sector. Remind them the creature is wounded.
GIOTTO: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: What is it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I've run a complete spherical check on all life forms, radius one hundred miles. I've located our men, all of them, and I've located one creature moving rapidly through native rock, bearing two hundred and one. And that is all.
KIRK: One creature in a hundred miles?
SPOCK: Exactly. Captain, there are literally thousands of these tunnels in this general area alone, far too many to be cut by the one creature in an ordinary lifetime.
KIRK: Then we're dealing with more than one creature, despite your tricorder readings, or we have a creature with an extremely long life span.
SPOCK: Or it is the last of a race of creatures which made these tunnels. If so, if it is the only survivor of a dead race, to kill it would be a crime against science.
KIRK: Mister Spock, our mission is to protect this colony, to get the pergium moving again. This is not a zoological expedition. Maintain a constant reading on the creature. If we have to, we'll use phasers to cut our own tunnels. We'll try to surround it. I'm sorry, Mister Spock, but I'm afraid the creature must die.
SPOCK: I see no alternative myself, Captain. It merely seems a pity. The search team is gathering in the main tunnel.
KIRK: Good.

[Main tunnel]
KIRK: So it is wounded, and therefore twice as dangerous. Stay in pairs. If you see it, concentrate your phaser fire at what appears to be its head. Concentrate it. Maintain it. It is definitely resistant, but it can be hurt. And if it can be hurt, it can be killed. Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, if you'll examine your charts, please. I last located the creature in the area marked adit26 moving in bearing two zero one. This particular group will move out beyond that area in all directions in an effort to surround it, and possibly capture it.
KIRK: Your orders are shoot to kill. Protect yourself at all times. Commander Giotto, disperse your search parties.
GIOTTO: Aye, aye, sir. Louis, Vinci, take your men out.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Capture it? I don't recall giving any such order.
SPOCK: You did not, sir. I merely thought that if the opportunity arose
KIRK: I will lose no more men. The creature will be killed on sight and that's the end of it.
SPOCK: Very well, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock. I want you to assist Scotty in maintaining that makeshift circulating pump.
SPOCK: II beg your pardon, sir?
KIRK: You heard me. It's vital that we keep that reactor in operation. Your scientific knowledge
SPOCK: Is not needed there, sir. Mister Scott has far more knowledge of nuclear reactors than I do. You're aware of that.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you are second in command. This will be a dangerous hunt. Either one of us by himself is expendable. Both of us are not.
SPOCK: Captain, there are approximately one hundred of us engaged in this search, against one creature. The odds against you and I both being killed are 2,228.7 to 1.
KIRK: 2,228.7 to 1? Those are pretty good odds, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: And they are of course accurate, Captain.
KIRK: Of course. Well, I hate to use the word, but logically, with those kind of odds, you might as well stay. But please stay out of trouble, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That is always my intention, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scotty here, Captain. My brilliant improvisation Just gave up the ghost. It couldn't stand the strain.
KIRK: Can you fix it again?

[Reactor room]
SCOTT: Negative, Captain. It's gone for good.

[Main tunnel]
KIRK: Start immediate evacuation of all colonists to the Enterprise.

[Reactor room]
VANDERBERG: Not all of them, Captain. I and some of my key personnel are staying.

[Main tunnel]
VANDERBERG (voiceover): We'll be down to join you.
KIRK: We haven't enough phasers for you.

[Reactor room]
VANDERBERG: Then we'll use clubs. We're not being chased away from here. We're staying.

[Main tunnel]
KIRK: Good. Get everybody else aboard the Enterprise. The fewer people we have breathing the air down here, the longer the rest of us will be able to hold out. How much longer, Scotty?

[Reactor room]
SCOTT: The reactor will go super-critical in about ten hours, Sir. You have that long to find the mechanism.

[Main tunnel]
KIRK: We'll do our best. Start feeding us constant status reports, Scotty. Vanderberg, you and your crew assemble at level twenty three, checkpoint Tiger. Kirk out.

[Level twenty three]
KIRK: Team up with the Enterprise security personnel. They're better armed than you. Keep someone in sight at all times. Vanderberg, take two men. Go through that tunnel there. Rendezvous with Commander Giotto. Appel and the rest of the men, go through there and tie up with Lieutenant Osborne's detail. Mister Spock and I will control the operation from a central point. That's all.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, we are being watched.
KIRK: Are you sure? Intuition?
SPOCK: No, sir. We're being watched.
SPOCK: Captain. Fresh readings within the hour in each of these tunnels.
KIRK: The chart says both of these tunnels converge a few thousand yards further. You take the left. I'll take the right.
SPOCK: Should we separate?
KIRK: Two tunnels, two of us. We separate.

[Cavern]
KIRK: Mister Spock.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.

[Cavern]
KIRK: I've found a whole layer of these silicon nodules of yours, hundreds of them.
SPOCK (voiceover): Indeed? I find that most illuminating, Captain.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Be absolutely certain you do not damage any of them.

[Cavern]
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK (voiceover): Only a theory I have.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Captain? Are you all right? Jim? Jim!

[Cavern]
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, I'm all right. We seem to have had a cave-in.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: I could phaser you out.
KIRK (voiceover): No. No, no, you'd better not. Any disturbance might bring down the rest of the wall.

[Cavern]
KIRK: Besides, it isn't necessary. The chart said the tunnels meet further on.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Very well, but I find it extremely disquieting that your roof chose that particular moment to collapse. Please proceed with extreme caution. I shall quicken my pace.

[Cavern]
KIRK: Very well, Mister Spock. I'll meet you at the other end.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Captain, I just read some fresh signs.

[Cavern]
SPOCK (voiceover): The creature is in this area. I'll take a lifeform reading.
KIRK: It's not necessary, Mister Spock. I know exactly where the creature is.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Where, Captain?

[Cavern]
KIRK: Ten feet away from me.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Kill it, Captain, quickly.

[Cavern]
KIRK: It's not making any threatening moves, Spock.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: You don't dare take the chance, Captain.

[Cavern]
SPOCK (voiceover): Kill it.
KIRK: I thought you were the one who wanted it kept alive, captured if possible.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: Jim, your life is in danger. You can't take the risk.

[Cavern]
KIRK: It seems to be waiting.

[Tunnel]
SPOCK: I remind you it's a proven killer. I'm on my way. Spock out.

[Cavern]
KIRK: Well, what do we do, just talk it over?
KIRK: Well, you can be hurt, can't you? We just sit here? It's your move.
KIRK: No, no! Don't shoot. Come on over, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Fascinating. It's made no moves against you?
KIRK: No. It seems to be waiting. I tried talking to it, but it didn't do any good.
KIRK: Yes, they're all through here, all over the place. Thousands of them.
SPOCK: Yes, I see.
KIRK: Does it means something to you?
SPOCK: Possibly the answer, Captain, but I'm not certain. Captain, you are aware of the Vulcan technique of the joining of two minds.
KIRK: You think you can get through to that thing?
SPOCK: It's possible.
KIRK: Mister Spock, I know it's a terrible personal lowering of mental barriers but if there's a chance
SPOCK: I'll try.
SPOCK: Pain! Pain! Pain! That's all I got, Captain. Waves and waves of searing pain. It's in agony.
KIRK: No kill I. What is that, a plea for us not to kill it, or a promise that it won't kill us?
SPOCK: I don't know, Captain. Evidently, it gained an immediate knowledge of us from its empathy with me. In my brief contact with the creature's mind, I diskovered it is a highly intelligent, extremely sophisticated animal. In great pain, of course, because of its wound, but not reacting at all like a wounded creature. It calls itself a Horta.
KIRK: A Horta. A Horta! Mister Spock, we need that retardation mechanism. You must re-establish communications with it.
SPOCK: Captain, it has no reason to give us the device, and apparently every reason for wishing us off this planet.
KIRK: Yes, I'm aware of that. If we could only win its confidence. Doctor McCoy, this is Captain Kirk.
MCCOY (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Grab your medical kit and come down here on the double. I've got a patient for you.
MCCOY (voiceover): Is somebody injured? What happened?
KIRK: Never mind. Just come down to the twenty third level. You'll be led to us by tricorder readings. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Jim, I remind you that this is a silicon-based form of life. Doctor McCoy's medical knowledge will be totally useless.
KIRK: He's a healer, let him heal. Mister Spock, you must re-establish communications. I want to know why it suddenly took to murder.
SPOCK: To obtain that kind of communication, Captain, it will be necessary to touch it.
KIRK: We've seen how the creature destroys.
KIRK: Lieutenant Commander Giotto.
GIOTTO (voiceover): Giotto here, Captain. Are you all right?
KIRK: Perfectly all right. Where are you?

[Level twenty three]
GIOTTO: We're at the end of the tunnel. Mister Vanderberg and his men are here, and they're pretty ugly. Shall I let them through?

[Cavern]
KIRK: Under no circumstances allow them in here yet. The minute Doc McCoy gets there, send him through.

[Level twenty three]
GIOTTO: Aye, aye, sir.

[Cavern]
SPOCK: Murder. Of thousands. Devils! Eternity ends. The chamber of the ages. The altar of tomorrow! Murderers! Stop them. Kill! Strike back! Monsters!
MCCOY: What in the name of? What is Spock doing?
KIRK: It's wounded. Badly. You've got to help it.
MCCOY: Help that?
KIRK: Go take a look.
SPOCK: The end of life. Murderers.
MCCOY: You can't be serious. That thing is virtually made out of stone!
KIRK: Help it. Treat it.
MCCOY: I'm a doctor, not a bricklayer.
KIRK: You're a healer. There's a patient. That's an order. Mister Spock. Tell it we're trying to help. The mechanism.
SPOCK: Understood. It is the end of life. Eternity stops. Go out into the tunnel. To the chamber of the ages. Cry for the children. Walk carefully in the vault of tomorrow. Sorrow for the murdered children. The thing you search for is there. Go. Go. Sadness. Sadness for the end of things. Go into the tunnel. There is a passageway. Quickly, quickly.

[Level twenty three]
GIOTTO: The Captain said for you to wait here, and here is where you'll wait.
APPEL: That murdering monster's in there and we're going to kill it.
GIOTTO: You're going to stay here.

[Cavern]
MCCOY: That's right, Lieutenant. Just beam it down to me immediately, and never mind what I want it for. I just want it! Now move!
SPOCK: It is time to sleep. It is over. Failure. The murderers have won. Death is welcome. Let it end here.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Mister Spock. Spock. Spock! Come out of it. I found the unit in there. It's in pretty good shape. I also found about a million of these silicon nodules. They're eggs, aren't they?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain, eggs and about to hatch.
KIRK: The miners must have broken into the hatchery. Their operations destroyed thousands of them. No wonder.

[Level twenty three]
APPEL: There. They're coming.
APPEL: All right! All right, let's go!
VANDERBERG: Come on.

[Cavern]
KIRK: How are you doing, Doc?
MCCOY: I'll let you know.
KIRK: Don't fire. First man that fires is dead.
VANDERBERG: That thing has killed fifty of my men.
KIRK: You've killed thousands of her children.
VANDERBERG: What?
KIRK: Those round silicon nodules that you've been collecting and destroying? They're her eggs. Tell them, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: There have been many generations of Horta on this planet. Every fifty thousand years, the entire race dies, all but one, like this one, but the eggs live. She cares for them, protects them. And when they hatch, she is the mother to them, thousands of them. This creature here is the mother of her race.
KIRK: The Horta is intelligent, peaceful, mild. She had no objection to sharing this planet with you, till you broke into her nursery and started destroying her eggs. Then she fought back in the only way she knew how, as any mother would fight when her children are in danger.
VANDERBERG: We didn't know. How could we? You mean if these eggs hatch, there'll be thousands of those things crawling around down here?
KIRK: This is where they live. They digest rock, they tunnel for nourishment.
SPOCK: And they are the most inoffensive of creatures. They harbor ill will towards no one.
APPEL: Now look, we have pergium to deliver.
KIRK: Yes, I know. Here's your circulating pump. You've complained this planet is a mineralogical treasure house if you had the equipment to get at it. Gentlemen, the Horta moves through rock the way we move through air, and it leaves tunnels. The greatest natural miners in the universe. It seems to me we could make an agreement, reach a modus vivendi. They tunnel. You collect and process, and your process operation would be a thousand times more profitable.
VANDERBERG: Sounds all right, if it will work.
SPOCK: Except for one thing. The Horta is badly wounded. It may die.
MCCOY: It won't die. By golly, Jim, I'm beginning to think I can cure a rainy day.
KIRK: Can you help it?
MCCOY: Help it? I cured it.
KIRK: How?
MCCOY: Well, I had the ship beam down a hundred pounds of that thermoconcrete. You know, the kind we use to build emergency shelters out of. It's mostly silicone. So I just trowelled it into the wound, and it'll act like a bandage until it heals. Take a look. It's as good as new.
KIRK: Well, Spock, I'm going to have to ask you to get in touch with the Horta again. Tell her our proposition. She and her children can do all the tunneling they want. Our people will remove the minerals, and each side will leave the other alone. Think she'll go for it?
SPOCK: It seems logical, Captain. The Horta has a very logical mind. And after close association with humans, I find that curiously refreshing.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Ship ready to leave orbit, Captain. Course laid in.
KIRK: Very good, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Chief Engineer Vanderberg standing by on channel one.
KIRK: Fine. Yes, Chief. Kirk here.

[Vanderberg's office]
VANDERBERG: Just wanted to tell you the eggs have started to hatch, Captain.

[Bridge]
VANDERBERG (voiceover): First thing the little devils do is start to tunnel.

[Vanderberg's office]
VANDERBERG: We've already hit huge new pergium deposits. I'm afraid to tell you how much gold and platinum and rare earths we've uncovered.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I'm delighted to hear that, Chief. Once Mother Horta tells her kids what to look for, you people are going to be embarrassingly rich.
VANDERBERG (voiceover): You know, the Horta aren't so bad once you're used to their appearance.

[Vanderberg's office]
VANDERBERG: Well. that's about it, Kirk. Thanks for everything.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Our pleasure, Chief. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Curious. What Chief Vanderberg said about the Horta is exactly what the Mother Horta said to me. She found humanoid appearance revolting, but she thought she could get used to it.
MCCOY: Oh, she did, did she? Now tell me, did she happen to make any comment about those ears?
SPOCK: Not specifically, but I did get the distinct impression she found them the most attractive human characteristic of all. I didn't have the heart to tell her that only I have
KIRK: She really liked those ears?
SPOCK: Captain, the Horta is a remarkably intelligent and sensitive creature, with impeccable taste.
KIRK: Because she approved of you?
SPOCK: Really, Captain, my modesty
KIRK: Does not bear close examination, Mister Spock. I suspect you're becoming more and more human all the time.
SPOCK: Captain, I see no reason to stand here and be insulted.
KIRK: Ahead, warp factor two.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, we've reached the designated position for scanning the coded directive tape.
KIRK: Good. We both guessed right. Negotiations with the Klingon Empire are on the verge of breaking down. Starfleet Command anticipates a surprise attack. We are to proceed to Organia and take whatever steps are necessary to prevent the Klingons from using it as a base.
SPOCK: Strategically sound. Organia is the only Class M planet in the disputed area, ideally located for use by either side.
KIRK: Organia's description, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Inhabited by humanoids. A very peaceful, friendly people living on a primitive level. Little of intrinsic value. Approximately Class D minus on Richter's scale of cultures.
KIRK: Another Armenia, Belgium.
SPOCK: Sir?
KIRK: The weak innocents who always seem to be located on the natural invasion routes.
SULU: Captain, the automatic deflector screen just popped on. Body approaching.
KIRK: Configuration, Mister Sulu.
KIRK: Phaser banks, lock on. Return fire. Maintain firing rate. One hundred percent dispersal pattern.
SPOCK: We've hit him, Captain. He's hurt.
KIRK: Damage control, report to the first officer.
SULU: Captain, the other ship doesn't register. Only drifting debris. We got him.
KIRK: All hands, maintain general alert. Hold battle stations. Damage report, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Minor, Captain. We were most fortunate. Blast damage in decks ten and eleven, minor buckling in the antimatter pods, casualties very light.
KIRK: Maintain surveillance, Mister Sulu.
SULU: No contact, Captain. He blew up all right.
KIRK: Well, we've been anticipating an attack. I'd say what we've just experienced very nearly qualifies.
SPOCK: Yes. It would seem to be an unfriendly act.
UHURA: Automatic all-points relay from Starfleet Command, Captain, code one.
KIRK: Well, there it is. War. We didn't want it, but we've got it.
SPOCK: Curious how often you humans manage to obtain that which you do not want.
KIRK: War or not, we've still got a job to do. Denying Organia to the Klingons.
SPOCK: With the outbreak of hostilities, that might not be easy.
KIRK: Lay in a course for Organia, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Negotiating with the Organians will be time-consuming, Captain, and time is one thing we'll have the least of.
KIRK: We won't get it by talking about it. The trigger's been pulled. We have to get there before the hammer falls. Ahead warp factor seven.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3198.4. We have reached Organia and established standard orbit. No signs of hostile activities in this area.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain. Unit XY-75847 report a fleet of Klingon ships in their sector, sir.
KIRK: What bearing?
UHURA: Unable to ascertain, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, have the phaser crews stand by their positions. Full power deflector screens.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock and I are going to the planet's surface. You will be in command. Your responsibility is to the Enterprise, not to us. Is that clear?
SULU: Perfectly, sir.
KIRK: The Klingon fleet is in this quadrant. We know that Organia will be a target. If they should emerge
SULU: We'll handle them, sir.
KIRK: You will evaluate the situation. If there is a fleet of them, you'll get out of here, Mister Sulu.
SULU: But, Captain
KIRK: No buts. You'll get to safety and alert the fleet. You will not attack alone. Mister Spock and I will be all right. Mister Spock, let's you and I pay the Organians a visit.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: You'd think they had people beaming down every day.
SPOCK: Yes. Curious lack of interest. Notice the ruins in the distance, Captain. Quite large.
KIRK: Yes. A fortress, perhaps. A castle.
SPOCK: Whatever it is, it would seem to be inconsistent with the reports we've been given on this culture.
AYELBORNE: Welcome.
KIRK: Reception committee?
SPOCK: It would seem so.
AYELBORNE: You are our visitors. Welcome, welcome. I am Ayelborne.
KIRK: I am Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. This is my first officer Mister Spock.
AYELBORNE: You are most welcome, my friend.
KIRK: I would like to speak to someone in authority.
AYELBORNE: We don't have anybody in authority, but I am the chairman of the Council of Elders. Perhaps I would do.
KIRK: You people are in great danger. Is there someplace we can go and talk?
AYELBORNE: Oh, yes. Our council chambers are nearby. Please.
SPOCK: Captain, if you don't mind, I should like to wander about the village and make some studies.
AYELBORNE: Of course, my friend. Our village is yours. Captain.

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Gentlemen, my government has informed me that the Klingons are expected to move against your planet with the objective of making it a base of operation against the Federation. My mission, frankly, is to keep them from doing it.
AYELBORNE: What you're saying, Captain, is that we seem to have a choice between dealing with you or your enemies.
KIRK: No, sir. With the Federation, you have a choice. You have none with the Klingons. The Klingons are a military dictatorship. War is their way of life. Life under the Klingon rule would be very unpleasant. We offer you protection.
CLAYMARE: We thank you for your altruistic offer, Captain, but we really do not need your protection.
AYELBORNE: We are a simple people, Captain. We have nothing that anybody could want.
KIRK: You have this planet and its strategic location. I assure you that if you don't take action to prevent it, the Klingons will move against you as surely as your sun rises. We will help you build defenses, build facilities.
AYELBORNE: We have no defenses, Captain, nor are any needed.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have seen what the Klingons do to planets like yours. They are organized into vast slave labor camps. No freedoms whatsoever. Your goods will be confiscated. Hostages taken and killed, your leaders confined. You'd be far better off on a penal planet. Infinitely better off.
AYELBORNE: Captain, we see that your concern is genuine. We are moved. But again we assure you we are in absolutely no danger. If anybody is in danger, you are, and that concerns us greatly. It would be better if you returned to your ship as soon as possible.
KIRK: You keep insisting there's no danger. I keep assuring you there is. Would you mind telling me
AYELBORNE: It is our way of life, Captain.
KIRK: That's the first thing that would be lost! Excuse me, gentlemen. I'm a soldier, not a diplomat. I can only tell you the truth.
AYELBORNE: If you will excuse us, Captain, we will diskuss your kind offer.
KIRK: Certainly.
SPOCK: Captain, our information on these people and their culture was not correct. This is not a primitive society making progress toward mechanization. They are totally stagnant. There is no evidence of any progress as far back as my tricorder can register.
KIRK: That doesn't seem likely.
SPOCK: Nevertheless, it is true. For tens of thousands of years, there has been absolutely no advancement, no significant change in their physical environment. This is a laboratory specimen of an arrested culture.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. That might be useful.
AYELBORNE: We have diskussed your offer, Captain. Our opinion is unchanged. We are in no danger. We thank you for your kind offer of assistance, although we must decline it, and we strongly recommend that you leave Organia before you yourselves are endangered.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I must get you to reconsider. We can be of immense help to you. In addition to military aid, we can send you specialists, technicians. We can show you how to feed a thousand people where one was fed before. We can help you build schools, educate the young in the latest technological and scientific skills. Your public facilities are almost non-existent. We can help you remake your world, end disease, hunger, hardship. All we ask in return is that you let us help you. Now.
AYELBORNE: Captain, I can see that you do not understand us. Perhaps
KIRK: Excuse me, sir. Kirk here.
SULU: Captain, a large number of Klingon vessels have just arrived.

[Bridge]
SULU: They're opening fire.
KIRK (voiceover): Positive identification?
SULU: Yes, sir. My screens are up. I can't drop them to beam you aboard.

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, follow your orders. Get out of here. Contact the fleet. Return if the odds are more equal. Kirk out. Gentlemen, you kept insisting that there was no danger
AYELBORNE: That is correct, Captain. There is no danger.
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, eight space vehicles have assumed orbit around our planet. They are activating their material transmission units.
AYELBORNE: Thank you, Trefayne.
KIRK: Can you verify that?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain, but it seems a logical development.
AYELBORNE: Captain, since it is too late for you to escape, perhaps we should do something about protecting you.
KIRK: If you had listened to me
CLAYMARE: We must be sure you are not harmed.
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, several hundred men have appeared near the citadel. They bring many weapons.
KIRK: How does he know that?
AYELBORNE: Oh, our friend Trefayne is really quite intuitive. You can rest assured that what he says is absolutely correct.
KIRK: So we're stranded here, in the middle of a Klingon occupation army.
SPOCK: So it would seem. Not a very pleasant prospect.
KIRK: You have a gift for understatement, Mister Spock. It's not a very pleasant prospect at all. Captain's Log. stardate 3201.7. Mister Spock and I are trapped on the planet Organia, which is in the process of being occupied by the forces of the Klingon Empire. The Organians have provided us with native clothing in the hopes we may be taken for Organians.

[Council Chamber]
SPOCK: Captain, our phasers are gone.
KIRK: Did you take them?
AYELBORNE: Yes, Captain. I took them.
KIRK: I must ask you to return them.
AYELBORNE: I'm sorry, Captain. I cannot do that. Were you armed, you might be tempted to use violence, and that we cannot permit. You, Captain, will pass as an Organian, and Mister Spock. Mister Spock presents a problem. He doesn't look like an Organian.
CLAYMARE: A Vulcan trader, perhaps. A dealer in kevas and trillium. Harmless to the Klingons.
KIRK: They know that Vulcan is a member of the Federation.
SPOCK: Vulcan merchants are not uncommon, Captain. It is a practical approach.
KIRK: What about the rest of you?
AYELBORNE: We shall continue as before. We have nothing to fear.
KIRK: You have a lot to learn, sir. And if I know the Klingons, you'll be learning it the hard way.
KOR: This is the ruling council?
AYELBORNE: I am Ayelborne, temporary head of the council. I bid you welcome.
KOR: No doubt you do. I am Kor, military governor of Organia. Who are you?
AYELBORNE: He is Baroner, one of our leading citizens.
KOR: And he has no tongue?
KIRK: I have a tongue.
KOR: Good. You will be taught how to use it. Where is your smile?
KIRK: My what?
KOR: The stupid, idiotic smile everyone else seems to be wearing. A Vulcan. Do you also have a tongue?
SPOCK: I am Spock, a dealer in kevas and trillium.
KOS: You do not look like a storekeeper. Take this man. Vulcans are members of the Federation. He may be a spy.
KIRK: He's no spy.
KOR: Well, have we a ram among the sheep? Do you object to us taking him?
KIRK: He's done nothing. Nothing at all.
KOR: Coming from an Organian, yours is practically an act of rebellion. Very good. So you welcome me. Do you also welcome me?
KIRK: You're here. There's nothing I can do about it.
KOR: Good honest hatred. Very refreshing. However, it makes no difference whether you welcome me or not. I am here and will stay. You are now subjects of the Klingon Empire. You'll find there are many rules and regulations. They will be posted. Violation of the smallest of them will be punished by death.
AYELBORNE: We shall obey your regulations, Commander.
KOR: You disapprove, Baroner.
KIRK: You need my approval?
KOR: I need your obedience. Nothing more. Will I have it?
KIRK: You seem to be in command.
KOR: Yes. I am. I shall need a representative from among you. Liaison between the forces of the occupation and the civil population. Smile and smile. I don't trust men who smile too much. You, Baroner, you're the man.
KIRK: Me? I don't want the job.
KOR: Have I asked whether or not you want it? We Klingons have a reputation for ruthlessness. You will find that it is deserved. Should one Klingon soldier be killed, a thousand Organians will die. I will have order. Is that clear?
AYELBORNE: Commander, I assure you our people want nothing but peace. We shall cause you no trouble.
KOR: I'm sure you will not. Take the Vulcan to the examination room. You, come with me. I will familiarize you with your new duties.
KIRK: And Mister Spock?
KOR: You are concerned?
KIRK: He is my friend.
KOR: You have a poor choice of friends. He will be examined. If he is lying, he will die. If he is telling the truth, he will find that business has taken a turn for the worse. Take him. You do not like to be pushed. Very good. You may be a man I can deal with, Baroner. Come with me.

[Kor's office]
KOR: From this day on, no public assemblages of more than three people. All publications to be cleared through this office. Neighborhood controls will be established, hostages selected. A somewhat lengthy list of crimes against the state.
KOR: You do not like them? Well?
KLINGON: He is what he claims to be, Commander, a Vulcanian merchant named Spock. His main concern seems to be how he would carry out his business under our occupation.
KOR: Nothing else?
KLINGON: The usual. A certain amount of apprehension regarding us. The mind is remarkably diskiplined.
KOR: You are sure?
KLINGON: I used force four, which is sufficient to break down any pretense.
KOR: Very well, Lieutenant. Would you like to try our little truth finder?
KIRK: I don't understand.
KOR: It's a mind-sifter or mind-ripper, depending on how much force is used. We can record every thought, every bit of knowledge in a man's mind. Of course, when that much force is used, the mind is emptied. Permanently, I'm afraid. What's left is more vegetable than human.
KIRK: And you're proud of it.
KOR: It is a tool, a weapon. Somewhat drastic, but very efficient.
KIRK: Are you sure you're all right?
SPOCK: Perfectly, Baroner. But it was an interesting experience.
KOR: All right, Vulcan, you may go. But you are an enemy alien. You will be under our scrutiny at all times. If I have to warn you
SPOCK: Not necessary, Commander. I understand you very well.
KOR: Return to your council, Baroner. You will receive our official notifications as soon as they are published. In the meantime keep the people in order. It is your responsibility.
KIRK: Or I will be killed.
KOR: That is exactly right. You will be killed.

[Village square]
KIRK: That mindsifter can't be all the terror they think it is.
SPOCK: It should not be underestimated, Captain. It reaches directly into the mind. We Vulcans have certain mental certain diskiplines which enable me to maintain a shield. Without those diskiplines, there would be no protection.
KIRK: I'll try and avoid it.
KLINGON 2: Out of the way, Organian.
SPOCK: I'm sorry, sir. We did not notice you.
KLINGON 2: Next time, keep your eyes open, or I'll shut them permanently.
SPOCK: Captain, I strongly suggest we direct our energies toward the immediate problem. Accomplishing our mission here.
KIRK: You didn't really think I was going to beat his head in, did you?
SPOCK: I thought you might.
KIRK: You're right. But as you say, we still have a job to do.
SPOCK: We'll receive no help from the Organians.
KIRK: Maybe, but sooner or later they'll start resenting how the Klingons run things. If we could prove to them they could do something to strike back, to keep the Klingons off balance.
SPOCK: Verbal persuasion seems to be ineffective. Perhaps a more direct approach?
KIRK: That's exactly what I had in mind. Mister Spock Did I or did I not see something that looked like a munitions dump outside of Kor's headquarters?
SPOCK: You did.
KIRK: I think it's time we did a little simple and plain communicating. Tonight.
SPOCK: A very meritorious idea, Captain.
KIRK: We're short of tools.
SPOCK: I'm certain the Klingons will provide whatever is necessary. It's a pleasure doing business with you, Mister Spock.

[Kor's Headquarters]
KIRK: Okay so far. Sonic grenade?
SPOCK: With a delayed action fuse. KIRK; Good.
SPOCK: These crates contain chemical explosives. They should make a most satisfactory display.
SPOCK: Six, five, four three.
KIRK: You were right, Mister Spock. A most satisfactory display.

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Of course we blew it up. Deliberately.
AYELBORNE: But that was violence.
KIRK: We did it to show you that you can fight back. You don't have to be sheep, you can be wolves.
CLAYMARE: Terrible to destroy.
KIRK: History is full of examples of civil populations fighting back successfully against a military dictatorship. We may not be able to destroy the Klingons, but we can tie them up. Blow up their installlations, disrupt their communications, make Organia useless to them.
SPOCK: Our fleet will eventually arrive. In the meantime, the battle is ours. It can be a successful one.
AYELBORNE: Captain, I implore you never to do such a thing again.
KIRK: Why? Are you afraid of retribution? Does your personal freedom mean so little to you?
AYELBORNE: How little you understand us, Captain.
KIRK: All I understand is that you apparently don't have the backbone to fight and protect your loved ones.

[Kor's office]
KIRK (voiceover): I speak of courage, gentlemen. Does courage mean so little to you?

[Council Chamber]
KOR: You speak of courage. Obviously you do not know the difference between courage and foolhardiness. Always it is the brave ones who die. The soldiers. I hope you will continue to savor the sweetness of your life. You disgust me.
AYELBORNE: What are you going to do with him, Commander?
KOR: What is always done with spies and saboteurs. He will be killed, after he has had first-hand experience of our mind scanner.
AYELBORNE: There's no need to use your machine on him, commander. I can tell you his name. It is Captain James T. Kirk.
KIRK: Ayelborne!
KOR: What? Captain of the USS Enterprise. A starship commander. And his first officer? I had hoped to meet you in battle, but
AYELBORNE: For some reason, he feels that he must destroy you, Commander, just as you feel you must destroy him.
KOR: That's going to be rather difficult now. Isn't it, Captain? What an admirable people. Do you always betray your friends?
AYELBORNE: I didn't want you to harm him. I'm sorry, Captain. It was for the best. No harm would come of it.
KIRK: I'm used to the idea of dying, but I have no desire to die for the likes of you.
KOR: I don't blame you, Captain. Lock up the Vulcan. Take the Captain to my office. We'll have a talk before I do what must be done.

[Kor's office]
KOR: You'll have a drink with me, Captain?
KIRK: No, thank you.
KOR: I assure you it isn't drugged. With our mind-scanner, we have no need for such crude methods.
KIRK: What do you want from me?
KOR: Oh, a very great deal, but first I want to talk. Just talk.
KIRK: You think I'm going to sit here and just talk with the enemy?
KOR: You'll talk. Either here, now, voluntarily, or under our mind-scanner. The fact is, Captain, I have a great admiration for your Starfleet. A remarkable instrument. and I must confess to a certain admiration for you. I know, of course, that it was you who destroyed our supplies last night.
KIRK: Something was destroyed? Nothing inconsequential, I hope.
KOR: Hardly. They were quite important to us, but they can be replaced. You of the Federation, you are much like us.
KIRK: We're nothing like you. We're a democratic body.
KOR: Come now. I'm not referring to minor ideological differences. I mean that we are similar as a species. Here we are on a planet of sheep. Two tigers, predators, hunters, killers, and it is precisely that which makes us great. And there is a universe to be taken.
KIRK: It's a very large universe, Commander, full of people who don't like the Klingons.
KOR: Excellent. Then it shall be a matter of testing each other's wills. Of power. Survival must be earned, Captain. Tell me about the dispersal of your Starfleet. .
KIRK: Go climb a tree.
KOR: I can get what I want through our mind-scanner, but there would be very little of your mind left, Captain. I have no desire to see you become a vegetable. This friend of yours, the Vulcan. He seems to have the ability to block our scanner. I think perhaps I will find out why. I will have him dissected. Your friend killed. You, a mental vegetable. Not a pleasant prospect, Captain, but it lies ahead for you unless you tell me everything I want to know. Twelve hours, Captain.
KIRK: It will take a lot longer than that, Commander.
KOR: Longer than that I will not wait. I respect you, Captain, but this is war, a game we Klingons play to win. Take him to the cell with his friend. And watch him closely.

[Cell]
SPOCK: It's no use, Jim. There's no way out.
KIRK: How much of the twelve hours do we have left?
SPOCK: Six hours, forty three minutes, if the Klingons are punctual.
KIRK: I think we can count on them being punctual. Blowing that munitions dump wasn't enough. If we get out of here, we've got to carry the attack directly to Kor. These Organians
SPOCK: They do not seem to understand. Most peculiar.
KIRK: Nevertheless, our orders still stand. We've got to make some attempt to neutralize the Klingon occupation.
SPOCK: We may not get the chance, Captain. These walls are very thick.
KIRK: And there are guards every few feet down the hall.
AYELBORNE: Oh, there you are, gentlemen. I trust you are in good health? Shall we go?
KIRK: Go?
AYELBORNE: Yes. Your captors plan to do violence to you. That we cannot permit. I came to take you away.
KIRK: You turned us over to them. You expect us to trust you now?
AYELBORNE: Is there really a choice, Captain? I offer you safety.

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: We can't stay here. This is the first place they'll look.
AYELBORNE: They will not come here, Captain. You may believe me.
KIRK: First you turn us in, then get us out. What are you doing now, waiting for the Klingons to post a reward so you can turn us in again and collect it?
AYELBORNE: How little you understand us, Captain.
SPOCK: Nor do we understand what happened to the guard at the citadel.
AYELBORNE: Please do not concern yourself about them.
KIRK: What happened to them?
AYELBORNE: Why, nothing happened to them, Captain. Nothing at all.

[Kor's office]
KLINGON: Commander!
KOR: Don't you see I'm busy?
KLINGON: The two Federation prisoners. They're gone.
KOR: You mean they've escaped?
KLINGON: I swear. No one was at fault. The guards, ten of them were constantly on duty watching the cell. Then when they opened it to give them food, they simply weren't there, and there was no way out.
KOR: If you're lying to me.
KLINGON: I swear!
KOR: All right, Lieutenant. Implement Special Occupation Order Number Four. Immediately!
KLINGON: Sir!

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Is that's all you can do, smile?
AYELBORNE: You are free, Captain.
KIRK: I want to know how I'm free, and why.
SPOCK: Indeed, there are several questions I would like to ask as well.
KIRK: This idiotic placidity of yours, your refusal to do anything to protect yourselves
AYELBORNE: We have already answered that question. To us, violence is unthinkable.
KOR (voiceover): Attention. Attention all Organians. Attention. This is Commander Kor. The two Federation prisoners have escaped, obviously with outside aid.

[Kor's office]
KOR: They will be returned immediately. So that you will know we mean what we say, listen.

[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Those are Klingon phasers. Take the door. Get down, gentlemen.

[Kor's office]
KOR: In the courtyard of my headquarters,

[Council Chamber]
KOR (voiceover): Two hundred Organians have just been killed. KIRK; Two hundred of them.
KOR (voiceover): In two hours, two hundred more will die, and two hundred more after that until the two Federation spies are turned over to us. This is the order of Kor.
KIRK: Did you hear them?
AYELBORNE: Yes, of course, Captain. But nothing has changed.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock. It seems it's up to you and me.
SPOCK: It would appear so, Captain.
KIRK: The Federation has invested a great deal of money in our training. They're about due for a small return. We have two hours with which to do it in.
SPOCK: But only two. More Organians will die.
KIRK: No. No more will die on account of us, Mister Spock. Where are those phasers?
AYELBORNE: I cannot tell you.
KIRK: You've told us a great deal about how you hate violence. Unless you tell me where those phasers are, you're going to have more violence than you know what to do with.
AYELBORNE: You mean you would actually use force?
KIRK: It's entirely up to you.
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, this is of no matter. Perhaps you'd better let him have what he wants. He
AYELBORNE: Very well, but it will do you no good. They're in that cabinet.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have no great love for you, your planet, your culture. Despite that, Mister Spock and I are going to go out there and quite probably die, in an attempt to show you that there are some things worth dying for.
AYELBORNE: There are only two of you against an army. Don't you realize that what you intend to do will be hopeless?
KIRK: Come on, Mister Spock, let's get out of here.
CLAYMARE: Brave men.
AYELBORNE: Yes, but so foolish.
TREFAYNE: Interesting, however.
AYELBORNE: Of course, we cannot allow it. To stop them is very bad.
CLAYMARE: It is necessary. They may harm one another.
AYELBORNE: Trefayne.
TREFAYNE: They will wait until darkness.
AYELBORNE: And then?
TREFAYNE: Terrible. Inconceivable. Savage.
AYELBORNE: We will wait.

[Kor's headquarters]
KIRK: Mister Spock, can we get those two guards? What would you say the odds on our getting out of here?
SPOCK: Difficult to be precise, Captain. I should say approximately 7,824.7 to 1.
KIRK: Difficult to be precise? 7,824 to 1?
SPOCK: 7,824.7 to 1.
KIRK: That's a pretty close approximation.
SPOCK: I endeavor to be accurate.
KIRK: You do quite well. Set your phaser on stun. We're after the top dog, not the members of the pack.
SPOCK: Very good.
KIRK: But if the situation calls for it, we kill, is that clear?
SPOCK: Clear, Captain.
KIRK: I'll take the one on the left. Fire.

[Council Chamber]
TREFAYNE: It has begun.
AYELBORNE: Very well.
CLAYMARE: It will be hard.
AYELBORNE: Prepare yourselves.

[Corridor]
KLINGON: No results, Commander.
KOR: Nothing?
KLINGON: I cannot understand these people.
KOR: They know what death is, don't they?
KLINGON: They do not seem to be worried about anything.
KOR: Bad enough to be a military governor, but to govern a population of sheep! Very well, Lieutenant, round up two hundred more.
KLINGON: Yes, sir.
KOR: Fools! Will I have to kill them all?
KIRK: If you don't tell me what I want to know, I'll kill you here and now. Is that clear?
KLINGON: Yes.
KIRK: Is Kor's office down there?
KLINGON: Yes.
KIRK: What about the hostages? Talk. Talk.
KLINGON: I am to gather two hundred more.
KIRK: To be killed?
KIRK: Mister Spock.
KIRK: Well, what are the odds now?
SPOCK: Less than seven thousand to one, Captain. It's remarkable we've got this far.
KIRK: Less than seven thousand to one. Well, getting better. Getting better.

[Kor's office]
KIRK: Just stay where you are, Commander.
KOR: You have done well to get this far through my guards.
SPOCK: I believe you'll find that several of them are no longer in perfect operating condition.
KOR: So, you are here. You will be interested in knowing that a Federation fleet is on its way here at the moment. Our fleet is preparing to meet them.
KIRK: Checkmate, Commander.
KOR: Shall we wait and see the results before you kill me?
KIRK: I don't intend to kill you unless I have to.
KOR: Sentimentality, mercy. The emotions of peace. Your weakness, Captain Kirk. The Klingon Empire shall win. Think of it, as we sit here, in space above us the destiny of the galaxy will be decided for the next ten thousand years. Can I offer you a drink? We can toast the victory of the Klingon fleet.
SPOCK: You may be premature. There are many possibilities.
KOR: Today we conquer. If some day we are defeated, well, war has its fortunes good and bad. Do you know why we are so strong? Because we are a unit. Each of us is part of the greater whole, always under surveillance. Even a commander like myself, always under surveillance, Captain. If you will note.
KIRK: Cover, Spock! Back!
KOR: Shoot! Shoot!

[Kor's office]
KIRK: What is it, Spock?
SPOCK: Inexplicable, Captain. Extreme heat. Not only the weapons but the bodies as well.
AYELBORNE: We are terribly sorry to be forced to interfere, gentlemen, but we cannot permit you to harm yourselves.
KOR: What are you talking about?
CLAYMARE: We have put a stop to your violence.
KIRK: You are stopping this? You?
CLAYMARE: All instruments of violence on this planet now radiate a temperature of three hundred and fifty degrees. They are inoperative.
KOR: My fleet!
AYELBORNE: The same conditions exist on both the star-fleets. There will be no battle.
KOR: Ridiculous!
AYELBORNE: I suggest you contact them. You too, Captain. Your ship is now within range of your communications device.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SULU: Captain.

[Bridge]
SULU: I can't explain it. We were just closing in on the Klingon fleet when

[Kor's office]
SULU (voiceover): Every control on our ship became too hot to handle.
SULU (voiceover): Our power's gone. Our phaser banks are dead.
KIRK: Stand by, Sulu.
KOR: My fleet, it's helpless.
KIRK: What have you done?
AYELBORNE: As I stand here, I also stand upon the home planet of the Klingon Empire, and the home planet of your Federation, Captain. I'm going to put a stop to this insane war.
KOR: You're what?
KIRK: You're talking nonsense.
AYELBORNE: It is being done.
KIRK: You can't just stop the fleet. What gives you the right?
KOR: You can't interfere. What happens in space is not your business.
AYELBORNE: Unless both sides agree to an immediate cessation of hostilities, all your armed forces, wherever they may be, will be immediately immobilized.
KIRK: We have legitimate grievances against the Klingons. They've invaded our territory, killed our citizens. They're openly aggressive. They've boasted that they'll take over half the galaxy.
KOR: Why not? We're the stronger! You've tried to hem us in, cut off vital supplies, strangle our trade! You've been asking for war!
KIRK: You're the ones who issued the ultimatum to withdraw from the disputed areas!
KOR: They are not disputed! They're clearly ours. And now you step in with some kind of trick.
AYELBORNE: It is no trick, Commander. We have simply put an end to your war. All your military forces, wherever they are, are now completely paralyzed.
CLAYMARE: We find interference in other people's affairs most disgusting, but you gentlemen have given us no choice.
KIRK: You should be the first to be on our side. Two hundred hostages killed.
AYELBORNE: No one has been killed, Captain.
CLAYMARE: No one has died here in uncounted thousands of years.
KOR: You are liars. You are meddling in things that are none of your business.
KIRK: Even if you have some power that we don't understand, you have no right to dictate to our Federation
KOR: Or our Empire!
KIRK: How to handle their interstellar relations! We have the right
AYELBORNE: To wage war, Captain? To kill millions of innocent people? To destroy life on a planetary scale? Is that what you're defending?
KIRK: Well, no one wants war. But there are proper channels. People have a right to handle their own affairs. Eventually, we will have
AYELBORNE: Oh, eventually you will have peace, but only after millions of people have died. It is true that in the future, you and the Klingons will become fast friends. You will work together.
KOR: Never!
CLAYMARE: Your emotions are most diskordant. We do not wish to seem inhospitable, but gentlemen, you must leave.
AYELBORNE: Yes, please leave us. The mere presence of beings like yourselves is intensely painful to us.
KIRK: What do you mean, beings like yourselves?
AYELBORNE: Millions of years ago, Captain, we were humanoid like yourselves, but we have developed beyond the need of physical bodies. That of us which you see is mere appearance for your sake.
KOR: Captain, it's a trick. We can handle them. I have an army.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Pure energy. Pure thought. Totally incorporeal. Not life as we know it at all.
KIRK: But what about this planet? The fields, the buildings, this citadel?
SPOCK: Conventionalisations, I should say. Useless to the Organians. Created so that visitors such as ourselves, could have conventional points of reference.
KOR: But is all of this possible?
SPOCK: We have seen it with our own eyes. I should say the Organians are as far above us on the evolutionary scale as we are above the amoeba.
KIRK: Well, Commander, I guess that takes care of the war. Obviously, the Organians aren't going to let us fight.
KOR: A shame, Captain. It would have been glorious.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You've been most restrained since we left Organia.
KIRK: I'm embarrassed. I was furious with the Organians for stopping a war I didn't want. We think of ourselves as the most powerful beings in the universe. It's unsettling to diskover that we're wrong.
SPOCK: Captain, it took millions of years for the Organians to evolve into what they are. Even the gods did not spring into being overnight. You and I have no reason to be embarrassed. We did, after all, beat the odds.
KIRK: Oh, no, no, no, Mister Spock, We didn't beat the odds. We didn't have a chance. The Organians raided the game.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Stay on top of it, Mister Sulu.
SULU: We're holding orbit, sir. The helm is sluggish.
SCOTT: Control circuits threatening to overload, Captain.
KIRK: Understood, Engineer. Mister Spock? We can't avoid these areas of turbulence.
SPOCK: I believe we'll have them plotted in a few more orbits, Captain.
KIRK: Sickbay. To the Bridge.
SCOTT: Switching to manual, Captain. Do we maintain this orbit?
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: This is of great scientific importance, Captain. We're actually passing through ripples in time.
KIRK: Maintain orbit. Open the channel to Starfleet Command. Precautionary measure, Lieutenant. Broadcast to Starfleet Command my past week's log entries, starting with the unusual readings we had on the instruments and how they led us here. Inform Starfleet Command that apparently something or someone down on this planet
KIRK: Bones. Can effect changes in time, causing turbulent waves of space displacement.
MCCOY: Some heart flutter. Better risk a few drops of cordrazine.
KIRK: Tricky stuff. Are you sure you want to risk
MCCOY: You were about to make a medical comment, Jim?
KIRK: Who, me, Doctor?
SCOTT: We're guiding around most of the time ripples now.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: All plotted but one, Captain. Coming up on it now. Seems to be fairly heavy displacement.
KIRK: Bones! Get back to your positions.
SPOCK: The hypo, Captain.
KIRK: It was set for cordrazine.
SPOCK: Empty.
KIRK: Communications, emergency medical team.
MCCOY: Killers! Assassins! I won't let you! I'll kill you first! I won't let you! You won't get me! Murderers! Killers!
KIRK: Security alert.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental entry. Two drops of cordrazine can save a man's life. A hundred times that amount has just accidentally been pumped into Doctor McCoy's body. In a strange, wild frenzy, he has fled the ship's Bridge. All connecting decks have been placed on alert. We have no way of knowing if the madness is permanent or temporary, or in what direction it will drive McCoy.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Continue alert, decks four through eleven. The medical department knows as little as we do. In dosages approaching this, there's some record of wild paranoia.
SPOCK: Confirmed by the library record tapes, Captain. Subjects failed to recognize acquaintances, became hysterically convinced that they were in mortal danger, and were seeking escape at any cost. Extremely dangerous to himself or to anyone else who might
GALLOWAY (voiceover): Bridge, Security. Alert, alert!
KIRK: Bridge here. Go ahead.

[Transporter room]
GALLOWAY: Security 054, sir. We just found the transport chief injured.

[Bridge]
CHIEF (voiceover): Captain, Doctor McCoy has beamed himself down to the planet.
SPOCK: And the transporter at that time, Captain, was focused on the center of the time disturbance.
KIRK: So whatever's down there, McCoy is in the heart of it. Set up a landing party. Let's go get him. Kirk out.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: These ruins extend to the horizon. Begin recording.
UHURA: Recording, sir.
SPOCK: And of considerable age. On the order of ten thousand centuries old.
KIRK: Detail, fan out. What is this thing, Mister Spock? It seems to be pulsating with power of some kind. Analysis, please.
SPOCK: Unbelievable, Captain.
KIRK: That's funny.
SPOCK: This single object is the source of all the time displacement.
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK: I can't. For this to do what it does is impossible by any science I understand. It is operating even now. Putting out waves and waves of time displacement, which we picked up millions of miles away.
UHURA: Landing party to Enterprise. No sign of Doctor McCoy. Search progressing.
SPOCK: Incredible power. It can't be a machine as we understand mechanics.
KIRK: Then what is it?
GUARDIAN: A question. Since before your sun burned hot in space and before your race was born, I have awaited a question.
KIRK: What are you?
GUARDIAN: I am the Guardian of Forever.
KIRK: Are you machine or being?
GUARDIAN: I am both and neither. I am my own beginning, my own ending.
SPOCK: I see no reason for answers to be couched in riddles.
GUARDIAN: I answer as simply as your level of understanding makes possible.
SPOCK: A time portal, Captain. A gateway to other times and dimensions, if I'm correct.
GUARDIAN: As correct as possible for you. Your science knowledge is obviously primitive.
SPOCK: Really.
KIRK: Annoyed, Spock?
GUARDIAN: Behold. A gateway to your own past, if you wish.
MCCOY: Killers! Killers! I won't let you get me! I'll kill you first! I won't let you get me! Assassins! Murderers! Killers!
KIRK: Spock! If that is a doorway back through time, could we somehow take Bones back a day in time, then
SPOCK: Relive the accident. This time be certain that the hypo accident is avoided. Look at the speed with which the centuries are passing, Captain. To step through on precisely the day we wish
KIRK: Guardian. Can you change the speed at which yesterday passes?
GUARDIAN: I was made to offer the past in this manner. I cannot change.
KIRK: Strangely compelling, isn't it? To step through there and lose oneself in another world.
SPOCK: I am a fool. My tricorder is capable of recording even at this speed. I've missed taping centuries of living history which no man before has ever
SCOTT: Doctor McCoy!
KIRK: Bones, no!
KIRK: Where is he?
GUARDIAN: He has passed into what was.
UHURA: Captain, I've lost contact with the ship. I was talking to them. Suddenly, it went dead. No static, just nothing.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty.
SCOTT: Nothing wrong with the communicator, sir.
GUARDIAN: Your vessel, your beginning, all that you knew is gone.
KIRK: McCoy has somehow changed history.
SCOTT: You mean we're stranded down here?
SPOCK: With no past, no future.
UHURA: Captain, I'm frightened.
KIRK: Earth's not there. At least, not the Earth we know. We're totally alone.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, no stardate. For us, time does not exist. McCoy, back somewhere in the past, has effected a change in the course of time. All Earth history has been changed. There is no starship Enterprise. We have only one chance. We have asked the Guardian to show us Earth's history again. Spock and I will go back into time ourselves and attempt to set right what ever it was that McCoy changed.
SPOCK: I was recording images at the time McCoy left. A rather barbaric period in your American history. I believe I can approximate just when to jump. Perhaps within a month of the correct time. A week, if we're fortunate.
KIRK: Make sure we arrive before McCoy got there. It's vital we stop him before he does whatever it was that changed all history. Guardian, if we are successful
GUARDIAN: Then you will be returned. It will be as though none of you had gone.
UHURA: Captain, it seems impossible. Even if you were able to find the right date
SCOTT: Then even finding McCoy would be a miracle.
SPOCK: There is no alternative.
KIRK: Scotty, when you think you've waited long enough. Each of you will have to try it. Even if you fail, at least you'll be alive in some past world somewhere.
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: Seconds now, sir. Stand by.
SCOTT: Good luck, gentlemen.
UHURA: Happiness at least, sir.
SPOCK: And now.

[Street]
KIRK: I've seen old photographs of this period. An economic upheaval had occurred.
SPOCK: It was called Depression, circa 1930. Quite barbaric.
KIRK: We seem to be costumed a little out of step with the time.
SPOCK: I'm afraid I'm going to be difficult to explain in any case, Captain.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, if we can't disguise you, we'll find some way of explaining you.
SPOCK: That should prove interesting.
KIRK: Let's get out of here.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
DRIVER: Look out, will you? Why don't you watch where you're going?
SPOCK: Theft, Captain?
KIRK: Well, we'll steal from the rich and give back to the poor later. I think I'm going to like this century. Simple, easier to manage. We're not going to have any difficulty explaining
POLICEMAN: Well?
KIRK: You're a police officer. I recognize the traditional accouterments.
SPOCK: You were saying you'll have no trouble explaining it.
KIRK: My friend is obviously Chinese. I see you've noticed the ears. They're actually easy to explain.
SPOCK: Perhaps the unfortunate accident I had as a child.
KIRK: The unfortunate accident he had as a child. He caught his head in a mechanical rice picker. But fortunately, there was an American missionary living close by who was actually a skilled plastic surgeon in civilian life.
POLICEMAN: All right, all right. Drop those bundles and put your hands on that wall there! Come on!
KIRK: Oh, how careless of your wife to let you go out that way.
POLICEMAN: What? Where?
SPOCK: Oh, yes, it's quite untidy. Here, let me help you.

[Cellar]
KIRK: You were actually enjoying my predicament back there. At times, you seem quite human.
SPOCK: Captain, I hardly believe that insults are within your prerogative as my commanding officer.
KIRK: Sorry.
KIRK: Time we faced the unpleasant facts.
SPOCK: First, I believe we have about a week before McCoy arrives, but we can't be certain.
KIRK: Arrives where? Honolulu, Boise, San Diego? Why not Outer Mongolia, for that matter?
SPOCK: There is a theory. There could be some logic to the belief that time is fluid, like a river, with currents, eddies, backwash.
KIRK: And the same currents that swept McCoy to a certain time and place might sweep us there, too.
SPOCK: Unless that is true, Captain, we have no hope. Frustrating. Locked in here is the place and moment of his arrival, even the images of what he did. If only I could tie this tricorder in with the ship's computers for just a few moments.
KIRK: Couldn't you build some form of computer aid here?
SPOCK: In this zinc-plated vacuum-tubed culture?
KIRK: Yes, well, it would pose an extremely complex problem in logic, Mister Spock. Excuse me. I sometimes expect too much of you.
EDITH: Who's there?
KIRK: Excuse us, miss. We didn't mean to trespass. It's cold outside.
EDITH: A lie is a poor way to say hello. It isn't that cold.
KIRK: No. We were being chased by a policeman.
EDITH: Why?
KIRK: These clothes. We stole them. We didn't have any money.
EDITH: Well, I could do with some help around here. Doing dishes, sweeping, general cleaning.
SPOCK: At what rate of payment? I need radio tubes and so forth. My hobby.
EDITH: Fifteen cents an hour for ten hours a day. What are your names?
KIRK: Mine is Jim Kirk. His is Spock.
EDITH: I'm Edith Keeler. You can start by cleaning up down here.
KIRK: Excuse me, Miss. Where are we?
EDITH: You're in the 21st Street Mission.
KIRK: Do you run this place?
EDITH: Indeed I do, Mister Kirk.
KIRK: Radio tubes and so on. I approve of hobbies, Mister Spock.

[Canteen]
EDITH: Good evening.
MAN: You'll be sorry.
KIRK: Why?
MAN: You expect to eat for free or something? You got to listen to Goody Two-shoes.
EDITH: Now, as I'm sure somebody out there has said, it's time to pay for the soup.
MAN: Not that she's a bad-looking broad, but if she really wanted to help out a fella in need
KIRK: Shut up. Shut up. I want to hear what she has to say.
SPOCK: Yes, of course, Captain.
EDITH: Now, let's start by getting one thing straight. I'm not a do-gooder. If you're a bum, if you can't break off of the booze or whatever it is that makes you a bad risk, then get out. Now I don't pretend to tell you how to find happiness and love when every day is just a struggle to survive, but I do insist that you do survive because the days and the years ahead are worth living for. One day soon man is going to be able to harness incredible energies, maybe even the atom. Energies that could ultimately hurl us to other worlds in some sort of spaceship. And the men that reach out into space will be able to find ways to feed the hungry millions of the world and to cure their diseases. They will be able to find a way to give each man hope and a common future, and those are the days worth living for. Our deserts will bloom.
KIRK: Development of atomic power is years away, and space flight years after that.
SPOCK: Speculation. Gifted insight.
KIRK: I find her most uncommon, Mister Spock.
EDITH: Prepare for tomorrow. Get ready. Don't give up.
EDITH: Mister Kirk. You are uncommon workmen. That basement looks like it's been scrubbed and polished.
KIRK: Then we can report back for other work?
EDITH: Yes. Seven o'clock in the morning. Do you have a flop for the night?
KIRK: A what?
EDITH: You really are new at this, aren't you? A flop is a place to sleep.
KIRK: Oh.
EDITH: There's a vacant room at the place where I live for two dollars a week. If you want to I'll take you there.
KIRK: Thank you.
EDITH: Good.
KIRK: We have a flop.
SPOCK: We have a what, Captain?
KIRK: A place to sleep.
SPOCK: One might have said so in the first place.

[Room]
SPOCK: Captain, I must have some platinum. A small block would be sufficient, five or six pounds. By passing certain circuits through there to be used as a duodynetic field core...
KIRK: Mister Spock, I've brought you some assorted vegetables, baloney in a hard roll for myself, and I've spent the other nine tenths of our combined salaries for the last three days on filling this order for you. Mister Spock, this bag does not contain platinum, silver or gold, nor is it likely to in the near future.
SPOCK: Captain, you're asking me to work with equipment which hardly very far ahead of stone knives and bearskins.
KIRK: McCoy'll be along in a few days, perhaps sooner. There's no guarantee that these currents in time will bring us together. This has to work.
SPOCK: Captain. Captain, in three weeks at this rate, possibly a month, I might reach the first mnemonic memory circuits.
KIRK: Your hat.
EDITH: If you can leave immediately, I can get you five hours work at twenty two cents an hour. What? What on Earth is that?
SPOCK: I am endeavoring, ma'am, to construct a mnemonic memory circuit using stone knives and bearskins.

[Canteen]
SPOCK: Captain. Tools for finely detailed work.

[Cellar]
EDITH: That toolbox was locked with a combination lock and you opened it like a real pro. Why did you do it?
SPOCK: I needed the fine tools for my radio work. They'd have been returned in the morning.
EDITH: I'm sorry, I can't
KIRK: If Mister Spock says that he needs the tools and that they'll be returned tomorrow morning, you can bet your reputation on that, Miss Keeler.
EDITH: On one condition. Walk me home? I still have a few questions I'd like to ask about you two. Oh, and don't give me that questions about little old us? look. You know as well as I do how out of place you two are around here.
SPOCK: Interesting. Where would you estimate we belong, Miss Keeler?
EDITH: You? At his side, as if you've always been there and always will. And you? You belong in another place. I don't know where or how. I'll figure it out eventually.
SPOCK: I'll finish with the furnace.
EDITH: Captain. Even when he doesn't say it, he does.

[Street]
EDITH: Why does Spock call you Captain? Were you in the war together?
KIRK: We served together.
EDITH: And you don't want to talk about it? Why? Did you do something wrong? Are you afraid of something? Whatever it is, let me help.
KIRK: Let me help. A hundred years or so from now, I believe, a famous novelist will write a classic using that theme. He'll recommend those three words even over I love you.
EDITH: Centuries from now? Who is he? Where does he come from er, where will he come from?
KIRK: Silly question. Want to hear a silly answer?
EDITH: Yes.
KIRK: A planet circling that far left star in Orion's belt. See?

[Room]
KIRK: How are the stone knives and bearskins?
SPOCK: I may have found our focal point in time.
KIRK: I think you may also find you have a connection burning someplace.
SPOCK: Yes. I'm overloading those lines. I believe we'll have our answer on this screen, Captain.
KIRK: Good.
SPOCK: And, Captain, you may find this a bit distressing.
KIRK: Let's see what you have.
SPOCK: I've slowed down the recording we made from the time vortex.
KIRK: February 23rd, 1936. Six years from now. The President and Edith Keeler conferred for some time today
KIRK: How bad?
SPOCK: Bad enough.
KIRK: The President and Edith Keeler.
SPOCK: It would seem unlikely, Jim. A few moments ago, I read a 1930 newspaper article.
KIRK: We know her future. Within six years from now, she'll become very important. Nationally famous.
SPOCK: Or Captain, Edith Keeler will die this year. I saw her obituary. Some sort of traffic accident.
KIRK: You must be mistaken. They both can't be true.
SPOCK: Captain, Edith Keeler is the focal point in time we've been looking for, the point that both we and Doctor McCoy have been drawn to.
KIRK: She has two possible futures then, and depending on whether she lives or dies, all of history will be changed. And McCoy
SPOCK: Is the random element.
KIRK: In his condition, what does he do? Does he kill her?
SPOCK: Or perhaps he prevents her from being killed. We don't know which.
KIRK: Get this thing fixed. We must find out before McCoy arrives.
SPOCK: Captain, suppose we diskover that in order to set things straight again, Edith Keeler must die?

[Street]
MCCOY: Assassins! Murderers! Murderers! Assassins! You! What planet is this? No! Don't run! I won't kill you! It's they who do the killing! Don't run! I won't kill you!

[Boarding house]
EDITH: Why? What is so funny about man reaching for the moon?
KIRK: How do you know?
EDITH: I just know, that's all. I feel it. And more, I think that one day they'll take all the money they spend now on war and death
KIRK: And make them spend it on life?
EDITH: Yes. You see the same things that I do. We speak the same language.
KIRK: The very same.

[Street]
MAN: No!
MCCOY: I'm glad you got away, too. Why do you think they want to kill us?
MAN: Look, fella, you take a sip too much of that old wood alky, and, and almost anything seems like it
MCCOY: Where? Where are we? Earth? The constellations seem right, but. Explain! Explain this trick.
MAN: I, I,
MCCOY: Biped. Small. Good cranial development. No doubt considerable human ancestry. Is that how you're able to fake all of this? Very good. Modern museum perfection. Right down to the cement beams. Very, very good. Oh, I'd give a lot to see the hospital. Probably needles and sutures. All the pain. They used to hand-cut and sew people like garments. Needles and sutures. Oh, the terrible pain!

[Room]
KIRK: How long before we get a full answer?
SPOCK: I'll need at least two more days before I dare make another attempt.
KIRK: McCoy could have been in the city a week now for all we know, and whatever he does that affects her and changes history could happen tonight or tomorrow morning.
SPOCK: Captain, our last bit of information was obtained at the expense of thirty hours work in fused and burned circuits.
KIRK: I must know whether she lives or dies, Spock. I must know what to do.

[Street]
CRIER (voiceover): Extra! Extra! Get your morning paper! Get your paper. Read all about it!

[Canteen]
MCCOY: Oh, Miss. That coffee, it just smells wonderful.
EDITH: You look terrible! You'd better sit down. Come on.
MCCOY: I can't. I got to keep moving. I can't let them find me.
EDITH: There's a cot in the back room. They won't find you there. Come on. (She helps him out just as Spock comes in and starts serving the drinks.

[Room]
SPOCK: This is how history went after McCoy changed it. Here, in the late 1930s. A growing pacifist movement whose influence delayed the United States' entry into the Second World War. While peace negotiations dragged on, Germany had time to complete its heavy-water experiments.
KIRK: Germany. Fascism. Hitler. They won the Second World War.
SPOCK: Because all this lets them develop the A-bomb first. There's no mistake, Captain. Let me run it again. Edith Keeler. Founder of the peace movement.
KIRK: But she was right. Peace was the way.
SPOCK: She was right, but at the wrong time. With the A-bomb, and with their V2 rockets to carry them, Germany captured the world.
KIRK: No.
SPOCK: And all this because McCoy came back and somehow kept her from dying in a street accident as she was meant to. We must stop him, Jim.
KIRK: How did she die? What day?
SPOCK: We can estimate general happenings from these images, but I can't trace down precise actions at exact moments, Captain. I'm sorry.
KIRK: Spock, I believe I'm in love with Edith Keeler.
SPOCK: Jim, Edith Keeler must die.

[Mission back room]
EDITH: Hey, now, come on. You're not ready to take on any tigers just yet. Lie down.
MCCOY: The most common question to ask would be, where am I? I don't think I'll ask it.
EDITH: Why not?
MCCOY: The only possible answer would conclusively prove that I'm either unconscious or demented. This looks like old Earth around 1920 or 25.
EDITH: Would you care to try for 30?
MCCOY: I am unconscious, or demented.
EDITH: I have a friend that talks about Earth the same way that you do. Would you like to meet him?
MCCOY: I'm a surgeon, not a psychiatrist. I am Leonard McCoy, Senior Medical Officer aboard the USS Enterprise.
EDITH: I don't mean to disbelieve you, but that's hardly a Navy uniform.
MCCOY: It's quite all right. It's quite all right dear, because I don't believe in you, either.
EDITH: Get some rest.

[Boarding house]
KIRK: Edith.
EDITH: Are you following me, sir?
KIRK: With ulterior motives. Does that please you?
EDITH: I hope it means Oh! How stupid! I've been up and down those stairs a thousand times. I could have broken my neck.
SPOCK: Captain, I did not plan to eavesdrop.
KIRK: No, of course you didn't.
SPOCK: I must point out that when she stumbled, she might have died right there, had you not caught her.
KIRK: It's not yet time. McCoy isn't here.
SPOCK: We're not that sure of our facts. Who's to say when the exact time will come? Save her, do as your heart tells you to do, and millions will die who did not die before.

[Mission back room]
MCCOY: Come in.
EDITH: Well, you look just fine, Doctor.
MCCOY: Thank you.
EDITH: I thought you might like to see the evening paper.
MCCOY: No, not particularly. You know, I've convinced myself that this is all in a cordrazine hallucination, but I've decided you're not.
EDITH: That's reassuring.
MCCOY: But if you're not, what are you?
EDITH: A friend. When you showed up here, you looked like you could use one.
MCCOY: I don't doubt it. What about this place? Do you run it?
EDITH: I try to.
MCCOY: Why?
EDITH: It's necessary.
MCCOY: Well, it was for me, at least. You may have saved my life.
EDITH: Lots of people drink from the wrong bottle sometimes.
MCCOY: Not as wrong as the bottle I drank from. Allow me to show my gratitude. Perhaps there's something I can do around here to thank you.
EDITH: We can talk about that later. I have to go. My young man is taking me to a Clark Gable movie.
MCCOY: A who movie?
EDITH: A Clark Gable. Don't you know?
MCCOY: Well, I know what a movie is, but.
EDITH: That's very strange. You get some rest. I'll see you later.

[Street]
EDITH: If we hurry, maybe we can catch the Clark Gable movie at the Orpheum.
KIRK: What?
EDITH: You know, Doctor McCoy said the same thing.
KIRK: McCoy! Leonard McCoy?
EDITH: Yes. He's in the Mission. He's
KIRK: Stay right here. Spock! Stay right there!
SPOCK: What is it?
KIRK: McCoy! He's in
SPOCK: No, Jim!
KIRK: Edith.
MCCOY: You deliberately stopped me, Jim. I could have saved her. Do you know what you just did?
SPOCK: He knows, Doctor. He knows.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT: What happened, sir? You only left a moment ago.
SPOCK: We were successful.
GUARDIAN: Time has resumed its shape. All is as it was before. Many such journeys are possible. Let me be your gateway.
UHURA: Captain, the Enterprise is up there. They're asking if we want to beam up.
KIRK: Let's get the hell out of here.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Anything, Lieutenant?
UHURA: No, sir. I've tried every major transmitting station on Deneva. None of them have acknowledged my contact signal.
KIRK: Try GSK-783, sub-space frequency 3.
UHURA: But sir, that's a call sign for a private transmitter.
KIRK: I'm very well aware of that, Lieutenant. Try it.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Evaluation, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: As I speculated, Captain, the overall pattern of mass insanity destroying civilisations follows an almost straight line through this section of the galaxy. Over here the Beta Portilin system the ancient civilisations. Archeologists have given us information indicating that they were the beginning. Two hundred years ago, Levinius Five was swept by mass insanity, then Theta Cygni Twelve. The last was Ingraham B, two years ago.
KIRK: And next in line, Deneva. Bones, what's your theory about the cause of all this?
MCCOY: There's no medical or scientific cause for what happened on those planets. Jim.
KIRK: But it follows a definite pattern, a systematic progression from planet to planet.
SULU: Captain, we're picking up a ship on our sensors, heading directly into the Denevan sun. He'll burn up.
KIRK: Plot an interception course, Mister Sulu. Warp factor eight. Lieutenant Uhura, try to contact that ship.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: The ship is a one-man vessel of Denevan configuration, Captain. He does not seem to be out of control. His course is straight for the sun.
KIRK: Scotty, tractor beams?
SCOTT: Out of range, sir.
UHURA: Making contact, Captain.
KIRK: Denevan ship, this is the USS Enterprise. Can you reverse your course? Acknowledge.
SCOTT: Captain, we'll get too close to the sun.
KIRK: Keep closing. Denevan ship, reverse your course. Do you hear me? Reverse your course. Acknowledge.
SPOCK: Outer hull temperature now four hundred and eighty degrees and rising.
SULU: He's too close, Captain.
SPOCK: So are we. Hull temperature one thousand degrees and rising. The sun's gravimetric pull increasing.
PILOT (voiceover): I did it. It's finally gone. I'm free. I'm
SULU: He burned up, Captain.
KIRK: Reverse course. One hundred and eighty degrees about.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: All clear, Captain. Hull temperature falling, gravimetric pull approaching tolerance level.
KIRK: Very well. Reduce to sub-warp speed. Take us to Deneva.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: That Denevan ship headed deliberately into the sun. Why?
MCCOY: There's one possibility. The mass insanity may have reached this planet, too.
UHURA: Captain, I'm having difficulty on that transmitter call to Deneva.
KIRK: Keep trying.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, your brother Sam and his family, aren't they stationed on this planet?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log stardate 3287.2. The mass insanity we have tracked across this section of the galaxy seems to have already touched Deneva. That planet, colonized over a century ago, is one of the most beautiful in the galaxy.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Planet development is normal, Captain. Originally colonized as a freighting-line base in this area.
SCOTT: Aye, they make regular trips from here carrying supplies to the asteroid belt for the miners and bringing cargo out. I've made the run a couple of times myself as an engineering advisor.
SPOCK: No Federation contacts for over a year.
UHURA: Captain. I've made contact with your private transmitter, sir.
KIRK: Put it on audio.
AURELAN (voiceover): Please hurry. Help us. I don't have much time. They'll know. Please! Please help us
KIRK: Aurelan, this is Jim on the Enterprise. Repeat your message.
UHURA: Contact broken, sir.
KIRK: Re-establish.
UHURA: Sorry, sir.
KIRK: I'm not interested in your excuses, Lieutenant. Re-establish contact with that transmitter.
UHURA: I'm afraid that's impossible at the moment, Captain. They stopped broadcasting immediately. They do not acknowledge my contact signal.
KIRK: Keep trying to raise them.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, did you know who that woman was?
KIRK: Yes. You were right a while back. My brother Sam lives on Deneva. He's a research biologist. That woman sounded like his wife Aurelan.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Set your phasers on stun. We're going to beam directly into the capital city. Alert status. Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura has had no further response to our signals. Sensors report the expected number of humans on the planet surface. However, they are strangely quiet. Very little activity.
KIRK: I'll want a complete transcript of everything that happens down there, Yeoman.
ZAHRA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Let's go. Energize.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: There are almost a million inhabitants of Deneva. There's more than one hundred thousand in this city alone. Where is everyone?
SPOCK: They're here, Captain. In the buildings. Strangely quiescent.
KIRK: My brother's lab is over there. They signaled us once. There should be someone there. Let's find out what's happening.
SPOCK: Captain, several people approaching.
MEN: Go back! Get away! We don't want to hurt you! Go back! Get out of here. Go on, get away! Go away! Get out of here! We don't want to hurt you.
KIRK: Stand by to fire. Fire.
KIRK: Did you hear what they said, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Indeed. They seemed most concerned for our safety.
KIRK: They tried to brain us with these clubs. Check them out, Bones.
SPOCK: Their attitude was inconsistent with their actions.
KIRK: To say the least.
MCCOY: There's something wrong, Jim. Their nervous systems. Unconscious like this, there should be just routine autonomic activity, but I'm getting a very high reading, as though even in their unconscious state, they're being violently stimulated.
KIRK: Fan out. Follow me. Security.

[Laboratory]
AURELAN: They're here! They're here! Please keep them away!
KIRK: Aurelan.
AURELAN: They're here! They're here!
KIRK: Bones. Aurelan, you're safe now.
MCCOY: Is this your brother, Jim?
KIRK: Sam. It is my brother. Was my brother.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Jim. The boy's unconscious, but he's still alive.
KIRK: Peter?
MCCOY: I'd better get the boy and his mother back to the ship. I can't do much for them down here.
KIRK: Get ready to beam up.
MCCOY: McCoy to Enterprise. Prepare to beam up party of four.
SPOCK: Captain, I understand how you must
KIRK: Yes. Yes, Mister Spock. You heard my sister-in-law say something about they being here. Your guess.
SPOCK: Notice the ventilator, Captain. Apparently they were trying to keep something outside from getting in. Obviously they were not entirely successful.
KIRK: It doesn't make sense. There are no harmful life forms reported. Our sensors didn't pick up anything that didn't belong here.
SPOCK: That is correct. I am at a loss to understand it.
MCCOY: Ready to beam up, Captain. I'd like you to be onboard when your sister-in-law regains consciousness.
KIRK: Take charge of the landing party, Mister Spock. I want some answers to all this.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: I won't be able to give you the exact cause until I get the plates back from the lab. They're both in extreme pain. I sedated them heavily. But your sister-in-law seems to have a high tolerance. The tranquilizer hasn't affected her much.
KIRK: Can she talk?
MCCOY: Yes.
KIRK: Aurelan? Aurelan, it's Jim.
AURELAN: Jim? Sam, he's
KIRK: He's dead. But your son's still alive. You've got to help us.
AURELAN: You are here. It is you, Jim.
KIRK: Yes, I'm here. You have to tell us what happened, Aurelan, to you and the others.
AURELAN: They came eight months ago.
KIRK: Who?
AURELAN: Things. Horrible things! Visitors brought them in their vessel from a planet. Ingraham B.
KIRK: What kind of things?
AURELAN: Not the ship's crew's fault. The things made them bring their ship here.
KIRK: Aurelan, it's important that you tell us. What kind of things?
AURELAN: Not their fault.
MCCOY: When she answers questions, any questions, it's as if she's fighting to get the answers out. As though something is exerting pain to stop her.
AURELAN: They use it to control us. They're spreading, Jim. They need us to be their arms and legs. They're forcing us to build ships for them. Don't let them! Don't let them go any further! (One last scream and convulsion, then all her readings plummet to zero.
KIRK: My brother's son?
MCCOY: I'll do everything I can, Jim, to save him.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Report.
SPOCK: The streets are extraordinarily quiet, Captain. We've seen no other Denevans, and the ones we stunned earlier were gone when we came out.
KIRK: You've seen some kind of creature? Any alien form?
SCOTT: None, sir. Just that noise we heard.
SPOCK: A peculiar buzzing sound. We were about to investigate it.
KIRK: All right. Let's go find out what it is. Set your phasers on force three, to kill. We're looking for some kind of creature, and we already know it will kill.

[Courtyard]
KIRK: Spock!
KIRK: Form a ring. Fire!
SPOCK: Incredible. Not only should it have been destroyed by our phasers, it does not even register on my tricorder.
ZAHRA: Captain, it doesn't even look real.
SPOCK: It is not life as we know or understand it. Yet t is obviously alive, it exists.
KIRK: And it can bear up under full phaser power.
SPOCK: Captain, I suggest we risk taking it aboard.
KIRK: It's too close in here. It may be a trap in here. Let's move out.
KIRK: Spock! Spock! It's gone. Can you stand? Spock, are you all right?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log supplemental. Whatever the creatures are, they have apparently taken over all the inhabitants of Deneva. Meanwhile, ship's surgeon Doctor McCoy is examining a strange puncture wound left by one of the creatures on Mister Spock's back.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Nurse. That's the second time he's come out of it. Either he's fighting us, or something inside of him is fighting us.
CHAPEL: Doctor, the readings have never looked like that before, not even on Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Let's prepare to close. Nurse!
CHAPEL: Doctor, that's not all you're going to do?
MCCOY: Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: Doctor, there is more of it in him, entwined all through his body.
MCCOY: Miss Chapel, if you cannot assist me as required, call another nurse in here. But do one or the other now.

[Bridge]
KIRK: How is he?
MCCOY: To be very frank, Jim, I don't know that I can do anything for Spock or your nephew. They're pieces of some form of living tissue. I removed one from Spock's spinal cord, the other from your sister-in-law's body. They're both the same. The boy's too weak to touch. Besides, removal of the tissue wouldn't stop the pain anyhow as far as I can tell.
KIRK: Did you operate on Spock in time?
MCCOY: No. I just removed these for examination. His body's full of these tentacles, entwining and growing all about his nervous system.
KIRK: My nephew?
MCCOY: The same. Evidently, when the creature attacks, it leaves a stinger much like a bee or wasp, leaving one of these in the victim's body. It takes over the victim very rapidly, and the entwining is far, far too involved for conventional surgery to remove.
KIRK: Recommendations?
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Jim. The lab, the science departments, we're all stumped.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: No! No!
CHAPEL: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: No, I won't.
CHAPEL: Mister Spock.
CHAPEL: Bridge, this is Sickbay. Tell Doctor McCoy Mister Spock just left here.

[Bridge]
CHAPEL (voiceover): He's delirious and possibly dangerous.
KIRK: All decks, security alert. Locate and restrain Mister Spock. He may be dangerous. Use phasers on stun if necessary.
SPOCK: I must take the ship.
SPOCK: Down! I must take it down.
KIRK: Get him back to the Sickbay. Use security restraints.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: The K3 indicator registers the level of pain. Watch as I turn it on. That's what he's been going through. I've never seen anything like it. No wonder the poor devils go mad.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy. Captain.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: These restraints will no longer be necessary. Nor will your sedatives, Doctor. I'll be able to return to duty. I apologize for my weakness earlier when I tried to take control of the ship. I simply did not understand. What is there to understand, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I am a Vulcan, Doctor. Pain is a thing of the mind. The mind can be controlled.
KIRK: You're only half-Vulcan. What about the human half of you?
SPOCK: It is proving to be an inconvenience, but it is manageable. And the creature, with all of its thousands of parts, even now is pressuring me. It wants this ship, but I am resisting.
KIRK: Can he control it the way he says, Bones?
MCCOY: Who knows, Jim? I know the amount of pain the creature can inflict upon him, but whether he can control it hour to hour
SPOCK: I have my own will, Captain. Let me help.
KIRK: I need you, Spock, but we can't take any chances. We'll keep you confined for a while longer. If you can maintain control, we'll see. My nephew. If he regains consciousness, will he go through that?
MCCOY: Yes.
KIRK: Help them. I don't care what it takes or costs. You've got to help them.
MCCOY: Jim, aren't you forgetting something? There are over a million colonists on that planet down there, just as much your responsibility. They need your help, too.
SPOCK: I am a Vulcan. I am a Vulcan. There is no pain.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, I thought you were still confined to Sickbay.
SPOCK: I was.
SCOTT: Here, now. Where do you think you're going?
SPOCK: I have an errand on the planet's surface. You will beam me down to the same co-ordinates as before.
SCOTT: Not likely, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That is an order, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir, and I'm sorry I have to disobey it. The Captain said no one was to transport down. Mister Spock.
SCOTT: Freeze right there, Mister Spock, or I'll put you to sleep for sure. This is Mister Scott in the transporter room. Get me the Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, I gave you an order to stay in the Sickbay.
SPOCK: Until the pain was gone, Captain. It has been diskontinued by me.
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: He said he was transporting down to the surface, sir. Your orders were that no one was to beam down unless you authorized it. And knowing Mister Spock's determination on some things, I thought I'd better hold him here until I got your orders.
SPOCK: One of the creatures will have to be captured and analyzed, Captain. We did not have a clear opportunity to do so earlier when I was attacked. Since my nervous system is already affected, as you pointed out, Doctor, I don't believe they can do much more to me.
MCCOY: Jim, this is ridiculous. I don't want my patients running around. He should be in bed.
SPOCK: I am in complete control of myself, Doctor. The fact that I am here proves that I do not belong in bed.
KIRK: Mister Spock, your logic, as usual, is inescapable. Beam him down. Stay in constant touch with us. Give him your phaser. He'll need that, too.
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: Energize.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Jim, that man is sick. Don't give me any damnable logic about him being the only man for the job.
KIRK: I don't have to, Bones. We both know he is.

[Science lab]
SPOCK: Come in, gentlemen. I believe you'll find this interesting. Doctor, your medical skill and curiosity are quite admirable, but I assure you I'm all right.
MCCOY: You may be controlling the pain, Mister Spock, but you're far from all right.
SPOCK: Unimportant at the moment, Doctor. Please observe. Interesting, gentlemen. A one-celled creature resembling, more than anything else, a huge, individual brain cell.
KIRK: Yes. That would answer a lot of questions.
SPOCK: Do you understand what I'm suggesting, Captain?
KIRK: I think so. This may be one cell in a larger organism. An incredibly huge organism, in fact.
SPOCK: And although it is not physically connected to the other cells, it is nevertheless part of the whole creature, guided by the whole, drawing its strength from the whole, which probably accounts for its unusual resistance to our phaser weapons.
KIRK: Existing so differently from any living matter or energy as we know it, that it may have come here, planet by planet, from an entirely different galaxy.
SPOCK: From a place where our physical laws do not apply. We may therefore find it difficult to destroy, Captain.
KIRK: But not impossible, Mister Spock. The Denevan that flew into the sun cried out that he was free, that he'd won. That's the angle to work on, gentlemen. I want an analysis of all this from Medical and Life Science departments within the hour.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Captain. I've tried everything I can. Variant radiation, intense heat, even as great as nine thousand degrees.
KIRK: Then you're wasting your time. There has to be something that'll kill the creature without destroying the human host.
MCCOY: Which happens to be my point. The thing won't die, even at temperatures and radiation which would burn Spock and your nephew to ashes.
KIRK: I can't accept that, Bones. We've got fourteen science labs aboard this ship. The finest equipment and computers in the galaxy.
MCCOY: Captain, I understand your concern. Your affection for Spock, the fact that your nephew is the last survivor of your brother's family.
KIRK: No, no, Bones. There's more than two lives at stake here. I cannot let it spread beyond this colony, even if it means destroying a million people down there.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3289.8. I am faced with the most difficult decision of my life. Unless we find a way to destroy the creatures without killing their human hosts, my command responsibilities will force me to kill over a million people.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Gentlemen.
SPOCK: I regret I see no other choice for you, Captain. We already know this thing has destroyed three civilisations. Perhaps more.
MCCOY: Gentlemen, I want it stopped, too, but not at the cost of destroying over a million people.
SPOCK: Including myself, Doctor, and Captain Kirk's young nephew. Understandably upsetting, but once it spreads past here, there are dozens of colonies beyond and billions of people.
MCCOY: If killing five people saves ten, it's a bargain. Is that your simple logic, Mister Spock?
KIRK: I will accept neither of those alternatives, gentlemen. I cannot let this thing expand beyond this planet, nor do I intend to kill a million or more people to stop it. I want another answer. I'm putting you gentlemen on the hot seat with me. I want that third alternative.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Report.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Jim. We've been over and over it, made every conceivable test.
SPOCK: I therefore request permission to beam down to the planet's surface. I also suggest that your nephew accompany me.
KIRK: Request denied.
SPOCK: Captain, I do not make this request lightly. I do not know how much longer I can hold out against the pain. But I do know what the boy will go through should he regain consciousness.
KIRK: Request denied. There must be another answer. Something in the sun killed that thing before the Denevan died. All right. All right. We've tried heat, radiation. What other qualities or properties does the sun have?
SPOCK: It exists physically. It occupies space. It has mass, therefore gravity. It converts matter to energy.
MCCOY: Jim, we've been through it and through it. Radiation, heat
KIRK: But one other thing you haven't mentioned. It's bright. It radiates a blinding light if you're close enough.
MCCOY: Nothing lethal about light.
KIRK: Not to us. But down on the surface, the creatures stayed in the shadows for the most part. Suppose they weren't simply hiding. Suppose they're sensitive to light. Light, like in a sun, close up.
SPOCK: A possibility.
MCCOY: You can't move Deneva closer to the sun, Jim.
KIRK: No, but you can move the equivalent of the sun to Deneva. Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Yes. In essence, it can be done. A string of satellites around the planet with burning tri-magnesite and trevium.
MCCOY: Well, I can rig a test cubicle in the bio-lab, put our specimen in it. But I don't
KIRK: Good. Let's get on it.

[Bio-lab]
KIRK: Your figures are, of course, accurate.
SPOCK: Of course. The light of the sun at the proximity where the Denevan declared himself free was one million candles per square inch. If this works, the satellites we orbit will produce light of such intensity that even someone in a closed, darkened area will be affected by it.
CHAPEL: Ready, Doctor.
MCCOY: Put on your masks.
MCCOY: Completed.
MCCOY: It worked! We can do it. What's the matter, Jim? We can do it.
KIRK: It worked in a lab. With the creature exposed to everything we can give it. But what about the people who are infected?
MCCOY: Well, I don't know. Maybe trial
KIRK: Maybe. There's no time for maybes, Bones. We need to know now.
MCCOY: But I'd have to put a
KIRK: Yes, we'd have to put someone who's infected under that light.
MCCOY: Do you have any idea of the risk?
KIRK: We have to duplicate the conditions on the planet, and Spock
SPOCK: Captain, you'll need a host for the next step in the test to determine whether the creature can be driven from the body. I am the logical choice.
MCCOY: Do you know what one million candlelight per square inch can do to your optic nerves?
KIRK: There's no other way, Bones. We have to duplicate the brilliance that existed at the moment the Denevan declared himself freed.
MCCOY: All right. I'll rig up a protective pair of goggles.
SPOCK: There'll be none on the planet's surface, Doctor.
KIRK: I agree completely.
MCCOY: Unfortunately, you're both right. It's the only thing we can do. All right, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Mister Spock's the best first officer in the fleet.
KIRK: Proceed.
MCCOY: Completed.
KIRK: Spock, are you all right?
SPOCK: The creature within me is gone. I am free of it and the pain.
SPOCK: And I'm also quite blind. An equitable trade, Doctor. Thank you.
CHAPEL: Doctor, the results of the first tests on the creature's remains.
MCCOY: Oh, no.
KIRK: What is it?
MCCOY: I threw the total spectrum of light at the creature. It wasn't necessary. I didn't stop to think that only one kind of light might've killed it.
SPOCK: Interesting. Just as dogs are sensitive to certain sounds which humans cannot hear, these creatures evidently are sensitive to light which we cannot see.
KIRK: Are you telling me that Spock need not have been blinded?
MCCOY: I didn't need to throw the blinding white light at all, Jim. Spock, I
SPOCK: Doctor it was my selection as well. It is done.
KIRK: Bones, take care of him.

[Bridge]
SULU: Completing the seeding orbit, Captain. Two hundred and ten ultraviolet satellites now in position. Seventy two miles altitude, permanent orbit about the planet.
KIRK: Good. Scanners?
SCOTT: Scanners ready, sir. KIRK; Very well. Ready, Helm?
SULU: Ready, Captain.
KIRK: Satellite control, this is the Captain. Energize all satellites.
MAN (voiceover): Affirmative.
SCOTT: All satellites operative, Captain.
UHURA: Captain, receiving messages from a ground station.
KIRK: Report.
UHURA: The things are dying, sir. It's working.
KIRK: Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: McCoy here.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Tell Spock it worked.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Yes, Captain. He'll be happy to hear that.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Bones, it wasn't your fault.

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): Bones.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Bones.
KIRK: Yeoman, record this for Starfleet Command.
ZAHRA: Ready, sir.
KIRK: The alien creatures on Deneva have been destroyed
ZAHRA: Captain, look. Mister Spock.
KIRK: Spock. You can see.
MCCOY: The blindness was temporary, Jim. There's something about his optical nerves which aren't the same as a human's.
SPOCK: An hereditary trait, Captain. The brightness of the Vulcan sun has caused the development of an inner eyelid, which acts as a shield against high-intensity light. Totally instinctive, Doctor. We tend to ignore it, as you ignore your own appendix.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Regaining eyesight would be an emotional experience for most. You, I presume, felt nothing?
SPOCK: Quite the contrary, Captain. I had a very strong reaction. My first sight was the face of Doctor McCoy bending over me.
MCCOY: 'Tis a pity your brief blindness did not increase your appreciation for beauty, Mister Spock.
KIRK: If you gentlemen are finished, would you mind laying in a course for Starbase Ten, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: My pleasure, Captain.
MCCOY: Unusual eye arrangement. I might've known he'd turn up with something like that.
KIRK: What's that, Doctor?
MCCOY: I said, please don't tell Spock I said he was the best first officer in the fleet.
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Doctor McCoy.
KIRK: You've been so concerned about his Vulcan eyes, Doctor, you forgot about his Vulcan ears. Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Warp factor one, sir.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Still no response, sir.
KIRK: No, keep it open. I don't like this. Nothing since the first check in. Scott and Sulu should've contacted us again a half an hour ago.
SPOCK: They may have nothing to report. Our sensors indicate no life forms except our landing party.
KIRK: Both those men are well aware of landing party procedure. They should've checked in with us by now.
UHURA: Contact established, Captain.
JACKSON (voiceover): Jackson to Enterprise.
KIRK: Enterprise. Kirk here.
JACKSON (voiceover): One to beam up, Enterprise.
KIRK: One? Jackson, where are Scott and Sulu?
JACKSON (voiceover): I'm ready to beam up, sir.
KIRK: Jackson!
UHURA: I'm sorry. I can't clear it, Captain.
KIRK: Notify Transporter room to prepare to beam up one member of the landing party. Then have Doctor McCoy report to me in the Transporter room on the double.
UHURA: Yes, sir.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Energize.
MCCOY: What's on, Jim?
KIRK: Trouble. Jackson, where are the others?
MCCOY: The man is dead.
KOROB (voiceover): Captain Kirk, can you hear me? There is a curse on your ship. Leave this place or you will all die. Captain's Log, stardate 3018.2. Crewman Jackson is dead and there are no apparent physical causes. Mister Scott and Mister Sulu are still out of touch on the planet below. Leaving Assistant Chief Engineer DeSalle in command of the Enterprise, I'm beaming down to the planet's surface to find my two missing crewmen and diskover what killed Jackson.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Odd. Our probe data didn't indicate fog.
SPOCK: No cloud formations, no bodies of water, no changes in surface temperature. Under these conditions, fog is highly unlikely, Captain. According to our transporter co-ordinates this is the exact location from which Jackson was beamed up to the ship.
KIRK: Readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: No indications of. A moment, Captain. Picking up life form readings. Twenty four degrees mark seven. Range one thirty seven point one six meters. Multiple readings, Captain.
MCCOY: Scott and Sulu?
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura here.
KIRK: What are the ship's sensors reading now, Lieutenant?

[Bridge]
DESALLE: Report, Mister.
CHEKOV: I am only picking up physical impulses from the three of them. As far as instruments can make out, there is nothing else down there that's alive.
DESALLE: Relay, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Captain, we are only registering on you. Captain? Captain Kirk?

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Lieutenant, can you hear me?
MCCOY: Whatever this stuff is, it's getting thicker. Suppose that has anything to do with the interference?
KIRK: I don't know. There has to be some explanation for the fact that the ship's sensors can't register anything but us, while we're picking up readings of multiple life forms. Are they still there, Spock?
SPOCK: No change, Captain.
KIRK: Stand-by alert.
MCCOY: Listen. Now, what do you think that
KIRK: Quiet.
WITCH 1: Captain Kirk!
WITCH 2: Captain Kirk!
WITCH 3: Captain Kirk!
KIRK: Who are you?
WITCH 1: Go back!
WITCH 2: Go back!
WITCH 3: Go back! Remember the curse!
WITCH 1: Wind shall rise.
WITCH 2: And fog descend.
WITCH 3: So leave here, all, or meet your end.
KIRK: Spock. Comment?
SPOCK: Very bad poetry, Captain.
KIRK: A more useful comment, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: What we've just seen is not real.
KIRK: That's useful.
SPOCK: However, on azimuth twenty four, at just over one hundred meters, there are definitely life forms. Erratic, confused, but definitely registering.
KIRK: That's where we're going.
MCCOY: That was a pretty real illusion, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Jim.
SPOCK: This is the source of the life form readings, Captain. They're inside, somewhere.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
MCCOY: Is this how we lost contact with the first landing party?
KIRK: What about it, Spock? Does this structure have anything to do with communicator interference?
SPOCK: I would say not, Captain. There's no indication of anything that would cause such interference.
KIRK: And it doesn't pick up on our ship's sensors.
SPOCK: Nor do our sensors register the life forms inside.
KIRK: Could it be exerting a force field of some kind that cuts into our sensor scan.
MCCOY: Then it would affect Spock's tricorder too, wouldn't it? KIRK; Would it? I wonder.

[Castle]
MCCOY: Three witches, what appears to be a castle and a black cat.
KIRK: If we weren't missing two officers and a third one dead I'd say someone was playing an elaborate trick or treat on us.
SPOCK: Trick or treat, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. You'd be a natural. I'll explain it to you one day. Shall we have a look around?
SPOCK: That would seem to be in order.
KIRK: Bones. Spock.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: They're gone, Mister DeSalle. The captain and the others simply stopped registering.
DESALLE: Check for malfunctions.
CHEKOV: I did, sir, as soon as it happened.
UHURA: Mister DeSalle, that's exactly what happened to Mister Scott and his party. They, they just disappeared.
DESALLE: Nobody just disappears. They may have encountered a magnetic field or some other obstruction. Mister Chekov, recalibrate your sensors. If you need help
CHEKOV: I can do it, sir. I'm not that green.
DESALLE: Lieutenant Uhura, continue in your efforts to break through that static interference.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
DESALLE: We know they're down there. I want them found.

[Castle]
KIRK: Straight ahead, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: The readings would so indicate.
MCCOY: Dust, cobwebs. Halloween is right.

[Dungeon]
KIRK: Spock. Are you all right?
SPOCK: Yes. I am undamaged, Captain.
KIRK: Bones? Doc?
MCCOY: You were saying something about trick or treat.
KIRK: Dungeons, curses, skeletons and iron maidens. They're all Earth manifestations. Why?
SPOCK: I do not know, Captain, but these things do exist. They are real.
MCCOY: Could this be an Earth parallel development of some sort?
KIRK: None of this parallels any human development. It's more like a human nightmare.
SPOCK: As if someone knew what it was that terrifies man most on an instinctive level.
KIRK: Ghost stories, ogres, demons. The whole
KIRK: Scotty, Sulu. Scotty. Put down the phaser. Scotty!
MCCOY: They appear to be drugged, Jim. Look at their eyes. Hardly blink at all.
SPOCK: Neither did Jackson just before he collapsed.
KIRK: These two are alive. Scotty, do you hear me? Sulu, do you know who I am? What's happened to you?
MCCOY: They're going to release us.

[Drawing room]
KOROB: Stop!
KIRK: Whoever you are, you've proven your skill at creating illusion. Now I want to know why and what you've done to my men.
KOROB: Where did your race get this ridiculous predilection for resistance? You examine any object, you question everything. Is it not enough to accept what is?
KIRK: Not when one of my men is dead because of it and two others turned into mindless
KOROB: NO, not mindless. These two are merely controlled, Captain Kirk. Oh, yes, we know who you are. All of you. Don't we, my precious?
KIRK: Who are you? Why did you bring us here?
KOROB: My name is Korob. And as for bringing you here, it was you who quite contrarily insisted upon coming. You were warned to stay away.
KIRK: Why? For what reason? Why all the mumbo-jumbo?
KOROB: Mumbo-jumbo? Oh! Oh, no, I assure you it was not that, Captain.
SPOCK: Mapping expeditions have charted this solar system before. There never have been any life forms on Pyris Seven.
KOROB: It is of no importance that we are not native to this planet. Oh! I'm told that I've been an inattentive host, gentlemen. You will join me for something to refresh yourselves.
MCCOY: That cat.
KIRK: That cat.
SPOCK: There are ancient Earth legends about wizards and their familiars.
MCCOY: Familiars?
SPOCK: Demons in animal forms sent by Satan to serve the wizard.
KIRK: Superstition.
SPOCK: I do not create the legend, Captain. I merely report it.
KOROB: You are the different one, Mister Spock. You do not think like the others. There are no colors to your patterns of logic. There's only black and white. You see all this around you, yet you do not believe.
MCCOY: He doesn't know about trick or treat.
KOROB: I do not understand that reference, therefore it also is of no importance. Gentlemen, I can be most hospitable.
SPOCK: Ingenious.
KOROB: Do be seated.
MCCOY: We're not hungry.
KOROB: But I insist.
KIRK: All right, Korob. What do you want from us?
KOROB: For the moment, merely that you eat and enjoy. Oh, Doctor, do try the wine. You'll find it excellent.
KIRK: You'll find us most unco-operative unless you start explaining yourself.
KOROB: Hopefully I can change that attitude.
MCCOY: These look real.
KOROB: They are, I assure you. Diamonds, rubies, emeralds, sapphires. All the crystalline forms that you cherish above all things. A fortune of them for each of you if you leave here without further inquiry.
KIRK: We could manufacture a ton of these on our ship. They mean nothing to us.
KOROB: Valueless? I don't understand. I read
KIRK: Whatever it is you read, you read it wrong. As for leaving, we'll leave when we're ready.
KOROB: You are most unpredictable. Perhaps I have made a small mistake. Nevertheless, you have passed the tests.
MCCOY: Tests?
KOROB: Yes. Our analysis of you may have been in some small way in error, but you were warned to stay away and yet you came to save your comrades. That proves loyalty. Your bravery was tested and you did not frighten. And despite my failure with these bright baubles, I perceive that you cannot be bribed. In many ways you are quite admirable. Quite right. Go at once, yes.
KOROB: Gentlemen, my colleague. Sylvia.
SYLVIA: Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock and Captain Kirk. You wanted to know what we did to your men. Actually it's a simple matter for us to probe the minds of creatures like yourself.
SPOCK: Mind probing? Hypnosis?
SYLVIA: You like to think of yourselves as complex creatures, but you're flawed. One gains admittance to your minds through many levels. You have too many to keep track of yourselves. There are unguarded entrances to any human mind.
SPOCK: Telepathy?
SPOCK: Not entirely, no. Telepathy doesn't imply control and I assure you that I have full control over your friends.
KIRK: Don't move! Cover them. Now, I want the rest of our weapons and our equipment. I want some answers.
SYLVIA: Put that weapon down! Captain, it seems so foolish of you to insist on demonstrations. In the mythology of your race this is called sympathetic magic. Jackson, the crew member who returned to the ship. You wondered what killed him. I made an image of him. In the essence of my thoughts the image was Jackson. And when I killed the image and knew that it was dead, he died.
KIRK: You can't think a man to death.
SYLVIA: Your communicator. Now, signal your ship.
KOROB: Don't. Sylvia, don't.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Come in.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Enterprise. From Captain Kirk. Come in.
UHURA: Captain, are you all right? Where are you? Are the others all right, sir?

[Drawing room]
KIRK: Never mind about us. What's happening up there?

[Bridge]
DESALLE: The temperature, sir. It keeps rising. Reading, Mister.
CHEKOV: It's up sixty degrees in the past thirty seconds. We're burning up, sir.

[Drawing room]
KIRK: DeSalle, channel bypass power into your heat dissipation units.
DESALLE (voiceover): We've already done it, Captain. It had no effect. We're cooking up here.
KIRK: All right. I'll handle it down here. Kirk out. You've won.
SYLVIA: You can relax now, Captain. Your ship is safe.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Temperature is almost back to normal, dropping down fast.
DESALLE: Lieutenant, try to raise the captain again.
UHURA: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, please. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Acknowledge. We've lost him again, Mister DeSalle.

[Drawing room]
KOROB: Captain, you've seen something of our science. Now tell us about yours.
KIRK: You seem to be singing a different tune. I'd rather know more about yours. You call it magic, you call it science. It seems unrelated to both of them.
KOROB: What would you name it, Captain?
KIRK: I wouldn't attempt to name it, but you seem to do with your mind what we do with tools. You alter matter, move it about by telekinesis.
KOROB: Yes, we can change the molecular structure
SYLVIA: Korob, you talk too much.
MCCOY: You kept Scott and Sulu as catspaws to lure us down here. How'd you know we'd come?
KOROB: Oh, we didn't have to know. They knew.
SYLVIA: Enough of this! You will tell us what we want to know.
KIRK: It's too late for threats. You let me contact the ship. How long do you think it will it be before a search party arrives?
KOROB: Some time, Captain. Quite some time.
KOROB: There will be no search party, Captain Kirk. An impenetrable force field around your ship, Captain. It will not hinder orbit, but your people are prisoners within it.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: It's some kind of a force field, sir, but not like any other I've ever heard of before. It's not coming from anywhere. It's simply all around us.

[Drawing room]
SYLVIA: I would advise you to co-operate, Captain. Forcible extraction of the information we wish from you is not complicated, but it is extremely painful and it has a certain draining effect.
KIRK: We have nothing to diskuss.
KOROB: Take them to their cell.
SYLVIA: Wait. The doctor will stay. Your turn will be next, Captain. It makes little difference. Take them out of here.

[Bridge]
DESALLE: Wave length analysis, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: It will not analyze, sir.
DESALLE: All right, but it's there and it's real. If it's real, it can be affected. Engineering, stand by to divert all power systems to the outer hull. Prepare impulse engines for generation of maximum heat directed as ordered. Maybe we can't break it, but I'll bet you credits to navy beans we can put a dent in it.

[Dungeon]
KIRK: How long has it been?
SPOCK: Twenty two minutes, seventeen seconds.
KIRK: Thanks. I wonder what they're doing to Doc.
SPOCK: I'm sure we'll find out shortly. Jim, all of these things that we've seen. To an Earthman like yourself, they must seem quite familiar.
KIRK: Familiar. Startling. Not rational.
SPOCK: Precisely. I refer you to the psychological theory of the racial subconscious. The universal myths, symbols.
KIRK: Ghosts, witches.
SPOCK: And dungeons and castles and black cats. They all belong to the twilight world of consciousness.
KIRK: They tried to tap our conscious mind.
SPOCK: And they missed. They reached basically only the subconscious. Korob seemed puzzled by your reaction to the environment he'd provided.
KIRK: He expected me to react as though it were all normal. Well, he admitted that they weren't native to this planet.
SPOCK: And not to have a knowledge of our scientific methods is most unlikely for any life form we've met in this galaxy.
KIRK: They refer to us as creatures, as though we were some species that they were unfamiliar with. If we're creatures, I wonder what they're really like.
SPOCK: Evidently something totally alien in all respects.
KIRK: Agreed. Totally alien. And I don't like hostile strangers showing such an acute interest in our galaxy, our world, Spock. Not at all like friendly visitors. We're going to have to stop them, cold. But at the moment
SPOCK: I, too, am at a loss at this time to suggest a course of action.
KIRK: Oh, Bones. Doc.

[Drawing room]
KOROB: You forget what we were sent here for.
SYLVIA: I forget nothing. I'm not a puppet, Korob, like you.
KOROB: You're a traitor.
SYLVIA: You are a fool. We have nothing like this and I like it. To touch, to feel to understand the idea of luxury I like it. And I don't intend to leave it.
KOROB: We have a duty to the old ones.
SYLVIA: What do they know of sensations? This is a new world.
KOROB: You're cruel. You torture our specimens.
SYLVIA: And that, too, is a new sensation. I find it stimulating.
KOROB: You're wrong! You're diskarding everything we live by.
SYLVIA: I live by my own decisions. You're a weak fool, Korob.
KOROB: I have the power.
SYLVIA: But you're afraid to use it. Don't threaten me. I can squash you and that would be an interesting sensation, yes. I find I like these new sensations. Don't try to push me.
SYLVIA: Captain. It's time for our talk. Korob, leave us alone and take these men with you.
KOROB: This is not ended, Sylvia.
SYLVIA: But it may end soon, old man.
KIRK: What now? You wave your magic wand and destroy my mind, too?
SYLVIA: There's no real damage to the mind, Captain, simply a drain of knowledge and will.
KIRK: You don't call that damage?
SYLVIA: Why should I?
KIRK: You'd know if you had compassion. A woman should have compassion, but I forget you're not a woman.
SYLVIA: But you're mistaken, Captain. I am a woman now. I come from a world without sensation as you and I now know it. It excites me. I want more.
KIRK: You seem to need us. Why?
SYLVIA: Because you have knowledge which I lack. but were our abilities put together. Tell me about power, Captain. How does it feel?
KIRK: What about Korob?
SYLVIA: He is a fool. I'll do without him. But you? Why do I find you different? Why would it be so difficult to dispose of you?
KIRK: Why don't you simply probe my mind and get what you want?
SYLVIA: No, not that, not for you. What I want is a joining. My mind to yours willingly. Think of the secrets you could learn. Think of the power that would be yours. Anything you can imagine, I can give you.
KIRK: You're very persuasive. What happens if I go along?
SYLVIA: Then everything would be ours together. I've never conceived of the idea of togetherness before. It excites me. You excite me. Why?
KIRK: For the same reasons you excite me. You're a very beautiful woman.
SYLVIA: You find me beautiful? But I can be many women. You like what you see. or do you prefer me as I was?
KIRK: You have a knack for giving me difficult choices. You have nothing like that where you come from?
SYLVIA: Nothing.
KIRK: Your people, when they come here
SYLVIA: They're like, like feathers in the wind without the transmuter.
KIRK: Transmuter?
SYLVIA: The source. You will learn. I will teach you later. Later.
KIRK: Then it's a device. You do use tools.
SYLVIA: It gives only form. You're teaching me substance.
KIRK: You haven't changed your mind? You won't return home?
SYLVIA: My home is here with you. A billion worlds of sensation to pick and choose.
SYLVIA: You are using me. You hold me in your arms and there is no fire in your mind. You're trying to deceive me! It's here, like words on a page. You are using me.
KIRK: And why not? You've been using me and my crew.
SYLVIA: You will be swept away. You, your men, your ship, your worlds!

[Bridge]
UHURA: I don't see any change.
DESALLE: It's there, Lieutenant.
CHEKOV: It was that electrical field we set up, Mister DeSalle, that dent you wanted. It's not much, but it is a start.
DESALLE: Keep it up, Mister Chekov. Channel the entire output of reactors one, two, and three into the relay stations. Whatever it is, it's starting to weaken.

[Dungeon]
KOROB: I've released the model of your ship from the crystal, although they would have freed themselves soon. It's difficult to control so many things in so little time. Here. You must go before she finds the weapon is missing.
KIRK: I'm not leaving without my men.
KOROB: They're not your men anymore. They belong to Sylvia. I can no longer control them or her. She's irrational. The strain of adopting to your form, the insatiable desire for sensation and experience. She's a great danger and it was not necessary. We could have entered your galaxy in peace.
SPOCK: You came in a ship?
KOROB: We used the transmuter.
KIRK: Transmuter. Yes, she mentioned that.
KOROB: There's no time to explain now. She means to destroy us all. There might still be a chance. Quickly. Come.

[Castle]
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Why a cat?
SPOCK: Racial memories. The cat is the most ruthless, most terrifying of animals, as far back as the saber-toothed tiger.
KOROB: I think I can stop her.
KIRK: You'd better let us. It's out of energy. She must have drained it. We could have jumped Scott and Sulu at any time. We didn't know. No way out.
KOROB: It's my problem. She's one of my kind. Come quickly.

[Dungeon]
KIRK: Do you think you can make it?
SPOCK: Ready when you are, Captain.
KIRK: Get ready.
KOROB: No! Get back. Get back. Get back! Get back!
KIRK: Korob, that door won't last.
KOROB: Get back!
KOROB: Go. Go!
SPOCK: Quickly, Captain.
KIRK: Korob seemed to think this was important. Said something about a transmuter.
SPOCK: Captain, a bit more alacrity, if you please.

[Castle]
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Doc.
SPOCK: Jim!
KIRK: Well, at least we found them.
SPOCK: Fortuitous, Captain. And now that we have them all together? A most unpleasant situation, Captain. If only your phaser had some power.
KIRK: Maybe we do. Sylvia, I have the transmuter. It's mine now.
SYLVIA: You're very clever, Captain. More so than I'd imagined. Clever, resourceful and handsome.
SPOCK: Don't let her touch the wand, Captain.
SPOCK: Jim!

[Drawing room]
KIRK: Don't you get tired of these games?
SYLVIA: I've never played games. Give it to me.
KIRK: I wasn't sure before, but I am now. This is the source of your power, isn't it. The transmuter.
SYLVIA: No, not the source. It's merely an amplifier. The mind is the source. Mine is simple, but yours has the key but you don't know how to use it.
KIRK: I catch on quickly.
SYLVIA: It is not too late, Captain James Kirk. Come with me. I'll teach you. You'll teach me.
KIRK: Why? Because your people have nothing of your own? Is that why you need us?
SYLVIA: We need your dreams, your ambition. With them, I can build. Give me the transmuter.
KIRK: No.
SYLVIA: You fool. Don't you know what you're giving up? Everything that your species finds desirable. Look at me. I am a woman. I am all women.
KIRK: I don't know what you are but you're not a woman. You've tortured my men and taken their minds from them. You ask for love and return pain instead.
SYLVIA: Korob was wrong. I didn't destroy all your weapons. Give me the transmuter. Give it to me!

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: What happened, Jim?
KIRK: That'll take some explaining, Bones.
SCOTT: Everything's vanished.
KIRK: Not everything.
KIRK: Korob and Sylvia as they really are. Their forms were an illusion, just like the castle and everything else. Only the power pack gave them reality.
SPOCK: Fascinating. A life form totally alien to our galaxy. If we could preserve and study this
MCCOY: Too late. All of this, just an illusion.
KIRK: No illusion. Jackson is dead. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
UHURA (voiceover): Standing by, Captain.
KIRK: Five to beam up.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: We have reached projected point three, Captain. Adjust to new course two oh one mark one five.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: How is she, Doc?
MCCOY: No change.
NANCY: Small thanks to the Starfleet.
MCCOY: Now really, Commissioner, you can't blame the Starfleet.
NANCY: I should've received the proper inoculations ahead of time.
MCCOY: Sakuro's disease is extremely rare. The chances of anyone contracting it are literally billions to one.
NANCY: I was sent to Epsilon Canaris Three to prevent a war, Doctor. Thanks to the inefficiency of the medical branch of the Starfleet, I've been forced to leave before my job was done.
KIRK: Commissioner, I can assure you that once we reach the Enterprise, with its medical facilities, we'll have you back to your job in time for you to prevent that war.
NANCY: How soon will we rendezvous with that ship of yours, Captain?
KIRK: In exactly four hours, twenty one minutes, Commissioner.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Yes?
SPOCK: Will you check your automatic scanner, please?
KIRK: That's odd. I've never seen anything like that before.
SPOCK: Nor have I.
SPOCK: Heading directly toward us at warp speed.
KIRK: Staying right with us. Sensor readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Vaguely like a cloud of ionized hydrogen, but with strong erratic electrical impulses.
KIRK: We've got it.
SPOCK: Helm does not answer, Captain.
KIRK: Neither do the pods. Communications are dead. Building overload. Cut all power relays.
SPOCK: Cut, Captain.
NANCY: What's happening? I demand to know.
KIRK: You already know as much as we do, Miss Hedford. Whatever that thing is outside, it's yanked us off course from the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Now on course nine eight mark one two, heading directly toward Gamma Canaris region.
MCCOY: Jim, we've got to get Miss Hedford to the Enterprise. Her condition.
KIRK: I know, Bones, but there's nothing I can do about it.
NANCY: I insist you make your scheduled rendezvous with the Enterprise.
KIRK: Miss Hedford, we'll do what we can, when we can. At the moment, we're helpless. You might as well sit back and enjoy the ride.

[Shuttlecraft]
KIRK: Enterprise, this is the Galileo. Come in, please, come in. Enterprise, this is the Galileo. Come in, please. It's no good. We're not transmitting. Bones?
MCCOY: Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere. Some krypton, argon, neon. Temperature seventy five degrees Fahrenheit. Practically identical to Earth atmosphere.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Gravity is similar to Earth. Most unusual in view of its size. The bulk of the body seems to be iron and nickel. More than an asteroid. Like a small planetoid, I should say. Possibly a remnant of a planet breakup. Totally suitable for human life.
KIRK: All right, we get out and get up. Issue phasers. Bones, maintain full alert. Commissioner, you'll stay inside.
NANCY: Just how long am I supposed to stay inside, Captain?
KIRK: That's a very good question. I wish I could answer it. All right. Let's go.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Take a look around, Bones.
SPOCK: Most unusual. Unlikely. In fact, Captain, I would say quite impossible.
KIRK: Nothing wrong and nothing works.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: There must be a reason.
SPOCK: Obviously.
KIRK: Let's look a little further.
MCCOY: Jim, I just took a tricording sweep, and I got the same readings almost as Spock got when we were pulled off course.
SPOCK: The ionized cloud.
MCCOY: I think so, only it reads here on the surface with us. It's in that direction, and it doesn't read solid. It's more unstable, tenuous, like a collection of gasses.
COCHRANE (voiceover): Hello! Hello!
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Bones, get a physiological reading on that, whatever it is.
COCHRANE: Hello! Are you real? I mean, I'm not imagining you, am I?
KIRK: We're real enough.
COCHRANE: You speak English. Earth people?
KIRK: From the Federation.
COCHRANE: The F? Well, it doesn't matter. I'm Cochrane. I've been marooned here who knows how long. If you only knew how good it is to see you. And a woman. A beautiful one at that.
KIRK: I'm Captain James T. Kirk, commanding the starship Enterprise. This is my first officer Mister Spock.
COCHRANE: You're a Vulcan, aren't you?
SPOCK: Correct.
KIRK: Chief Surgeon Leonard McCoy.
COCHRANE: Doctor.
MCCOY: Pleasure.
KIRK: Oh, and excuse me, Assistant Federation Commissioner Hedford.
COCHRANE: Ma'am. You're food to a starving man. All of you. Hey, that's a nice ship. Simple and clean. Been trying to get her to go again? Well, forget it. It won't work.
MCCOY: He's human, Jim. Everything checks out perfectly.
KIRK: Mister Cochrane. We were forced off our course and taken here by some force we couldn't identify.
SPOCK: Which seems to be on the surface of this body at the moment.
COCHRANE: Well, I wouldn't know anything about that.
SPOCK: You say we'll be unable to get the ship to function again?
COCHRANE: Not a chance. There's some sort of dampening field down here. Power systems don't work. Take my word for it.
SPOCK: You don't mind if we continue to try?
COCHRANE: Go right ahead. You've got plenty of time.
KIRK: What about you, Cochrane? How did you get here?
COCHRANE: Marooned, I told you. Look, we'll have lots of time to learn about each other. I have a small place over that way. All the comforts of home. I can even offer you a hot bath.
NANCY: How perceptive of you to notice I needed one.
KIRK: If you don't mind, Mister Cochrane, I'd like more than just a statement that you were marooned here. It's a long way off the beaten path.
COCHRANE: That's right. That's why I'm so glad to see you. Look, I'll tell you everything you want to know, but not here. Your ship is sure a beauty.
KIRK: Yes, she is. And you've been out of circulation quite a while. The principles may be new to you. Mister Spock, why don't you explain our methods of propulsion to Mister Cochrane?
MCCOY: Talks a lot, but he doesn't say much.
KIRK: I've noticed something else.
MCCOY: What's that?
KIRK: He looks familiar.
MCCOY: Familiar? Now that you mention it, he does.
KIRK: I can't quite place him, but. What about Miss Hedford?
MCCOY: No temperature yet, but we've got to get under way soon, Jim. I guarantee you, it will develop. What are we going to do?
KIRK: Take Cochrane up on his offer.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
SPOCK: You built this, Mister Cochrane?
COCHRANE: Yes. I had tools and supplies left over from my crash.
SPOCK: Not bad.
COCHRANE: Not Earth, but it's livable. I grow vegetables in the fields over that next ridge. Come on in.

[Cochrane's home]
KIRK: All the comforts of home indeed, Mister Cochrane. Where'd you get the antiques?
COCHRANE: You mean my instruments? I imagine things have changed a lot since I crashed.
KIRK: Not that much.
NANCY: Must you keep it so terribly hot in here?
COCHRANE: The temperature's a constant seventy two degrees. Let me get you something cool to drink.
MCCOY: Do you feel hot?
NANCY: I feel infuriated, deeply put upon, and absolutely outraged.
MCCOY: It was quite a hike here. You're tired. Just take it easy for a while.
NANCY: I'll rest later, Doctor.
MCCOY: Temperature, Captain. First sign.
KIRK: Yes, I know. It means we're running out of time.
SPOCK: Captain, Doctor.
KIRK: What was that?
COCHRANE: Well, sometimes the light plays tricks on you. You'd be surprised what I've imagined I've seen around here sometimes.
SPOCK: We imagined nothing, Mister Cochrane. There was an entity out there and I suspect it was the same entity which brought us here. Please explain.
COCHRANE: There's nothing to explain.
NANCY: Thank you.
KIRK: You'll find I have a very low tolerance level where the safety of my people are concerned. We find you out here, where no human has any business being. We were virtually hijacked in space and brought here. Now I'm not just requesting an explanation, Mister. I'm demanding one.
COCHRANE: All right. It was the Companion.
KIRK: The what?
COCHRANE: That's what I call it. As a matter of fact, Captain, I didn't crash here. I was brought here in my disabled ship. I was almost dead. The Companion saved my life.
SPOCK: You were injured?
COCHRANE: I was dying, Mister Spock.
KIRK: You seem perfectly all right now. What was the matter?
COCHRANE: I was an old man.
KIRK: You were what?
COCHRANE: Well, I don't know how it did it, but the Companion rejuvenated me, made me young again, like I am now.
SPOCK: I prefer to reserve judgment on that part of your story, sir. Meanwhile, would you please explain exactly what this Companion of yours is?
COCHRANE: I told you, I don't know what it is. It exists, it lives, and I can communicate with it.
MCCOY: That's a pretty far out story.
KIRK: Mister Cochrane, do you have a first name?
COCHRANE: Zefram.
KIRK: Zefram Cochrane of Alpha Centuri, the diskoverer of the space warp?
COCHRANE: That's right, Captain.
MCCOY: But that's impossible. Zefram Cochrane died a hundred and fifty years ago.
SPOCK: The name of Zefram Cochrane is revered throughout the known galaxy. Planets were named after him. Great universities, cities.
KIRK: Isn't your story a little improbable, Mister Cochrane?
COCHRANE: No, it's true. I was eighty seven years old when I came here.
KIRK: You say this Companion found you and rejuvenated you? What were you doing in space at the age of eighty seven?
COCHRANE: I was tired, Captain. I was going to die, and I wanted to die in space. That's all.
SPOCK: True, his body was never found.
COCHRANE: You're looking at it, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: If so, you wear your age very well.
MCCOY: How do you feel?
NANCY: Terrible. How should I feel?
MCCOY: You're running a little temperature. Perhaps you should lie down.
NANCY: Doctor, will you please just leave me alone. It's the heat.
MCCOY: All right. Try to relax. Jim, it's started, the fever. It's over a hundred, and it's climbing.
KIRK: How long do we have?
MCCOY: A matter of hours, that's all.
KIRK: Mister Cochrane, you say you were brought here a hundred and fifty years ago? You don't look over thirty five.
COCHRANE: I haven't aged. The Companion sees to that.
SPOCK: Captain. These instruments, they date from the time indicated. From your ship, Mister Cochrane?
COCHRANE: I cannibalized it. The food, water, gardens, everything else I need the Companion gives me. Apparently, it creates it out of the native elements.
KIRK: You say you can communicate with it. Perhaps you can find out what we're doing here.
COCHRANE: I already know.
KIRK: You wouldn't mind telling us?
COCHRANE: You won't like it.
KIRK: I already don't like it.
COCHRANE: You're here to keep me company.
KIRK: You mean you brought us here?
COCHRANE: No, the Companion did. I told it I'd die of loneliness. I thought it would release me. Instead, it brought you here.
NANCY: No! No! No! That's disgusting! We're not animals! No! Oh, no! It's inhuman! No! No!
KIRK: Spock, run additional tricorder readings. Learn anything you can. Find me a weapon to use against this thing.
SPOCK: You ask me to find a weapon. Do you intend to destroy it?
KIRK: I intend to do whatever's necessary to get us off this planet and Commissioner Hedford to the hospital. If the Companion stands in the way, then we push it out of the way. Clear, Spock?
SPOCK: Quite clear, Captain.
KIRK: Very well. You have your orders. Mister Cochrane, if you left here, what would happen to you?
COCHRANE: I'd begin to age again, normally.
KIRK: Do you want to leave here?
COCHRANE: Believe me, Captain, immortality consists largely of boredom. What's it like out there in the galaxy?
KIRK: We're on a thousand planets and spreading out. We cross fantastic distances and everything's alive, Cochrane. Life everywhere. We estimate there are millions of planets with intelligent life. We haven't begun to map them. Interesting?
COCHRANE: How would you like to sleep for a hundred and fifty years and wake up in a new world?
KIRK: It's all out there waiting for you, but we'll need your help to get away.
COCHRANE: You've got it.

[Cochrane's home]
KIRK: You seem to think this Companion of yours can do almost anything.
COCHRANE: I said it was very powerful.
KIRK: Could it cure her?
COCHRANE: I don't know.
KIRK: How do you communicate with it?
COCHRANE: It's on a non-verbal level, but I usually get my message across.
KIRK: We've got to try. We're helpless. See if it can do something.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: How do you do it?
COCHRANE: I just sort of clear my mind and it comes.
KIRK: Bones, what do you make of that?
MCCOY: Almost a symbiosis of some kind, a sort of joining.
KIRK: Exactly what I think. Not exactly like a pet owner speaking to a beloved animal, would you say?
MCCOY: No, it's more than that.
KIRK: Agreed. More like love.
MCCOY: Are you all right?
COCHRANE: Yes. It kind of drains me a little, but I'm all right.
KIRK: Well?
COCHRANE: The Companion can't do anything to help Miss Hedford.
KIRK: Then she'll die.
COCHRANE: If there's anything I could do to help, I would, and I will, but we can expect nothing from the Companion.

[Outside the shuttlecraft]
MCCOY: Spock! Are you all right?
SPOCK: Yes. Quite all right, Doctor. A most fascinating thing happened. Apparently, the Companion imparted to me a rather quaint, old-fashioned electric shock of respectable voltage.
MCCOY: It attacked you?
SPOCK: Evidently. Unquestionably, a large part of its substance is simple electricity.
MCCOY: Oh, yes. I'm not a scientist or a physicist, Mister Spock, but am I correct in assuming that anything that generates electricity can be shorted out?
SPOCK: Quite correct, Doctor.

[Cochrane's home]
SPOCK: Put this in the proximity of the Companion, throw this switch, and it will scramble every electrical impulse the creature can produce. It cannot fail.
KIRK: It troubles you, Cochrane?
COCHRANE: The Companion saved my life. It's taken care of me all these years. We've been very close in a way that's hard to explain. I suppose I even have an affection for it.
KIRK: It's also keeping you prisoner.
COCHRANE: I don't want it killed.
SPOCK: We may simply render it powerless.
COCHRANE: But you don't know. You could kill it. I won't stand for that.
KIRK: We're getting out of here, Cochrane. Face up to it. I'll do anything I have to to save all of our lives.
COCHRANE: I suppose from your point of view, you're right.
MCCOY: We understand how you feel, Mister Cochrane, but it has to be done.
COCHRANE: All right. You want me to contact it?
KIRK: Please. Outside.
COCHRANE: What was it they used to call it? The Judas goat?
SPOCK: There is some risk, Captain. We do not know the extent of its powers.
KIRK: Nor it ours.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Now.

[Cochrane's home]
MCCOY: Stop it! You're killing them! Stop it, please! Stop it! You're choking them! Let them go. You're choking them! Stop it!
MCCOY: You all right, Jim?
KIRK: Yeah.
MCCOY: Spock?
SPOCK: All right.
KIRK: Cochrane got it off of us, but I don't know whether he did us a favor or not.
MCCOY: What kind of talk is that?
KIRK: How do you fight a thing like that? I've got a ship up there somewhere, responsibility for four lives here, one of them dying because of me.
MCCOY: It isn't your fault.
KIRK: I'm in command, Bones. It makes it my fault. How do you fight a thing like that?
MCCOY: Maybe you're a soldier so often that you forget you're also trained to be a diplomat. Why not try a carrot instead of a stick?
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: The universal translator on the shuttlecraft. We can try that, talk to that thing.
SPOCK: The translator is for use with more congruent life forms.
KIRK: Adjust it, change it. The trouble with immortality is it's boring. Adjusting the translator will give you something to do.
SPOCK: It is possible. If I could widen its pattern of reception
KIRK: Right down your alley, Spock. Get it here and get to work. That thing is still out there. Better go that way.
KIRK: Any change?
MCCOY: Yes, for the worse. Ship's Log. Stardate 3219.8. Lieutenant Commander Scott recording in the absence of Captain Kirk. A shuttlecraft bearing the Captain, the first officer, Chief Surgeon McCoy, and Assistant Federation Commissioner Hedford is now definitely overdue for a rendezvous with the Enterprise. We are attempting to backtrack it.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Scott. Computer central reports that we're coming up on the co-ordinates of the last established position of the shuttlecraft.
SCOTT: Thank you, Lieutenant.
SULU: Steady. No, Mister Scott, bearing three ten mark thirty five just cleared. No antimatter residue.
SCOTT: All scanners, spherical sweep. Range, maximum. They'll have to pick it up.
UHURA: If the shuttlecraft powered away, Mister Scott, but if it were just towed?
SCOTT: There'd still be traces of residual matter floating around, Lieutenant.
SULU: Bearing two ten mark forty. Strong particle concentration. We're on it, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Lay on that course. Maintain scanning.
SULU: Course laid in, sir. Particle density decreasing. Gone, sir. No readings.
SCOTT: Steady as she goes, Mister Sulu.
UHURA: What do you think it means, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: The shuttlecraft was on schedule until it was shy five hours of rendezvous. Then something happened.
UHURA: Well, I'd feel a lot better if it were a little more definite.
SCOTT: It didn't wreck. There was no debris. There's no trace of expelled internal atmosphere, no residual radioactivity. Ah, it's. Something took over. Tractor beams maybe. Something. They dragged it away on the heading we're now on.
UHURA: If there are no further traces, how are we going to follow them?
SCOTT: We stay on this course, see what comes up.
UHURA: It's a big galaxy, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye.

[Cochrane's home]
COCHRANE: What's the theory behind this device?
KIRK: There are certain universal ideas and concepts common to all intelligent life. This device instantaneously compares the frequency of brainwave patterns, selects those ideas and concepts it recognizes, and then provides the necessary grammar.
SPOCK: Then it translates its findings into English.
COCHRANE: You mean it speaks?
KIRK: With a voice or the approximation of whatever the creature is on the sending end. Not one hundred percent efficient, but nothing ever is. Ready, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Quite ready, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Cochrane, call the Companion.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Companion. We wish to talk to you.
COMPANION: How can we communicate? My thoughts, you are hearing them. This is interesting.
KIRK: Feminine. No doubt about it.
SPOCK: Yes. The matter of gender could change the entire situation.
KIRK: I'm way ahead of you.
SPOCK: Then it is not a zookeeper.
KIRK: No. A lover. Companion. It is wrong to keep us here against our will.
COMPANION: A man needs the company of his own kind, or he will cease to exist. He felt it to me.
KIRK: One of us will cease to exist if we don't get her to a place where we can care for her.
COMPANION: The man needs others of his species. That is why you are here. The man must continue.
KIRK: Companion, try to understand. It is the nature of our species to be free, just as it is your nature to stay here. We will cease to exist in captivity.
COMPANION: Your bodies have stopped their peculiar degeneration. There will be nothing to harm you. You will continue, and the man will continue. This is necessary.
SPOCK: This is a marvelous opportunity to add to our knowledge. Ask it about its nature, its history.
KIRK: This isn't a classroom. I'm trying to get us out of here.
SPOCK: A chance like this may never come again. It could tell us so much.
KIRK: This isn't the time. Companion, what you offer us is not continuation. It is non=existence. We will cease to exist. Even the man will cease to exist.
COMPANION: Your impulses are illogical. This communication is useless. The man must continue. Therefore, you will continue. It is necessary.

[Cochrane's home]
COCHRANE: Captain, why did you build that translator with a feminine voice?
KIRK: We didn't.
COCHRANE: But I heard
KIRK: The idea of male and female are universal constants, Cochrane. There's no doubt about it. The Companion is female.
COCHRANE: I don't understand.
MCCOY: You don't? A blind man could see it with a cane. You're not a pet. You're not a specimen kept in a cage. You're a lover.
COCHRANE: I'm a what?
SPOCK: Her attitude when she approaches you is profoundly different than when she contacts us. Her appearance is soft, gentle. Her voice is melodic, pleasing. I do not totally understand the emotion, but it obviously exists. The Companion loves you.
COCHRANE: Do you know what you're saying? For all these years, I've let something as alien as that crawl around inside me, into my mind, my feelings.
KIRK: What are you complaining about? It kept you alive.
COCHRANE: That thing fed on me. It used me. It's disgusting.
MCCOY: There's nothing disgusting about it. It's just another life form, that's all. You get used to those things.
COCHRANE: You're as bad as it is.
SPOCK: Your highly emotional reaction is most illogical. Your relationship with the Companion has for one hundred and fifty years been emotionally satisfying, eminently practical, and totally harmless. It may indeed have been quite beneficial.
COCHRANE: Is this what the future holds? Men who have no notion of decency or morality? Maybe I'm a hundred and fifty years out of style, but I'm not going to be fodder for any inhuman monster.
SPOCK: Fascinating. A totally parochial attitude.
NANCY: Doctor. Doctor.
MCCOY: Right here, Miss Hedford.
NANCY: I heard him. He was loved and he resents it.
MCCOY: You just rest.
NANCY: No. I don't want to die. I've been good at my job, but I've never been loved. Never. What kind of life is that? Not to be loved, never to have shown love? And he runs away from love. Ship's log, stardate 3220.3. Lieutenant Commander Scott reporting in lieu of the Captain and the first officer. We are continuing our search for the missing shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
SULU: Approaching what seems to be an asteroid belt, sir. Scanners report approximately seven thousand bodies of sizes running from types A to N.
SCOTT: Atmosphere count?
SULU: Approximately thirty four percent of the bodies of atmospherian types H to M.
SCOTT: All right, then. We'll do it the hard way. All sensors set for life form registration. Automatic selection.
UHURA: Mister Scott, there are thousands of them out there they could be on, if they're on any of them at all.
SCOTT: That's right, Lieutenant. Thousands. And we'll look them over one by one.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Companion, do you love the man?
COMPANION: I do not understand.
KIRK: Is he important to you, more important than anything? Is he as though he were a part of you?
COMPANION: He is part of me. The man must continue.
KIRK: He will not continue. He will cease to exist. By your feeling for him, you are condemning him to an existence he will find unbearable. He will cease to exist.
COMPANION: He does not age. He remains forever.
KIRK: You speak of his body. I speak of his spirit. Companion, inside the shelter, a female of our species is dying. She will not continue. That is what will happen to the man unless you release all of us.
COMPANION: I do not understand.
KIRK: Our species can only survive if we have obstacles to overcome. You take away all obstacles. Without them to strengthen us, we will weaken and die. You regard the man only as a toy. You amuse yourself with him.
COMPANION: You are wrong. The man is the center of all things. I care for him.
KIRK: But you can't really love him. You haven't the slightest knowledge of love, the total union of two people. You are the Companion. He is the man. You are two different things. You can't join. You can't love. You may keep him here forever, but you will always be separate, apart from him.
COMPANION: If I were human there can be love?
MCCOY: What did you hope to gain by that, Jim?
KIRK: Try to convince her of the hopelessness of it. Love sometimes expresses itself in sacrifice. I thought maybe if she loved him, she'd let him go.
SPOCK: But she or it is inhuman, Captain. You cannot expect her to react like a human.
KIRK: I tried.
COCHRANE: It's useless. I know.
NANCY: Zefram Cochrane.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: I don't understand it. She's not sick at all.
NANCY: We understand.
COCHRANE: It's her.
KIRK: What?
COCHRANE: Don't you understand? It's the Companion.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: She's perfectly healthy. Heart like a hammer, respiration normal, blood pressure normal. This is medically impossible.
NANCY: We are here.
KIRK: We?
NANCY: Both of us. Those you knew as the Commissioner and the Companion. We are both here.
SPOCK: Companion, you do not have the power to create life.
NANCY: That is for the Maker of all things.
SPOCK: Commissioner Hedford was dying.
NANCY: That part of us was too weak to hold on. In a moment, there would have been no continuing. Now we're together.
SPOCK: Then you are both here, in the one body?
NANCY: We are one.
NANCY: Zefram, we frighten you. We've never frightened you before. Loneliness. This is loneliness. Oh, what a bitter thing. Oh, Zefram, it's so sad. How do you bear it, this loneliness?
KIRK: Spock, check out the shuttlecraft. Engine, communications, everything.
NANCY: That will not be necessary, Captain. Your vehicle will operate as before, so will the communications device.
COCHRANE: You're letting us go?
NANCY: We could do nothing now to stop you. You said we would not know love because we were not human. Now we are human. We'll know the change of days. We will know death. But to touch the hand of man, nothing is as important.
COCHRANE: You're very beautiful.
NANCY: Part of me understands. Part does not. But it pleases me.
COCHRANE: I could explain many things.
NANCY: Oh, let me walk, Zefram. Let me feel the earth against my feet. Let me feel the warmth of the sun on my face. You beside me. Let me feel these things.
KIRK: Go ahead, Cochrane We have a few things to do.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Scott, it's the Captain.
SCOTT: Put him on. Lock on to his co-ordinates. Captain, this is Scotty. Are you all right?

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Perfectly all right. Can you get a fix on us.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The helm is computing your position now, Captain.
SULU: Course two twenty four mark twelve. ETA fifty seven minutes.
SCOTT: We'll be there in 57 minutes, sir.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Very good. I'll continue transmitting. Assume standard orbit when you arrive. We'll transport up in the shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: What happened, Captain?

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Interesting story, Scotty. I can't tell you now because, quite frankly, I don't know how it's going to end. Kirk out.
COCHRANE: Everything will be an eye-opener to you. There's a thousand planets out there, a thousand races, and I'll show everything to you, soon as I learn my way around again. Maybe I can make up a little for everything you've done for me.
NANCY: I can't go with you, Zefram.
COCHRANE: Of course you can. You have to.
NANCY: My life emanates from this place. If I should leave it for more than a tiny march of days, I'll cease to exist. I must return, even as you must consume matter to maintain your life.
COCHRANE: You gave up everything to be human? But even if you stay here, you'll eventually die.
NANCY: The joy of this hour. I am pleased.
COCHRANE: Well, I can't just fly away and leave you here.
NANCY: You must be free, Zefram Cochrane.
COCHRANE: You saved my life, took care of me. You loved me. I never understood. I do now.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're locked in, Captain. Standard orbit established. Shuttlecraft bay standing by to receive you.

[Outside Cochrane's home]
KIRK: Stand by, Scotty.
KIRK: The Enterprise is waiting, Mister Cochrane.
COCHRANE: I can't take her away from here. If I do, she'll die. If I leave her, she'll die of loneliness. I owe everything to her. I can't leave her. I love her. Is that surprising?
SPOCK: Not coming from a human being. You are, after all, essentially irrational.
KIRK: Think it over, Mister Cochrane. There's a whole galaxy out there waiting to honor you.
COCHRANE: I have honors enough.
SPOCK: But you will age, both of you. There will be no immortality. You'll both grow old here and finally die.
COCHRANE: That's been happening to men and women for a long time. I've got the feeling it's one of the pleasanter things about being human, as long as you grow old together.
KIRK: Are you sure?
COCHRANE: There's plenty of water here. The climate's good for growing things. I might try to plant a fig tree. A man's entitled to that, isn't he? It isn't gratitude, Captain. Now that I see her, touch her, I know that I love her. We'll have a lot of years together. They'll be happy ones.
KIRK: All the best.
COCHRANE: Captain, don't tell them about me.
KIRK: Not a word, Mister Cochrane.
MCCOY: Jim, what about that war on Epsilon Canaris Three?
KIRK: Well, I'm sure the Federation can find another woman somewhere who'll stop that war.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: They're quite large. Seven feet tall is not unusual. They're extremely fast and strong. Lieutenant? Make no mistake. They can be highly dangerous. The Capellans' basic weapon, the kligat. At any distance up to a hundred yards, they can make it almost as effective against a man as a phaser.
MCCOY: In addition, an assortment of swords and knives.
UHURA: Call from the bridge, Captain.
SULU (voiceover): Bridge, Helm, sir.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Sulu. Report.
SULU (screen): Now in standard orbit, sir. I've pinpointed their encampment below.
KIRK: Very good. Have the transporter room stand by.
SULU (screen): Aye, sir.
SCOTT: How long were you stationed on the planet, Doctor?
MCCOY: Only a few months. We found them totally uninterested in medical aid or hospitals. They believe only the strong should survive.
KIRK: Analysis, gentlemen.
SPOCK: Ordinarily, under these circumstances, I would recommend a large, well-armed landing party.
KIRK: Yes, but in this case, with the more people we take down, the greater chance we have of violating one of their taboos.
MCCOY: Agreed. Once they've got it into their heads we're showing force, you can forget them signing any mining treaty.
KIRK: Very well. Scotty, you're in command. Bear in mind that the Klingons have been sighted in this sector. While we're negotiating down there, we don't want the Enterprise to become an incident up here.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. We'll keep on our toes.

[Settlement]
MAAB: Halt! You are of the Earth vessel?
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk.
MCCOY: We come with open hearts and hands.
GRANT: A Klingon!
KIRK: Grant, no!
MCCOY: Don't move a muscle.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3497.2. Planet Capella Four. The rare mineral topaline, vital to the life-support systems of planetoid colonies, has been diskovered in abundance here. Our mission, obtain a mining agreement. But we've diskovered a Klingon agent has preceded us to the planet. A diskovery which has cost the life of one of my crewmen.

[Settlement]
KRAS: I am unaware of any state of war between our peoples, Captain.
MCCOY: Jim!
KRAS: Or is it your policy to kill Klingons on sight?
KIRK: He was young, and inexperienced.
MCCOY: Does Maab know that the Klingons are our sworn enemies by their own words?
MAAB: We understand only that he also offers things of value for our rocks, and he has freely handed us his weapons and other devices. Will you do the same?
KIRK: Let me call my ship and inform them
KRAS: To bring down an attack upon their village? It is as I told you, Maab. Earthmen fear to bargain honestly.
MAAB: Will you hand us your weapons?

[Tent]
KIRK: So they keep their word scrupulously. They're unusually honest. Is that what I heard you say, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes, I mentioned that.
SPOCK: He also mentioned that they can be highly dangerous.
KIRK: Dangerous if lied to, if their customs are violated. We lied to no one, Doctor. We violated no customs. Perhaps you'll explain to me why one of my men is dead.
MCCOY: Because he was drawing a weapon on another of their guests.
KIRK: Grant looked up, saw a Klingon, made a purely instinctive defensive move. What's a Klingon doing down here among your scrupulously honest friends anyway?
MCCOY: Look, Jim. I know what it means to you to lose a crewman.
KIRK: That's only one down, Doctor. There's over four hundred more up there in orbit. And if there's a Klingon down here, there might be a Klingon ship up there somewhere.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Mister Scott. I'm picking up something on the sensors, sir. Seems to be another ship.
SCOTT: Well, let's put it on the screen.
CHEKOV: It's just at the edge of our sensor range, sir. Hard to get an exact reading.
SULU: You think it's a Klingon ship?
SCOTT: Who else would be playing cat and mouse with a starship? Well, they can't hurt us much out there, bobbing about like that. No need to call the captain yet.

[Tent]
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: I shouldn't have chewed you out. I'm sorry.
MCCOY: I understand.
SPOCK: Inefficient, however. Emotion, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, you're quite right, Mister Spock. Inefficient and illogical.
MCCOY: You've shown friendship by handing over our weapons. She's making a gesture in return.
MCCOY: Jim! You touch it, her nearest male relative will have to try to kill you. They're offering you a chance for combat. They consider it more pleasurable than love.
MAN: Chur-ah.
SPOCK: It would appear, Captain, that he finds you a disappointment.

[Teer's tent]
AKAAR: I am the teer Akaar. I lead the Ten Tribes of Capella.
AKAAR: And this is Eleen, a young wife to give an old man a son to rule these tribes.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk. First of all, I must protest the killing of my crewman.
AKAAR: If it was your man, wasn't it his privilege to die for you? I do not understand.
MAAB: Their customs are different, Teer.
KRAS: And different from those of my people, too, Teer. The sight of death frightens them.
MCCOY: Let me take this, Jim. What Maab has said is true. Our customs are different. What the Klingon has said is unimportant, and we do not hear his words. I just called the Klingon a liar.
MAAB: Laughter, Teer? Is not the Klingon an honored guest also?
AKAAR: It was the Earth people who first bargained for our rocks.
MAAB: Is it not best to have two who bargain for the same goods?
AKAAR: It is I who speak for the tribe, Maab.
MAAB: I speak for many, Teer. Hear the words of the Klingon.
KRAS: What do Earth men offer you? What have you obtained from them in the past? Powders and liquids for the sick? We Klingons believe as you do. The sick should die. Only the strong should live. Earthmen have promised to teach the youth of your tribes many things. What? What things? Cleverness against enemies? The use of weapons?
ELEEN: The Klingon speaks the truth, Akaar.
KIRK: The Earth Federation offers one other thing, Akaar. Our laws. And the highest of all our laws states that your world is yours and will always remain yours. This differs us from the Klingons. Their empire is made up of conquered worlds. They take what they want by arms and force.
MAAB: Good, good. Let the Klingons and the Earthmen offer us amusement. Capellans welcome this.
AKAAR: The Earth men have different customs, but never have they lied to our people.
MAAB: There are those of us who won't bargain with Earthmen, Akaar.
AKAAR: Do you say you will fight me, Maab?
MAAB: Let that be your choice, Teer.
KIRK: We need our communicators, those devices on our belts. If there's a Klingon ship somewhere
AKAAR: The sky does not interest me. I must consider the words I have heard.
ELEEN: Leave him.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: The ship's disappeared, sir. Gone out of range.
UHURA: Mister Scott, I'm getting a call from a vessel. It's so faint I can't make it out.
SCOTT: Put a booster on it, Lieutenant. Try to pull it in.
UHURA: I've lost it. It sounded like a distress signal from an Earth vessel.

[Tent]
KIRK: Klingon! Communicators, weapons.
KRAS: I have no quarrel with you, Captain. I wish merely to return to my vessel.
KIRK: Type of vessel. Location.
KRAS: A small scout ship, Captain. We need the mineral, too. I was sent to negotiate.
MAAB: Release him. Akaar is dead. I am the teer.
KRAS: Kill them now.
KIRK: Wait. If you lead these people now, be certain you make the right decisions.
KRAS: Is the new leader of the Ten Tribes afraid? Let me kill him for you.
KIRK: Or let the Klingon and me fight. It might amuse you.
MAAB: Perhaps to be a teer is to see in new ways. I begin to like you, Earthman, and I saw fear in the Klingon's eye.
KRAS: We had an agreement.
MAAB: That too may change, Klingon.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I have the signal clear now, Mister Scott. It is a distress call. It's from the SS Dierdre.
SCOTT: Dierdre? That's a freighter.
UHURA: Reporting they're under attack. They're running, trying to maneuver. It's a Klingon vessel attacking.
SCOTT: Helm?
SULU: Picking it up, sir. Taking a fix.
SCOTT: Try the captain.
UHURA: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain.

[Teer's tent]
MCCOY: Captain, careful.
MAAB: You carry a child who would be teer.
ELEEN: I must die. (Maab raises his knife, and Kirk pulls her away.
KIRK: No!
MAAB: No man may touch the wife of a teer.
KRAS: She was prepared to die, Earthman.
ELEEN: I was proud to obey the laws. Kill him first. He laid hands upon me. It is my right to see him die.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Enterprise to Mister Spock. Doctor McCoy, come in please.
CHEKOV: I have it on the sensors, sir. Tie into my channel, Lieutenant.
VOICE (voiceover): Commanding. We are under heavy attack by Klingon vessels. Two convoy ships are already damaged. We must have help. Enterprise, acknowledge. Please acknowledge. Repeat
SULU: Interception course computed and laid in, sir.
SCOTT: Prepare to take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
UHURA: Scotty, the captain.
SCOTT: We have a distress call from a Federation ship under attack. That's where our duty lies. Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Ahead warp five.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3498.9. Lieutenant Commander Scott in temporary command.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We were forced to leave Capella to aid a Federation vessel under attack by a Klingon vessel. We were unable to contact our landing party before we were forced to answer the distress signal. Our inability to reach the landing party is strange and I am concerned.

[Tent]
SPOCK: Our check-in signal is one hour, twelve minutes overdue. Since no reconnaissance party has appeared, and since Mister Scott is notably efficient in such matters
KIRK: I must assume that something's keeping them busy up there. The Klingon ship.
SPOCK: That would seem a logical conclusion.
MCCOY: Captain, I'm going to fix that woman's arm. They can only kill me once for touching her.
KIRK: That's a very good idea, Bones.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain, an excellent idea.
MCCOY: Let me see that arm.
ELEEN: You will not touch me.
KIRK: You said you're prepared to die. Does that mean you'd prefer to die? I think we can get you safely to the ship. Your choice. Bones.
ELEEN: To live is always desirable.
KIRK: All right. Let's go.

[Settlement]
MAAB: Klingon. There's nothing to concern you there.
KRAS: We made an agreement, Maab. I have a right to my weapons.
MAAB: We have them well cared for, Klingon. Your weapon will be returned when our business is completed. That was our agreement.

[Bridge]
SULU: Approaching the freighter's last reported position, sir.
SCOTT: Sensor report, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Negative, sir. No debris, no residual particles, no traces.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu, begin a standard search pattern. All scanners full intensity, Mister Chekov. No signal at all?
UHURA: Negative, sir.
CHEKOV: It should be on our screens by now.
SULU: At best, a freighter might travel warp two.
SCOTT: I'm well aware of a freighter's maximum speed, Mister Sulu.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3499.1. Before leaving the Capellan encampment, we managed to retrieve our communicators. Our phasers were not to be found. We've fled into the hills, yet we know the Capellans will eventually find us by scent alone, if necessary. And we've learned one thing more. The girl, Eleen, hates the unborn child she is carrying.

[Hillside]
KIRK: Stay with her, Bones. Nice place to get trapped in.
SPOCK: But a defensible entrance, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, I see. Scout up the trail that way. See what we have in the way of an exit. I'll take a look around.
MCCOY: Now listen, you may be a Capellan woman and the widow of a high teer, but I'm a doctor, and it's my tradition to care for the sick and injured. Now, let me see that arm.
ELEEN: You will not touch me in that manner.
MCCOY: You listen to me, young woman. I'll touch you in any way or manner that my professional judgment indicates.
MCCOY: Just as I thought. It can come anytime now.
ELEEN: How do you know?
MCCOY: Because I'm a doctor, that's how I know.
ELEEN: Even the women of our village cannot tell so much with a touch. Strange hand. Very soft.
SPOCK: The walls get higher and narrower, but there is a way out.
KIRK: Good. If we could block off that entrance, hold them off, it'd give us more time. They'd have to go around these hills.
SPOCK: There is enough loose rock and shale.
KIRK: Do you think we could create a sonic disruption with two of our communicators?
SPOCK: Only a very slight chance it would work.
KIRK: Well, if you don't think we can, maybe we shouldn't try.
SPOCK: Captain, I didn't say that exactly.
SPOCK: The sound beams should produce a sympathetic vibration on the weak area of that slide.
KIRK: Worried about the delivery?
MCCOY: Capellans aren't human, Jim. They're humanoid. There's certain internal differences. I don't have equipment to handle an emergency.
KIRK: Well, if you don't think you can handle it
MCCOY: Forget it. I can do it. The last thing I want around is a ham-handed ship's captain.
ELEEN: No! Only McCoy.
KIRK: There's a cave in there. Probably the only shelter around here.
MCCOY: I'll need help getting her in there.
ELEEN: No!
MCCOY: Look, I'm a doctor, not an escalator! Spock, give me a hand!
ELEEN: No! I will allow only your touch.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: A vessel doesn't just disappear.
UHURA: There's nothing, Mister Scott. All channels and frequencies are clear.
SCOTT: Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Nothing, sir. If it were destroyed, I'd pick up debris readings of some sort.
SULU: It couldn't have run away from us, sir. Not a freighter.
SCOTT: Mister Chekov, pull the microtape on that distress call. I want it replayed.
VOICE (voiceover): Commanding. We are under heavy attack by Klingon vessels. Two convoy ships are already damaged. We must have help. Enterprise, acknowledge. Please acknowledge.
SCOTT: Did you hear it? They called us by name. Not a general distress signal, but one aimed right at us.
SULU: Wouldn't they normally call for the nearest starship?
SCOTT: How would a freighter know we were ordered into this sector?
SULU: A trap. We were diverted from the planet.
UHURA: Or it could be an authentic distress call.
SCOTT: We'll stay long enough to make certain. Continue search pattern.
SULU: Yes, sir. Continuing.

[Cave]
KIRK: Bones, you've got one of those magnesite-nitron tablets in your kit. Give me one.
MCCOY: Just a minute. Let me get her on the rock. There you go.
ELEEN: No, no. Pain is here.
KIRK: How did you arrange to touch her, Bones, give her a happy pill?
MCCOY: No a right cross.
KIRK: Never seen that in a medical book.
MCCOY: It's in mine from now on.
ELEEN: No, no. It's there. The The pain is there.

[Cave entrance]
KIRK: Vegetation, Captain. Evidently there's water nearby.
KIRK: Good, but we need weapons just as much as we need water, Spock.
SPOCK: There would seem to be little weapon potential at hand.
KIRK: Follow me.

[Cave]
ELEEN: No! McCoy!
MCCOY: Easy, easy. I'm here. Now you must want the child!
ELEEN: No. Here, child belongs to husband.
MCCOY: So they take all the credit here. Poppycock! Answer me. Do you want my help? Answer me. Do you want my help? All right. Say to yourself, The child is mine. The child is mine. It is mine!
ELEEN: Yes, it's yours.
MCCOY: No, no. You've got it all wrong.
ELEEN: Yes, McCoy. It's yours.
MCCOY: No. Say to yourself, The child is mine. It is mine. It is

[Cave entrance]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SPOCK: Fortunately, this bark has suitable tensile cohesion.
KIRK: You mean it makes a good bowstring.
SPOCK: I believe I said that.
KIRK: That's more like it. Since the Capellans never developed the bow, this may come as big a surprise as gunpowder was on Earth.

[Cave]
MCCOY: No, no, Mister Spock. You place this arm under here to support its back, and this hand here to support its head.
SPOCK: I would rather, I would rather not. Thank you.
ELEEN: McCoy. Bring our child.
KIRK: Our child?
MCCOY: I'll explain later.
SPOCK: That should prove very interesting.

[Bridge]
SULU: Still negative, Mister Scott. All sweeps.
SCOTT: Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Nothing.
SCOTT: We're turning back. Warp five, Helm.
SULU: Warp five, sir. On course for Capella Four.
SCOTT: Warp 6 as soon as she'll take it, Mister Sulu. The captain could be in trouble back there.
UHURA: Mister Scott, another distress call from the USS Carolina.
SCOTT: Ignore it.
UHURA: The Carolina is registered in this sector.
SCOTT: Ignore it, Lieutenant. Log it as my order, my responsibility.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SULU: Scotty, if it should turn out to be real
SCOTT: There's an old, old saying on Earth, Mister Sulu. Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
CHEKOV: I know this saying. It was invented in Russia.

[Cave entrance]
MCCOY: Jim! Spock! Jim! Spock!
KIRK: What happened, Bones?
MCCOY: My patient spattered me with a rock. She's gone.
SPOCK: The child?
MCCOY: It's all right. It's in there. I guess I'll forget psychiatry, stick with surgery. I really thought she'd learned to want it.
SPOCK: Virtue is a relative term, Doctor. She'll head straight to the warriors.
MCCOY: I'll go with you.
KIRK: Bones, you took a medical oath long before you signed aboard my ship. That small patient in there needs you.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Estimating to planet?
SULU: Thirty one minutes, sir.
CHEKOV: Mister Scott? Sensors picking up a vessel ahead, cutting across our path.
SCOTT: Sub-light one half.
SULU: Reversing to sub-light, one half.
CHEKOV: It's an alien, sir. By configuration a Klingon warship. Taking position directly in our path.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu, sound battle stations.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
UHURA: This is the USS Enterprise calling unidentified Klingon vessel. Come in. USS Enterprise calling Klingon vessel. Acknowledge, please.
SULU: I have it on the viewscreen now, sir. Still distant. Holding a position dead ahead, sir.
SCOTT: Drawing a line, daring us to step over it.
SULU: Still closing. The alien's directly in our line of flight.
SCOTT: This is the commander of the USS Enterprise. Identify yourself and your intention. Acknowledge. Close out the frequency, Lieutenant.
SULU: Phaser banks are ready, sir.
SCOTT: And we'll go right down their throat, if necessary. Let's see if they have the belly for it.

[Hillside]
KEEL: Behind the rocks up there.
MAAB: The Earthmen make excellent game. Their cleverness has surprised me.
KRAS: They must die. That is your law.
MAAB: We will honor our law, and our word to you, Klingon.
KEEL: Maab.
ELEEN: The child is dead, Maab. Do as you will with me.
KEEL: The Earthmen?
ELEEN: Dead. I killed them as they slept.
KRAS: If true, take us to them.
ELEEN: Do you doubt my word, Klingon? I'm the wife of a teer. I will die in my own tent.
MAAB: It is in order. She is the wife of a teer. No!
KRAS: First, we'll verify her story.
MAAB: Is this what your sworn word means, Klingon?
KIRK: Spock. Spock!
SPOCK: Here, Captain. Over here, Captain. Spock to Enterprise.
KIRK: The cavalry doesn't come over the hill in the nick of time anymore.
SPOCK: If by that you mean we can't expect help from the Enterprise, I must agree.
MAAB: Naam.
KIRK: There's just one thing I want.
SPOCK: The Klingon?
KIRK: One of us must get him.
SPOCK: Revenge, Captain?
KIRK: Why not?
KRAS: The next man who raises a weapon destroys all of you. You and your primitive knives and your weapons, I'll teach you what killing really means.
KIRK: Klingon!
ELEEN: Fight! Are you warriors or children? Maab, I will flee. When the Klingon turns to fire, I'll
MAAB: As teer of the Ten Tribes, I give you back your life. Mine is now forfeit. Keel, stand ready.
MAAB: Klingon!
SCOTT: Hold it there. Drop your weapons.
KIRK: We missed you, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Well sir, we had a wee bit of a run-in with a Klingon vessel, but he had no stomach for fighting. We checked the encampment, found out you were here, and had no trouble at all in tracking you down. I could
MCCOY: No, that's not the way to handle it. Here, like this. Here, take his little head like that. There, arm in a. That's it. See how easy? Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo.
SPOCK: Oochy-woochy coochy-coo, Captain?
KIRK: An obscure Earth dialect, Mister Spock. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. If you're curious, consult linguistics.
SPOCK: Well, at any rate, this should prove interesting.
KIRK: Interesting?
SPOCK: When the woman starts explaining how the new high teer is actually Doctor McCoy's child.
SCOTT: What's that again, Mister Spock?
KIRK: We don't actually understand it ourselves, Mister Scott.
SPOCK: Nor does Doctor McCoy. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Contact Starfleet. Inform them the Federation mining rights on Capella have been secured by treaty, documents signed by the young high chief's regent. Report follows.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: The child's regent?
KIRK: Yes, Eleen. Remarkable young lady.
MCCOY: Representing the high teer, Leonard James Akaar.
SPOCK: The child was named Leonard James Akaar?
MCCOY: Has a kind of a ring to it, don't you think, James?
KIRK: Yes. I think it's a name destined to go down in galactic history, Leonard. What do you think, Spock?
SPOCK: I think you're both going to be insufferably pleased with yourselves for at least a month, sir.
KIRK: Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Ahead warp factor one.

[Bridge]
CAROLYN: Here's the report on Pollux Five, Captain. This entire system has been almost the same. A strange lack of intelligent life on the planets. It bugs the percentages.
KIRK: Bugs the? Well, carry out the standard procedures on Pollux Four.
CAROLYN: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Lieutenant, you look a bit tired this morning.
CAROLYN: Well, I was up all night working on this report, sir.
SCOTT: Well in that case, there's nothing like a wee bit of coffee to get you back in shape. Join me, Carolyn?
CAROLYN: All right, Scotty. Just let me give this to Mister Spock.
KIRK: Bones, could you get that excited over a cup of coffee?
MCCOY: Even from here I can tell his pulse rate's up.
SCOTT: Gentlemen. Come along, my dear.
MCCOY: I'm not sure I like that, Jim.
KIRK: Why, Bones? Scotty's a good man.
MCCOY: And he thinks he's the right man for her, but I'm not sure she thinks he's the right man. On the other hand, she's a woman. All woman. One day she'll find the right man and off she'll go, out of the service.
KIRK: I like to think of it not so much losing an officer as gaining
SCOTT: Come along.
KIRK: Actually, I'm losing an officer.
CHEKOV: Entering standard orbit around Pollux Four, sir.
KIRK: Cartographic Detail, stand by.
UHURA: Standing by, sir.
KIRK: Preliminary reports, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Pollux Four. Class M type planet, oxygen and nitrogen atmosphere. Sensors indicate no life forms. Approximate age four billion years. Judged no reason for contact. In all respects, quite ordinary, Captain.
KIRK: Cartographic Sections, implement standard orders.
UHURA: All cartographic standards full automatic.
SULU: Captain?
MCCOY: What in the name of?
KIRK: Analysis, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Momentarily.
CHEKOV: Am I seeing things?
SULU: Not unless I am, too. Captain, that thing's a giant hand.
KIRK: What is it, Mister Spock? Is it a hand?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Not living tissue.
KIRK: A trick, then? A projection?
SPOCK: Not a projection, sir. A field of energy.
KIRK: Hard about.
SULU: Hard about. We can't seem to get away from it.
UHURA: It's almost as if it means to grab us.
KIRK: Reverse all engines.
SULU: All engines reverse.
SULU: We're dead still, Captain. Helm doesn't answer. We can't move.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3468.1. While approaching Pollux Four, a planet in the Beta Geminorum system, the Enterprise has been stopped in space by an unknown force of some kind.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant, relay our position and circumstances to Starbase Twelve immediately.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu try rocking the ship. Full impulse power forward and back.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
UHURA: Damage report coming in, Captain. Situation under control. Minor damage, stations three, seven, and nineteen.
MCCOY: Sickbay reports five minor injuries, all being treated.
KIRK: Thank you. Mister Sulu?
SULU: Applying thrust, sir. No results, Captain. We're stuck tight.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Status.
SPOCK: The ship is almost completely encircled by the field. It resembles a conventional force field but on unusual wavelengths. Despite its appearance, that of a human appendage, it is definitely not living tissue. It is energy.
KIRK: Thank you. Mister Sulu. Our forward tractor beams, adjust to repel.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Standing by.
KIRK: Activate.
SULU: Ineffective, Captain. There doesn't seem to be anything to push against.
SPOCK: Captain, a most curious development on scanner five seven.
KIRK: Let's all take a look at it, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Screen on, Captain.
UHURA: Activity on hailing channel three, sir. KIRK; Put it on audio, Lieutenant.
APOLLO (screen): The eons have passed and what has been written has come about. You are most welcome, my beloved children. Your places await you.
KIRK: Response frequencies, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Calculated. Channel open, sir.
APOLLO (screen): You have left your plains and valleys and made this bold venture. So it was in the beginning. You have made me proud. Now you can rest.
KIRK: This is Captain James T. Kirk, commanding the USS Enterprise. Please identify yourself.
APOLLO (screen): We shall remember together. We shall drink the sacramental wine. There shall be the music of the pipes. The long wait has ended.
KIRK: Are you responsible for stopping the ship?
APOLLO (screen): Yes. I caused the wind to withdraw from your sails.
KIRK: Give it back, then we'll talk.
APOLLO (screen): It has been five thousand years. Have you learned no patience in that time?
KIRK: I don't know who or what you are, but I must warn you we have the power to defend ourselves. If you value your safety, release this ship.
APOLLO (screen): You have the same fire. How like your fathers you are. Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus.
KIRK: Never mind the history lesson. Release the ship!
APOLLO (screen): You will obey me, lest I close my hand thus.
SCOTT: External pressure building up, Captain. Eight hundred GSC and climbing.
KIRK: Compensate.
SCOTT: One thousand GSC and climbing. Becoming critical, Captain. We can't handle it.
KIRK: All right! Whatever you're doing, turn it off! You win!
SCOTT: Pressure is gone, Captain. Space normal on hull.
APOLLO (screen): hat was your first lesson. Remember it. Captain Kirk, I invite you and your officers to join me. But do not bring that one, the one with the pointed ears. He is much like Pan, and Pan always bored me. No sad faces. This is a time to rejoice, not to fear. You are returning home. Let your hearts prepare to sing.
KIRK: Let's go, Bones. You in good voice?
MCCOY: Sure it's wise, Jim?
KIRK: If we don't accept his invitation, we'll have a crushed eggshell where this ship used to be.
SPOCK: Verbose, isn't he?
KIRK: Insulted, Spock?
SPOCK: Insults are effective only where emotion is present.
KIRK: Good. We'll tackle him together. We already know the questions. You're the best man to find the answers.

[Temple]
KIRK: Tricorders.
CAROLYN: What am I doing down here, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, you're the A and A officer, aren't you? Archeology, anthropology, ancient civilisations.
CAROLYN: Correct.
MCCOY: We're going to need help in all those areas.
KIRK: Come on.
APOLLO: My children, long have I waited for this moment. The memories you bring of your lush and beautiful Earth, the green fields and blue skies, the simple shepherds and their flocks.
KIRK: You know of Earth? You've been there?
APOLLO: Once I stretched out my hand, and Earth trembled. And I breathed upon it, and spring returned.
KIRK: You mentioned Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus. How do you know about them?
APOLLO: Search your most distant memories, those of the thousands of years past, and I am there. Your fathers knew me, and your father's fathers. I am Apollo.
CHEKOV: And I am the tsar of all the Russias.
KIRK: Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: I'm sorry, Captain. I never met a god before.
KIRK: And you haven't yet. Readings, Doctor.
MCCOY: Simple humanoid, Captain.
KIRK: Evidently not so simple.
APOLLO: Earth, mother of the most beautiful of women in the universe. That at least has not changed. I am pleased. Yes, my children. Zeus, Athena, Aphrodite, Artemis. A gallant band of travelers. We knew your Earth well, five thousand of your years ago.
KIRK: All right. We're here at your invitation. Would you mind telling us what you want without all the Olympian generalities?
APOLLO: You will not leave this place.
KIRK: Transporter room.
APOLLO: Your transportation device no longer functions.
KIRK: Enterprise, come in.
APOLLO: I will not permit that device to work, either, Captain.
KIRK: What is it you want?
APOLLO: You will worship me, as your fathers did before you.
KIRK: If you want to play god and call yourself Apollo, that's your business, but you're no god to us, Mister.
APOLLO: I said you would worship me.
KIRK: And you've got a lot to learn!
APOLLO: And so have you! Let the lesson begin! Welcome to Olympus, Captain Kirk.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Spock, I can't contact the landing party. All frequencies are jammed.
SPOCK: Try to break through it, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KYLE: Transporter and communications?
SPOCK: Very efficient. Mister Sulu, rig all transmission circuits for maximum power generation. Compute for reversal of polarity of the field around the ship.
SULU: Working, sir.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Kyle, I want a complete sensor scan of the planet.
KYLE: Aye sir.
SPOCK: Locate all the lifeforms. I want to know what's going on down there.

[Temple]
MCCOY: To coin a phrase, fascinating.
KIRK: Analysis. Lieutenant Palamas, what do you know about Apollo?
CAROLYN: Apollo, twin brother of Artemis, son of the god Zeus and Leto, a mortal. He was the god of light and purity. He was skilled in the bow and lyre.
KIRK: And this thing?
CAROLYN: Obviously he has some knowledge of Earth. His classical references and the appearance of all this.
KIRK: I think the appearance of this is for our benefit. Bones?
MCCOY: I can't say much till I check our these readings. He looks human, but of course that doesn't mean a thing.
CHEKOV: Whatever he is, he seems to control a remarkable technology.
SCOTT: Power is what he controls. You can't do tricks like that without energy.
KIRK: Fine, but what power, and where is it? Scout around with your tricorders. Find the source of that power. Bones.
MCCOY: Yes?
KIRK: Bones, I wonder if five thousand years ago
MCCOY: You have a theory?
KIRK: I have an idea. What if he is really Apollo?
MCCOY: What?
CAROLYN: Captain.
APOLLO: I want from you that which is rightfully mine. Your loyalty, your tribute, and your worship.
MCCOY: May I ask what you offer in exchange for this worship?
APOLLO: Life in paradise. As simple and as pleasureful as it was those thousands of years ago on that beautiful planet so far away.
KIRK: Apollo, we're willing to talk, but you'll find we don't bow to every creature who happens to have a bag of tricks.
APOLLO: Agamemnon was one such as you, and Hercules. Pride and arrogance. They defied me until they felt my wrath.
SCOTT: I would like to point out that we are quite capable of some wrath ourselves.
KIRK: I have four hundred and thirty people on that ship up there.
APOLLO: No, you do not, Captain. They are mine. To save, to cherish, or to destroy at my will.
CAROLYN: But why? What you've said so far makes no sense at all.
APOLLO: How like Aphrodite and Athena. The beauty, grace. And you seem wise for a woman. What is your name?
CAROLYN: Lieutenant Palamas.
APOLLO: I mean your name.
CAROLYN: Carolyn.
APOLLO: Carolyn. Yes. You are beautiful. You would do Aphrodite credit. I will tell you a thousand tales, stories of courage and love. You will know what it is to be a goddess.
SCOTT: Leave her alone.
APOLLO: You protest? You risk much.
SCOTT: And so do you.
KIRK: Scotty. Very impressive. How'd you do it?
APOLLO: I've grown weary of diskussion and argument.
CHEKOV: Captain, the phasers. All the working parts are fused.
APOLLO: None of your toys will function. Yes. You are a beauty. But like Artemis, the bow arm should be bare.
CAROLYN: Oh, it's beautiful.
APOLLO: Yes. Come.
SCOTT: She's not going with you.
APOLLO: He shall learn the diskipline of the temple. So shall you all. Come.
CAROLYN: It's all right, Captain. I'll go.
APOLLO: Without fear. She is fit indeed.
KIRK: Bones, how is he?
MCCOY: Stunned but coming around. I'm not sure it's wise to let her go off like that.
KIRK: He would have been rather difficult to stop.
MCCOY: You saw how capricious he is. Benevolent one minute, angry the next. One more wrong move from her and he could kill her.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, I think you'd better continue your investigation.
CHEKOV: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: How do you feel, Scotty?
SCOTT: I am tingling all over. Did he take her with him?
KIRK: It would seem so.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got to stop him. He wants her. The way he looks at her.
KIRK: Mister Scott, I understand your concern over her, but she volunteered to go with him, hopefully to find out more about him. She's doing her job. I think it's about time you started doing yours. We've got to find out the source of his power. You've got a tricorder. Use it if you're able to.
SCOTT: I'm able, sir.
KIRK: And one more thing. I want no more unauthorized action against Apollo or whatever he is. That's an order!
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Besides, you stiff-necked thistle head, you could have gotten yourself killed.
SCOTT: Aye.
MCCOY: Scotty doesn't believe in gods.
KIRK: Apollo's no god. But he could have been taken for one, though, once. Say five thousand years ago, a highly sophisticated group of space travelers landed on Earth around the Mediterranean.
MCCOY: Yes. To the simple shepherds and tribesmen of early Greece, creatures like that would have been gods.
KIRK: Especially if they had the power to alter their form at will and command great energy. In fact, they couldn't have been taken for anything else.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Ready to reverse polarity, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Computed and standing by to generate, sir.
SPOCK: Activate all units.
SULU: No good, Mister Spock. We didn't even faze it. We're still locked tight.
SPOCK: Cut power, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant, we must restore communications with the landing party.
UHURA: I'm working, sir, but I can't do anything with this.
SPOCK: Oh?
UHURA: I might be able to rig up a subspace bypass circuit.
SPOCK: Good. Do so. Sensor report, Mister Kyle.
KYLE: I've located the landing party, but one of them seems separated from the other four.
SPOCK: And Apollo?
KIRK: I've just picked up readings for our own people, sir.
SULU: Mister Spock, here's something. There seems to be a radiated energy pulsation coming from the planet. I don't know what it is, sir.
SPOCK: Origin?
SULU: I can't seem to pinpoint it.
SPOCK: I would suggest, Mister Sulu, if you cannot find out where the power source is, you should find out where it is not. A simple process of elimination.
SULU: The whole planet, sir? Yes, sir. The whole planet.

[Water's side]
CAROLYN: Oh, it's lovely.
APOLLO: I've known other women. Daphne, Cassandra, but none more beautiful than you. Are you frightened of me?
CAROLYN: Frightened? No, I don't think so. Of course, a girl doesn't go walking with a
APOLLO: A god?
CAROLYN: All right, a god every day. What happened to the others? Artemis, Hera?
APOLLO: They returned to the cosmos on the wings of the wind.
CAROLYN: You mean they died?
APOLLO: No, not as you understand it. We're immortal, we gods. But the Earth changed. Your fathers changed. They turned away until we were only memories. A god cannot survive as a memory. We need love, admiration, worship, as you need food.
CAROLYN: You really think you're a god?
APOLLO: In a real sense, we were gods. We had the power of life and death. We could have struck out from Olympus and destroyed. We have no wish to destroy, so we came home again. It was an empty place without worshipers, but we had no strength to leave, so we waited, all of us, through the long years.
CAROLYN: But you said the others didn't die.
APOLLO: Even for a god, there's a point of no return. Hera was first. She stood in front of the temple and spread herself upon the wind, thinner and thinner, until only the wind remained. But I knew you would come. You striving, bickering, foolishly brave humans. I knew you would come to the stars one day. Of all the gods, I knew and I waited, waited for you to come and sit by my side.
CAROLYN: I don't understand.
APOLLO: Even five thousand years ago, the gods took mortals to them to love, to care for, like Zeus took Leto, my mother. We were gods of passion, of love.

[Temple]
CHEKOV: There is a repeated occurrence of registrations, a regular pulsating pattern of radiated energy.
SCOTT: Unquestionably, an immensely powerful field of energy is being generated around here somewhere. We're just having difficulty focusing on it.
KIRK: Apollo has no difficulty focusing. He taps that energy, Mister Scott.
CHEKOV: Sir, some creatures can generate and control energy with no harm to themselves. The electric eel on Earth, the giant dry worm of Antos Four, the fluffy
MCCOY: Not the whole encyclopedia, Chekov.
CHEKOV: The captain requires complete information.
MCCOY: Spock's contaminating this boy, Jim.
KIRK: Are you suggesting that he, Apollo, taps a flow of energy and channels it through his body?
CHEKOV: That would seem most likely, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, I think you've earned your pay for the week. But where is the source of that power?
MCCOY: Number one on our list of things to do.
KIRK: Is that all you have to offer?
MCCOY: Yes, except my estimation for his physical condition. In spite of Apollo's bag of tricks, he comes up essentially normal with just a few variations. However, there's an extra organ in his chest that I can't even make a guess about.
KIRK: Bones, is it possible
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Where's Lieutenant Palamas?
APOLLO: She is no longer of any concern to you.
SCOTT: You bloodthirsty Saracen, what have you done with her?
KIRK: Scotty!
MCCOY: Not good. Severe shock.
KIRK: All right, mister. You wanted worshipers? You've got enemies. You want us to bow down, you'll have to
APOLLO: You will learn diskipline. You will learn
MCCOY: Chekov, give me a hand.
KIRK: Take care of Scotty.
CHEKOV: Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK: Where's Apollo?
CHEKOV: He disappeared again like the cat in that Russian story.
KIRK: Don't you mean the English story, the Cheshire Cat?
CHEKOV: Cheshire? No, sir. Minsk perhaps, but
KIRK: All right, all right, all right.
CHEKOV: Sir, there is something I noticed. Apollo looked very strange when he disappeared, tired or in pain. I don't know if it means anything.
KIRK: Very good, Mister Chekov. That might very well mean something.
MCCOY: How do you feel?
SCOTT: I can't get my arm to move.
MCCOY: Some neural damage.
KIRK: We've got to get out of here.
CHEKOV: How?
KIRK: Well, let's assume that five thousand years ago creatures like our friend Apollo did indeed visit Earth and form the basis of the Greek classic myths.
MCCOY: Makes sense.
KIRK: Most mythology has its basis in fact. If I remember my ancient legends, the gods, after expending energy, required rest, even as we humans.
CHEKOV: And Apollo's gone, after attacking you and Mister Scott. You think maybe he's off somewhere recharging his energy cells?
KIRK: Something like that. Remember, he's keeping a force field on the ship and he's expending energy down here. You said he looked pained and tired when he disappeared. If we can wear him out, overwork him, that might do it.
MCCOY: The trouble with overworking him is that it can get us killed.
KIRK: If we can provoke him so that he strikes one of us again, there's a chance that he'll be drained enough so the rest of us can jump him.
MCCOY: I still say it can get us killed.
KIRK: Not all of us, Bones. When he comes back, it's a chance we'll have to take.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Progress report.
UHURA: I'm connecting the bypass circuit now, sir. It should take another half hour.
SPOCK: Speed is essential, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Mister Spock, I haven't done anything like this in years. If it isn't done just right, I could blow the entire communications system. It's very delicate work, sir.
SPOCK: I can think no one better equipped to handle it, Miss Uhura. Please proceed.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Right away.
SPOCK: Progress, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Sectors one through twenty five charted and examined. No chance at all of power originating in those areas.
SPOCK: Continue the search.
SULU: Aye, sir. Fourteen B by twenty six index.
SPOCK: Mister Kyle.
KYLE: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: We're unable to break completely loose from this force field, but we might be able to punch some holes through it.
KYLE: What for, sir?
SPOCK: To shoot through. It might also relieve Lieutenant Uhura's communications problem. Take these equations to the nuclear electronics lab. I want them to work on the problem of negating the force field in selected areas. That might be done by generating a strong pinpoint charge of M-rays on some of these selected wave lengths and tying them in with the combined output of all our engines.
KYLE: Right away, sir.

[Temple]
APOLLO: Come here! I know you're trying to escape me. It's useless. I know everything you do. I tried to be compassionate toward your kind.
KIRK: You know nothing about our kind. You know only our remote ancestors who trembled before your tricks. Your tricks don't frighten us, neither do you. We've come a long way in five thousand years.
APOLLO: But you're of the same nature. I could sweep you out of existence with a wave of my hand and bring you back again. I can give life or death. What else does mankind demand of its gods?
KIRK: Mankind has no need for gods. We find the one quite adequate.
APOLLO: We shall not debate, mortal. I offer you eternal rest and happiness according to the ancient ways. I ask little in return, but what I ask for I insist upon. Approach me. I said approach me!
KIRK: We're busy. Look after the girl.
APOLLO: You will gather laurel leaves, light the ancient fires, kill a deer, make your sacrifices to me. Apollo has spoken!
KIRK: Go! Gather laurel leaves? You must be joking!
ALL: Ha ha ha ha.
MCCOY: Kill a deer. That's the funniest thing I ever heard.
CAROLYN: Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, get back.
APOLLO: You shall reap the rewards of your insolence!
KIRK: We're tired of your phony fireworks!
APOLLO: Mortal, you have earned this!
CAROLYN: No, don't!
KIRK: Lieutenant!
CAROLYN: A father doesn't destroy his children. You said you were gentle and understanding.
KIRK: Lieutenant!
CAROLYN: How can they worship you if you hurt them?
KIRK: Lieutenant.
CAROLYN: Apollo, please. You know so much of love. Please don't hurt them. Please.
APOLLO: I shall be lenient with you, for her sake. You will make plans to bring the rest of your people down. Be sure your artisans bring tools. You will need homes.
KIRK: And you will supply the herds of sheep, and the pipes we'll play, and the simple skins we'll wear for clothes.
APOLLO: You will dismantle your ship for the supplies you need, and I'll crush its empty hull. I have been too patient. I shall be patient no longer.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got to do something!
KIRK: We were doing something until our brave lady stepped in and saved us.
MCCOY: Any more good ideas, Jim?
KIRK: Yes, I have. One more. And it depends on the lieutenant's loyalty. If she fails us, we'd better get used to herding goats.

[Water's side]
APOLLO: Fools. I offer them more than they could know. Not just a world, but all that makes it up. Man thinks he's progressed. They're wrong. He's merely forgotten those things which gave life meaning. You'll all be provided for, cared for, happy. There is an order of things in this universe. Your species has denied it. I come to restore it. And for you, because you have the sensitivity to understand, I offer you more than your wildest dreams have ever imagined. You'll become the mother of a new race of gods. You'll inspire the universe. All men will revere you almost as a god yourself. And I shall love you for time without end, worlds without end. You shall complete me, and I you.

[Temple]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Kirk to
SCOTT: Carolyn. What's happened to her?
KIRK: Scotty, I'll find out.
CHEKOV: Perhaps if I assisted.
KIRK: How old are you?
CHEKOV: Twenty two, sir.
KIRK: Then I'd better handle it. You all right?
CAROLYN: Oh, yes, I'm all right. I have a message for you.
KIRK: Come over there. Well?
CAROLYN: He wants us to live in peace. He wants to provide for us. He'll give us everything we ever wanted, and he can do it, too.
KIRK: All right, Lieutenant, you can come down from Mount Olympus now. You've got work to do.
CAROLYN: I don't understand.
KIRK: He thrives on love, worship, attention.
CAROLYN: Yes?
KIRK: We can't give him that worship, none of us can. Especially you.
CAROLYN: What?
KIRK: Spurn him. Reject him. You must. You're special to him.
CAROLYN: Yes. I love him.
KIRK: Lieutenant. All our lives, here and on the ship, depend on you.
CAROLYN: No, not on me.
KIRK: On you, Lieutenant! Reject him, and we have a chance to save ourselves. Accept him, and you condemn all of us to slavery, nothing less than slavery. We might never get help this far out. Or perhaps the thought of spending an eternity bending knee and tending sheep appeals to you.
CAROLYN: Oh, but you don't understand. He's kind, and he wants the best for us. And he's so lonely. What you ask would break his heart. How can I?
KIRK: Give me your hand. Your hand. Now feel that. Human flesh against human flesh. We're the same. We share the same history, the same heritage, the same lives. We're tied together beyond any untying. Man or woman, it makes no difference. We're human. We couldn't escape from each other even if we wanted to. That's how you do it, Lieutenant. By remembering who and what you are. A bit of flesh and blood afloat in a universe without end. The only thing that's truly yours is the rest of humanity. That's where our duty lies. Do you understand me?
CAROLYN: Yes. Yes, I understand. He's calling me.
KIRK: Lieutenant. You have your orders and your duty.
CAROLYN: Yes, sir. My orders and my duty.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I think we can try it now, sir. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain.

[Temple]
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain.

[Temple]
SPOCK (voiceover): We've pinpointed a power source on the planet's surface which seems to have something to do with the force field.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Is there a structure of some sort near you?

[Temple]
KIRK: There is indeed, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): The power emanates from there.
KIRK: Very good. How are you doing on the force field?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: We can negate sections of it, creating openings through which we can fire our phaser banks.

[Temple]
KIRK: Well, that ought to do it. Have Sulu lock all phaser banks onto the structure. Fire on my order only. Cut it fine. We'll be standing nearby. ] Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain. I would recommend a diskreet distance.
KIRK (voiceover): I'd love to oblige you, Mister Spock, but we're not all together. Besides, we have Apollo to deal with.

[Temple]
KIRK: If that structure is the source of his power, I want to know where he is when we attack it.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk out.

[Temple]
KIRK: Bones, do you think that mysterious organ in Apollo's chest could have something to do with the transmission of energy?
MCCOY: Well, it doesn't serve any other purpose I know of.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got to wait until Carolyn comes back before we fire on the temple. We don't know what would happen to her if he was suddenly attacked. She might get killed.
KIRK: Yes, I know. I know. Scotty. We'll wait.

[Water's side]
CAROLYN: I must say, Apollo, the way you ape human behavior is remarkable, but there are some other things I must know. Your evolutionary patterns and your social development.
APOLLO: My what?
CAROLYN: I'm sure they're unique. I've never encountered a specimen like you before.
APOLLO: I am Apollo. I've chosen you.
CAROLYN: I'm sure that's very flattering, but I must get on with my work now.
APOLLO: Your work?
CAROLYN: I'm a scientist. My particular specialty is ancient civilisations, relics, and myths. Surely you know I've only been studying you.
APOLLO: I don't believe it. You love me.
CAROLYN: Love you? Be logical. I'm not some simple shepherdess you can awe. Why, I could no more love you than I could love a new species of bacteria.
APOLLO: Carolyn! I forbid you to go. I order you to stay.
CAROLYN: Is that the secret of your power over women, the thunderbolts you throw?

[Temple]
MCCOY: What the devil is that?
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sensors are picking up an atmospheric disturbance in your area.

[Temple]
KIRK: Stand by your phasers, Mister Spock. Prepare to fire on my signal. Kirk out.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got to go and find her!
KIRK: We've got to be here when he comes back.
SCOTT: But what if he doesn't. What if he
KIRK: Scotty, just hold on!
SCOTT: Captain!
KIRK: All right. The temple is his power source. Let's bring him back to it. Get to cover. Mister Spock, fire those phasers.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, you're too close.
KIRK: Fire those phasers! That's an order, Mister Spock!

[Bridge]
SULU: All phaser banks, fire!

[Temple]
APOLLO: No! Stop! Stop, I say!

[Bridge]
SULU: All phaser banks, maintain firing rate!
SPOCK: More power to the shields.

[Temple]
APOLLO: Stop!
KIRK: Scotty!
APOLLO: Stop, I say! I command it!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: All banks maintain firing rate.
SULU: Maintaining, sir.

[Temple]
APOLLO: Stop! Stop! Stop!
APOLLO: I would have cherished you, cared for you. I would have loved you as a father loves his children. Did I ask so much?
KIRK: We've out grown you. You asked for something we could no longer give.
APOLLO: Carolyn, I loved you. I would have made a goddess of you. I've shown you my open heart. See what you've done to me.
APOLLO: Zeus, Hermes, Hera, Aphrodite. You were right. Athena, you were right. The time has passed. There is no room for gods. Forgive me, my old friends. Take me. Take me.
MCCOY: I wish we hadn't had to do this.
KIRK: So do I. They gave us so much. The Greek civilisation, much of our culture and philosophy came from a worship of those beings. In a way, they began the Golden Age. Would it have hurt us, I wonder, just to have gathered a few laurel leaves?

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Oh, Captain. Got a minute?
KIRK: A minute.
MCCOY: It's Spock. Have you noticed anything strange about him?
KIRK: No, nothing in particular. Why ?
MCCOY: Well, it's nothing I can pinpoint without an examination, but he's become increasingly restive. If he were not a Vulcan, I'd almost say nervous. And for another thing, he's avoiding food. I checked and he hasn't eaten at all in three days.
KIRK: That just sounds like Mister Spock in one of his contemplative phases.
MCCOY: Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Captain.
CHAPEL: Captain.
MCCOY: What's this?
CHAPEL: Oh.
MCCOY: Oh! Vulcan plomeek soup, and I'll bet you made it too. You never give up hoping, do you?
CHAPEL: Well, Mister Spock hasn't been eating, Doctor, and I, I just happened to notice.
MCCOY: It's all right. Carry on, Miss Chapel.
KIRK: Bones, I'm a busy man.
MCCOY: Jim, when I suggested to Spock that it was time for his routine check-up, your logical, unemotional first officer turned to me and said, you will cease to pry into my personal matters, Doctor, or I shall certainly break your neck.
KIRK: Spock said that?
SPOCK (voiceover): What is this?
SPOCK (voiceover): Poking and prying! If I want anything from you, I'll ask for it!
SPOCK: Captain, I should like to request a leave of absence on my home planet. On our present course you can divert to Vulcan with a loss of but two point eight light days.
KIRK: Spock, what the devil is this all about?
SPOCK: I have made my request, Captain. All I require from you is that you answer it. Yes or no.

[Spock's quarters]
KIRK: All right, Spock, let's have it.
SPOCK: It is undignified for a woman to play servant to a man who is not hers.
KIRK: I'm more interested in your request for shore leave. In all the years
SPOCK: You have my request, Captain. Will you grant it or not?
KIRK: In all the years that I've known you, you've never asked for a leave of any sort. In fact, you've refused them. Why now?
SPOCK: Captain, surely I have enough leave time accumulated.
KIRK: Agreed, but that isn't the question, is it? If there's a problem of some sort, illness in the family
SPOCK: No. Nothing of that nature, Captain.
KIRK: Then since we're headed for Altair Six, and since the shore facilities there are excellent
SPOCK: No! I must. I wish to take my leave on Vulcan.
KIRK: Spock, I'm asking you. What's wrong?
SPOCK: I need rest. I'm asking you to accept that answer.
KIRK: Bridge. Helm.
SULU (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Alter course to Vulcan. Increase speed to warp four.
SULU (voiceover): Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: I suppose most of us overlook the fact that even Vulcans aren't indestructible.
SPOCK: No. We're not.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3372.7. On course, on schedule, bound for Altair Six via Vulcan. First Officer Spock seems to be under stress. He has requested and been granted shore leave. Ship surgeon McCoy has him under medical surveillance.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, something's coming in on the Starfleet channel. Priority and urgent, sir.
KIRK: Put it on audio over here, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Message complete, sir. Switching over.
STARFLEET (voiceover): To Captain, USS Enterprise from Starfleet Sector Nine. Inauguration ceremonies, Altair Six, have been advanced seven solar days. You are ordered to alter your flight plan to accommodate, by order of Komack, Admiral, Starfleet Command. Acknowledge.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, acknowledge that message.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, compute course and speed necessary for compliance.
CHEKOV: We'll have to head directly there at warp six, sir. Insufficient time to stop off at Vulcan.
KIRK: Head directly for Altair Six. Sailor's luck, Mister Spock. Or, as one of Finagle's Laws puts it, 'Any home port the ship makes ill be somebody else's, not mine'. The new president of Altair Six wants to get himself launched a week early, so we have to be there a week early. Don't worry. I'll see that you get your leave as soon as we're finished.
SPOCK: I quite understand, Captain.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Bridge. Navigation.
CHEKOV (screen): Navigation. Chekov here.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, how late will we arrive for the ceremonies if we increase speed to maximum and divert to Vulcan just long enough to drop off Mister Spock?
CHEKOV (screen): I don't understand, Captain.
KIRK: How far behind schedule will diverting to Vulcan put us?
CHEKOV (screen): We're on course for Vulcan, Captain, as Mister Spock ordered.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Chekov. Kirk, out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Spock. Come with me, please.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Deck five. You've changed course for Vulcan, Mister Spock. Why?
SPOCK: Changed the course?
KIRK: Do you deny it?
SPOCK: No. No, by no means, Captain. It is quite possible.
KIRK: Then why'd you do it?
SPOCK: Captain, I accept on your word that I did it, but I do not know why, nor do I remember doing it. Captain, lock me away. I do not wish to be seen. I cannot. No Vulcan could explain further.
KIRK: I'm trying to help you, Spock.
SPOCK: Ask me no further questions. I will not answer.
KIRK: I order you to report to the Sickbay.
SPOCK: Sickbay?
KIRK: Complete examination. McCoy's waiting.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Come in, Spock. I'm all ready for you.
SPOCK: My orders were to report to Sickbay, Doctor. I have done so. And now I'll go to my quarters.
MCCOY: My orders were to give you a thorough physical. In case you hadn't noticed, I have to answer to the same commanding officer that you do. Come on, Spock. Yield to the logic of the situation.
SPOCK: Examine me, for all the good it'll do either of us.

[Bridge]
SULU: How do you figure it, Chekov? First we're going to Vulcan, then we're going to Altair, then we're headed to Vulcan again, and now we're headed back to Altair.
CHEKOV: I think I'm going to get space sick.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: Jim, you've got to get Spock to Vulcan.
KIRK: Bones, I will, I will. As soon as this mission is
MCCOY: No! Now. Right away. If you don't get him to Vulcan within a week eight days at the outside, he'll die. He'll die, Jim.
KIRK: Why must he die? Why within eight days? Explain.
MCCOY: I don't know.
KIRK: You keep saying that. Are you a doctor, or aren't you?
MCCOY: There's a growing imbalance of body functions, as if in our bodies huge amounts of adrenalin were constantly being pumped into our bloodstreams. Now, I can't trace it down in my biocomps. Spock won't tell me what it is. But if it isn't stopped somehow, the physical and emotional pressures will simply kill him.
KIRK: You say you're convinced he knows what it is?
MCCOY: He does, and he's as tightlipped about it as an Aldebaran Shellmouth. No use to ask him, Jim. He won't talk.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Come.
KIRK: Stay. McCoy has given me his medical evaluation of your condition. He says you're going to die unless something is done. What? Is it something only your planet can do for you? Spock! You've been called the best first officer in the fleet. That's an enormous asset to me. If I have to lose that first officer, I want to know why.
SPOCK: It is a thing no out-worlder may know except those very few who have been involved. A Vulcan understands, but even we do not speak of it among ourselves. It is a deeply personal thing. Can you see that, Captain, and understand?
KIRK: No, I do not understand. Explain. Consider that an order.
SPOCK: Captain, there are some things which transcend even the diskipline of the service.
KIRK: Would it help if I told you that I'll treat this as totally confidential?
SPOCK: It has to do with biology.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: Biology.
KIRK: What kind of biology?
SPOCK: Vulcan biology.
KIRK: You mean the biology of Vulcans? Biology as in reproduction? Well, there's no need to be embarrassed about it, Mister Spock. It happens to the birds and the bees.
SPOCK: The birds and the bees are not Vulcans, Captain. If they were, if any creature as proudly logical as us were to have their logic ripped from them as this time does to us. How do Vulcans choose their mates? Haven't you wondered?
KIRK: I guess the rest of us assume that it's done quite logically.
SPOCK: No. No. It is not. We shield it with ritual and customs shrouded in antiquity. You humans have no conception. It strips our minds from us. It brings a madness which rips away our veneer of civilisation. It is the pon farr. The time of mating. There are precedents in nature, Captain. The giant eelbirds of Regulus Five, once each eleven years they must return to the caverns where they hatched. On your Earth, the salmon. They must return to that one stream where they were born, to spawn or die in trying.
KIRK: But you're not a fish, Mister Spock. You're
SPOCK: No. Nor am I a man. I'm a Vulcan. I'd hoped I would be spared this, but the ancient drives are too strong. Eventually, they catch up with us, and we are driven by forces we cannot control to return home and take a wife. Or die.
KIRK: I haven't heard a word you've said, and I'll get you to Vulcan somehow.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Lieutenant, get me Admiral Komack at Starfleet Command, Sector Nine. Pipe it down to McCoy's office.
UHURA: Starfleet Command. Yes, sir.
CHEKOV: Mister Sulu, you don't think
SULU: Maybe you ought to plot a course back for Vulcan, just in case.

[Spock's quarters]
UHURA (voiceover): Communication to Mister Spock. Lieutenant Uhura here. The captain asked me to
SPOCK: Let me alone. Let me alone!

[Sickbay]
KOMACK (screen): Captain, you're making a most unusual request.
KIRK: I'm aware of that, sir, but it's of the utmost importance. You must give me permission to divert to Vulcan.
KOMACK (screen): But you refuse to explain why it is so important.
KIRK: I can't, sir, but believe me, I wouldn't make such a request
KOMACK (screen): Altair Six is no ordinary matter. That area is just putting itself together after a long interplanetary conflict. This inauguration will stabilize the entire Altair system. Our appearance there is a demonstration of friendship and strength which will cause ripples clear to the Klingon Empire.
KIRK: Sir, the delay would be, at most, a day. I can hardly believe that
KOMACK (screen): You will proceed to Altair Six as ordered. You have your orders. Starfleet out.
MCCOY: Well, that's that.
KIRK: No, it's not. I know the Altair situation. We would be one of three starships. Very impressive, very diplomatic, but it's simply not that vital.
MCCOY: You can't go off to Vulcan against Starfleet orders. You'll be busted
KIRK: I can't let Spock die, can I, Bones? And he will if we go to Altair. I owe him my life a dozen times over. Isn't that worth a career? He's my friend. Bridge. Navigation.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Bridge. Navigation.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Vulcan. Tell Engineering I want warp eight or better. Push her for all she'll take.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Course already plotted. Laying it in, sir.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: I see. Very well. Carry on, Mister Chekov. Kirk, out.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: Yes, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I had a most startling dream. You were trying to tell me something, but I couldn't hear you. It would be illogical for us to protest against our natures. Don't you think?
CHAPEL: I don't understand.
SPOCK: Your face is wet.
CHAPEL: I came to tell you that we are bound for Vulcan. We'll be there in just a few days.
SPOCK: Vulcan. Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: My name is Christine.
SPOCK: Yes, I know, Christine. Would you make me some of that plomeek soup?
CHAPEL: Oh, I'd be very glad to do that, Mister Spock.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge.
SPOCK: It is obvious that you have surmised my problem, Doctor. My compliments on your insight. Captain, there is a thing that happens to Vulcans at this time. Almost an insanity, which you would no doubt find distasteful.
KIRK: Will I? You've been most patient with my kinds of madness.
SPOCK: Then would you beam down to the planet's surface and stand with me? There is a brief ceremony.
KIRK: Is it permitted?
SPOCK: It is my right. By tradition, the male is accompanied by his closest friends.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I also request McCoy accompany me.
MCCOY: I shall be honored, sir.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain. We're standing by on Vulcan hailing frequencies, sir.
KIRK: Open the channel, Lieutenant. Vulcan Space Central, this is the USS Enterprise requesting permission to assume standard orbit.
VULCAN (voiceover): USS Enterprise from Vulcan Space Central. Permission granted. And from all of Vulcan, welcome. Is Commander Spock with you?
SPOCK: This is Spock.
VULCAN (voiceover): Standby to activate your central viewer, please.
CHAPEL: Doctor, what's going on?
T'PRING (screen): Spock, it is I.
SPOCK: T'Pring, parted from me and never parted, never and always touching and touched. We meet at the appointed place.
T'PRING (screen): Spock, parted from me and never parted, never and always touching and touched. I await you.
UHURA: She's lovely, Mister Spock. Who is she?
SPOCK: She is T'Pring. My wife.

[Vulcan]
SPOCK: This is the land of my family. It has been held by us for more than two thousand Earth years. This is our place of Koon-ut-kal-if-fee,
MCCOY: He called it Koon-ut what?
KIRK: He described it to me as meaning marriage or challenge. In the distant past, Vulcans killed to win their mates.
MCCOY: And they still go mad at this time. Perhaps the price they pay for having no emotions the rest of the time.
KIRK: It's lovely. I wish the breeze were cooler.
MCCOY: Yeah. Hot as Vulcan. Now I understand what that phrase means.
KIRK: The atmosphere is thinner than Earth.
MCCOY: I wonder when his T'Pring arrives.
SPOCK: The marriage party approaches. I hear them.
KIRK: Marriage party? You said T'Pring was your wife.
SPOCK: By our parents' arrangement. A ceremony while we were but seven years of age. Less than a marriage but more than a betrothal. One touches the other in order to feel each other's thoughts. In this way our minds were locked together, so that at the proper time, we would both be drawn to Koon-ut-kal-if-fee.
KIRK: Bones, you know who that is? T'Pau. The only person to ever turn down a seat on the Federation Council.
MCCOY: T'Pau. Officiating at Spock's wedding?
KIRK: He never mentioned that his family was this important.
T'PAU: Spock, are our ceremonies for outworlders?
SPOCK: They are not outworlders. They are my friends. I am permitted this.
SPOCK: This is Kirk.
KIRK: Ma'am.
T'PAU: And thee are called?
MCCOY: Leonard McCoy, ma'am.
T'PAU: Thee names these out worlders friends. How does thee pledge their behavior?
SPOCK: With my life, T'Pau.
T'PAU: What they are about to see comes down from the time of the beginning, without change. This is the Vulcan heart. This is the Vulcan soul. This is our way. Kah-if-farr.
T'PRING: Kal-if-fee!
KIRK: What is it? What happened?
T'PAU: She chooses the challenge.
MCCOY: With him?
T'PAU: He acts only if cowardice is seen. She will choose her champion.
KIRK: Spock?
T'PAU: Do not attempt to speak with him, Kirk. He is deep in the plak-tow, the blood fever. He will not speak with thee again until he has passed through what is to come. If thee wishes to depart, thee may leave now.
KIRK: We'll stay.
T'PAU: Spock chose his friends well.
MCCOY: Ma'am, I don't understand. Are you trying to say that she rejected him? That she doesn't want him?
T'PAU: He will have to fight for her. It is her right. T'Pring, thee has chosen the kal-if-fee, the challenge. Thee are prepared to become the property of the victor?
T'PRING: I am prepared.
T'PAU: Spock, does thee accept the challenge according to our laws and customs?
KIRK: Think Spock can take him?
MCCOY: I doubt it. Not in his present condition.
T'PAU: T'Pring, thee will choose thy champion.
T'PRING: As it was in the dawn of our days, as it is today, as it will be for all tomorrows, I make my choice. This one.
STONN: No! I am to be the one. It was agreed.
T'PAU: Be silent.
STONN: Hear me. I have made the ancient claim. I claim the right. The woman is
T'PAU: Kroykah!
STONN: I ask forgiveness.
T'PAU: Kirk? T'Pring is within her rights, but our laws and customs are not binding on thee. Thee are free to decline with no harm on thyself.
SPOCK: T'Pau.
T'PAU: Thee speaks?
SPOCK: My friend does not understand.
T'PAU: The choice has been made, Spock. It is up to him now.
SPOCK: He does not know. I will do what I must, T'Pau, but not with him! His blood does not burn. He is my friend!
T'PAU: It is said thy Vulcan blood is thin. Are thee Vulcan or are thee human?
SPOCK: I burn, T'Pau. My eyes are flame. My heart is flame. Thee has the power, T'Pau. In the name of my fathers, forbid. Forbid! T'Pau. I plead with thee! I beg!
T'PAU: Thee has prided thyself on thy Vulcan heritage. It is decided.
KIRK: What happens to Spock if I decline?
T'PAU: Another champion will be selected. Do not interfere, Kirk. Keep thy place.
MCCOY: You can't do it, Jim.
KIRK: I can't?
MCCOY: No. She said their laws and customs were not binding on you.
KIRK: And you said Spock might not be able to handle him. If I can knock Spock out without really hurting him
MCCOY: In this climate? If the heat doesn't get you, the thin air will. You can't do it!
KIRK: If I get into any trouble, I'll quit. And Spock wins, and honor is satisfied.
MCCOY: Jim, listen, if you
KIRK: Bones. He's my first officer and my friend. I disregarded Starfleet orders to bring him here. Another thing, that's T'Pau of Vulcan. All of Vulcan in one package. How can I back out in front of her?
T'PAU: It is done. Kirk, decide.
KIRK: I accept the challenge.
T'PAU: Here begins the act of combat for possession of the woman, T'Pring. As it was at the time of the beginning, so it is now. Bring forth the lirpa.
T'PAU: If both survive the lirpa, combat will continue with the ahn woon.
KIRK: What do you mean, if both survive?
T'PAU: This combat is to the death.
KIRK: Now wait a minute, ma'am. Who said anything about a fight to the death?
MCCOY: These men are friends. To force them to fight until one of them is killed
T'PAU: I can forgive such a display only once. Challenge was given and lawfully accepted. It has begun. Let no one interfere.
MCCOY: Spock! No!
T'PAU: Kroykah!
MCCOY: Is this Vulcan chivalry? The air's too hot and thin for Kirk. He's not used to it.
T'PAU: The air is the air. What can be done?
MCCOY: I can compensate for the atmosphere and the temperature with this. At least it'll give Kirk a fighting chance.
T'PAU: Thee may proceed.
MCCOY: You're going to have to kill him, Jim.
KIRK: Kill Spock? That's not what I came to Vulcan for, is it? What's that?
MCCOY: It's a tri-ox compound. It'll help you breathe. Now be careful!
KIRK: Sound medical advice.
T'PAU: The ahn woon.
T'PAU: Kroykah! MCCOY; Get your hands off of him, Spock! He's finished. He's dead.
T'PAU: I grieve with thee.
MCCOY: McCoy to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura here.
MCCOY: Have the transporter room stand by to beam up the landing party. As strange as it may seem, Mister Spock, you're in command now. Any orders?
SPOCK: Yes. I'll follow you up in a few minutes. You will instruct Mister Chekov to plot a course for the nearest Starbase where I must surrender myself to the authorities. T'Pring. Explain.
T'PRING: Specify.
SPOCK: Why the challenge, and why you chose my captain as your champion.
T'PRING: Stonn wanted me, I wanted him.
SPOCK: I see no logic in preferring Stonn over me.
T'PRING: You have become much known among our people, Spock. Almost a legend. And as the years went by, I came to know that I did not want to be the consort of a legend. But by the laws of our people, I could only divorce you by the kal-if-fee. There was also Stonn, who wanted very much to be my consort, and I wanted him. If your Captain were victor, he would not want me, and so I would have Stonn. If you were victor you would free me because I had dared to challenge, and again I would have Stonn. But if you did not free me, it would be the same. For you would be gone, and I would have your name and your property, and Stonn would still be there.
SPOCK: Logical. Flawlessly logical.
T'PRING: I am honored.
SPOCK: Stonn. She is yours. After a time, you may find that having is not so pleasing a thing after all as wanting. It is not logical, but it is often true. Spock here. Stand by to beam up. Live long, T'Pau, and prosper.
T'PAU: Live long and prosper, Spock.
SPOCK: I shall do neither. I have killed my captain and my friend. Energize.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Doctor, I shall be resigning my commission immediately, of course.
MCCOY: Spock, I
SPOCK: So I would appreciate your making the final arrangements.
MCCOY: Spock, I
SPOCK: Doctor, please, let me finish. There can be no excuse for the crime of which I'm guilty. I intend to offer no defense. Furthermore, I shall order Mister Scott to take immediate command of this vessel.
KIRK: Don't you think you better check with me first?
SPOCK: Captain! Jim!
SPOCK: I'm pleased to see you, Captain. You seem uninjured. I am at something of a loss to understand it, however.
KIRK: Blame McCoy. That was no tri-ox compound he shot me with. He slipped in a neural paralyzer. Knocked me out, simulated death.
SPOCK: Indeed.
MCCOY: Nurse, would you mind, please?
MCCOY: Spock, what happened down there? The girl? The wedding?
SPOCK: Ah, yes, the girl. Most interesting. It must have been the combat. When I thought I had killed the captain, I found I had lost all interest in T'Pring. The madness was gone.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain Kirk. Message from Starfleet Command, top priority.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Relay it, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Response to T'Pau's request for diversion of Enterprise to planet Vulcan

[Sickbay]
UHURA (voiceover): Hereby approved. Any reasonable delay granted. Komack, Admiral, Starfleet Command.
KIRK: Well, a little late, but I'm glad they're seeing it our way. How about that T'Pau? They couldn't turn her down. Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Altair Six. Leave orbit when ready. Kirk out.
MCCOY: There's just one thing, Mister Spock. You can't tell me that when you first saw Jim alive that you weren't on the verge of giving us an emotional scene that would have brought the house down. .
SPOCK: Merely my quite logical relief that Starfleet had not lost a highly proficient captain.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. I understand.
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain.
MCCOY: Of course, Mister Spock, your reaction was quite logical.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor.
MCCOY: In a pig's eye!
KIRK: Come on, Spock. Let's go mind the store.

[Bridge]
PALMER: The distress call definitely came from one of the solar systems in this sector.
KIRK: Can you pinpoint it any closer, Lieutenant?
PALMER: Negative. It was so badly garbled all we got was the name Constellation, then we lost it.
SULU: Sir, we're now within the limits of System L-370, but I can't seem to locate
SPOCK: Captain, sensors show this entire solar system has been destroyed. Nothing left but rubble and asteroids.
KIRK: But that's incredible. The star in this system is still intact. Only a nova could destroy like that.
SPOCK: Nonetheless, Captain, sensors show nothing but debris where we charted seven planets last year.
KIRK: Continue a search pattern.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SULU: Entering limits of System L-374, sir. Scanners show the same evidence of destruction.
KIRK: Every solar system in this sector blasted to rubble and still no sign of the Constellation. Matt Decker's in command. What could have happened to him?
SPOCK: Captain, the two inner most planets of this system appear to be intact.
PALMER: Sir, I'm picking up a ship's disaster beacon.
KIRK: Try to raise it, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: I have it on the sensors, Captain. By configuration, a starship stopped in space. She appears to be drifting.
PALMER: No answer, Captain. All I get is the automatic beacon.
SPOCK: Sensors not recording normal energy output.
KIRK: Approach course, Mister Sulu.
KIRK: It's the Constellation. Look at that.
SPOCK: She may have been wrecked by whatever destroyed these solar systems.
KIRK: She was attacked. Red alert! Red alert! Man your battle stations!
PALMER: Red alert. Red alert. Man your battle stations.
KIRK: Mister Sulu?
SULU: All phaser banks manned and ready, sir.
KIRK: Very good. Initiate a full sensor scan of the immediate area for any other vessel.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Palmer.
PALMER: I can't raise the Constellation, sir. I'm still getting the distress beacon, but there's heavy subspace interference. It's almost blocking the signal.
KIRK: Keep trying. Mister Spock, full evaluation of the damage to the Constellation.
SPOCK: All power plants dead, reserve energy banks operative at a very low power level.
KIRK: Life support systems?
SPOCK: Also operative at a low power level. The entire Bridge is damaged and uninhabitable. The rest of the ship seems able to sustain life.
KIRK: Radiation levels?
SPOCK: Normal, but subspace interference makes readings difficult.
SULU: No other vessels in the area, Captain. All scanners show clear.
KIRK: All hands, go to Yellow Alert. Stand by battle stations. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy, Mister Scott, and a damage control party report to me in the transporter room.
PALMER: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: We're going to board her. Mister Spock, you're in command.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.

[Constellation corridor]
WASHBURN: Radiation level normal. Atmospheric pressure eleven pounds per square inch.
CREWMAN: Filtration systems are out, sir.
SCOTT: The whole communication system looks to be shorted out, too, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, check the phaser banks. See if they've been fired. Bones, you come with me.
SCOTT: Come along, lads.

[Constellation Engineering]
WASHBURN: What a mess.

[Constellation Room]
KIRK: No clutter, no half-empty cups of coffee. Whatever happened didn't happen without a warning.

[Constellation Engineering]
WASHBURN: What do you think did it, sir?
SCOTT: I don't know, lad. But I want a full structural and control damage check, and I'm going to have a look at those engines.

[Constellation Room]
KIRK: The crew wasn't abducted, they just left. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Enterprise, Spock here.
KIRK: No survivors, no bodies either.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Is it possible they could have beamed down to one of the two planets?
SPOCK: Improbable, Captain. The surface temperature of the inner planet is that of molten lead. The other has an atmosphere poisonous to human life.

[Constellation Room]
KIRK: We'll continue our search. Kirk out.

[Constellation Corridor]
SCOTT: Captain, I've checked the engines. The warp drive is a hopeless pile of junk. The impulse engines are not too badly off. We ought to be able to do something with them.
KIRK: Phaser banks?
SCOTT: Exhausted. They didn't give up without a battle.
KIRK: But where are they? I can't imagine a man like Matt Decker abandoning ship while his life support systems were still operative.
SCOTT: Computer system is still intact. We can playback the duplicate Captain's Log from the auxiliary control room.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Matt. Matt, it's Jim Kirk.
MCCOY: Commodore? Commodore Decker?
KIRK: Matt? Matt.
DECKER: Kirk. It's Jim Kirk.
KIRK: What happened to your ship, Matt?
DECKER: A ship. Attacked. That, that thing.
KIRK: What thing? What was it?
DECKER: That
KIRK: Answer me! What was it? What happened, Matt?
MCCOY: Jim, give him a minute. He's in a state of shock.
SCOTT: Ready with the duplicate log, sir.
KIRK: Go.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4202.1. Exceptionally heavy subspace interference still prevents our contacting Starfleet to inform them of the destroyed solar systems we have encountered. We are now entering system L-374. Science Officer Masada reports the fourth planet seems to be breaking up. We are going to investigate.
KIRK: The fourth planet. Only two left now. Scotty, pull the microtapes from the sensor memory banks and beam them aboard to Spock. I want a full analysis, a complete report of what happened when they went in on that planet.
DECKER: We tried to contact Starfleet. No one heard. No one! We couldn't run.
KIRK: What happened to your crew?
DECKER: Oh, I had to beam them down. We were dead. No power, our phasers useless. I stayed behind, the last man. The Captain, the last man aboard the ship. That's what you're supposed to do, isn't it? And then it hit again and the transporter went out. They were down there, and I'm up here.
KIRK: What hit? What attacked you?
DECKER: They say there's no devil, Jim, but there is. Right out of hell, I saw it.
KIRK: Matt, where's your crew?
DECKER: On the third planet.
KIRK: There is no third planet.
DECKER: Don't you think I know that? There was, but not anymore. They called me. They begged me for help, four hundred of them. I couldn't. I couldn't.
SCOTT: Captain, Washburn has our report.
KIRK: Go.
WASHBURN: We made a complete check on structural and control damage, sir. As far as we can tell, something crashed through the deflectors and knocked out the generators. Somehow the antimatter in the warp drive pods has been deactivated.
KIRK: Deactivated? Scotty, could some kind of general energy dampening field do that, and would the same type of thing account for the heavy subspace interference?
SCOTT: Aye, that all adds up. But what sort of a thing could do all that?
DECKER: If you'd seen it, you'd know. The whole thing's a weapon. It must be.
KIRK: What does it look like?
DECKER: Well, it's miles long, with a maw that could swallow a dozen starships. It destroys planets, chops them into rubble.
KIRK: What is it, an alien ship? Or is it alive, or is it
DECKER: Both or neither. I don't know.
KIRK: Matt, your log stated that the fourth planet was breaking up. You went in to investigate.
DECKER: We saw this thing hovering over the planet, slicing out chunks of it with a force beam.
KIRK: Did you run a scanner check on it? What kind of a beam?
DECKER: Pure antiproton. Absolutely pure.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Unable to raise Starfleet Command due to heavy subspace interference.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SPOCK (voiceover): Attempting to remedy.
KIRK: What about the Constellation's tapes?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: She was attacked by what appears to be essentially a robot, an automated weapon of immense size and power. Its apparent function is to smash planets to rubble and then digest the debris for fuel. It is, therefore, self-sustaining as long as there are planetary bodies for it to feed on.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: A robot weapon that purposely destroys entire solar systems. Why?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. However, Mister Sulu has computed the path of the machine, using the destroyed solar systems as a base course. Projecting back on our star charts, we find that it came from outside, from another galaxy.
KIRK (voiceover): What is the projected course of this thing?
SPOCK: If it follows its present path, it will go through the most densely populated section of our galaxy.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Thank you. Stand by, Mister Spock. Kirk out.
MCCOY: This whole thing's incredible. A robot? A machine like that, who would build it?
KIRK: We don't know. An alien race, apparently from another galaxy.
MCCOY: But why?
KIRK: Bones, did you ever hear of a doomsday machine?
MCCOY: No. I'm a doctor, not a mechanic.
KIRK: It's a weapon built primarily as a bluff. It's never meant to be used. So strong, it could destroy both sides in a war. Something like the old H-Bomb was supposed to be. That's what I think this is. A doomsday machine that somebody used in a war uncounted years ago. They don't exist anymore, but the machine is still destroying.
DECKER: Oh, forget about your theories! That thing is on the way to the heart of our galaxy. What are you going to do about it?
KIRK: Take it easy.
MCCOY: The first thing we're going to do is get you back to the Enterprise.
DECKER: Oh, no, I stay here. I'm not leaving my ship!
KIRK: There's no ship to leave. It's a dead hulk! We'll take her in tow. I'll stay onboard and get her ready. You go back to the Enterprise with the doctor and let him help you.
DECKER: It's just that I, I, I never lost a command before.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Have the transporter room beam Doctor McCoy and Commodore Decker on board immediately.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK (voiceover): Red alert! Red alert!
MCCOY: Come on.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: It came up on us fast, Captain, but we seem able to maintain our distance.
KIRK (voiceover): We're blind here. What's it look like?
SPOCK: It looks very much like Commodore Decker's planet killer. And it is pursuing us.
SPOCK: We are more maneuverable, but it is gaining on us. Sensors indicate some kind of total conversion drive.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SPOCK (voiceover): No evidence of life, subspace interference level incredibly high.
KIRK: Whatever it is, we can't let it go beyond us to the next solar system. We have to stop it. If it's a robot, what are the chances of deactivating it?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I would say none, Captain. The energy generated by our power nacelles seems to attracts it. I doubt we could maneuver close enough without drawing a direct attack upon ourselves.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SPOCK (voiceover): I also believe the nature of this machine precludes the possibility of easy access to its control mechanisms.

[Bridge]
SULU: It's closing on us, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Closing, Captain.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: All right. Lower your deflector screens Long enough to beam us aboard.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK (voiceover): Transporter Room, stand by to beam landing party aboard.
KYLE: Ready to beam, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Evasive action, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Damage report, all stations.
KYLE (voiceover): Mister Spock, the transporter's out.
SPOCK: Affect repairs. Captain Kirk, come in please.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SPOCK: Captain, we've been attacked. The transporter is damaged. We're taking evasive action.
PALMER: Mister Spock, communication's damaged. We're unable to override interference.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SPOCK (voiceover): Damage in communications, Captain. Interference will
KIRK: Spock? Spock? Come in, Spock. Spock? We're stuck, blind, and deaf.
SCOTT: And paralyzed. No power.
KIRK: Well, we just can't stand around while our ship is being attacked. Scotty, you've got to get me some manoeuvering power.
SCOTT: I can't repair warp drive without a spacedock.
KIRK: Then get me impulse power. Half-speed, quarter-speed, anything. If we get this hulk moving, maybe we can do something.
SCOTT: Aye, the impulse engines are still in fair shape. I might coax them.
KIRK: Then get moving.
SCOTT: Come on, lad.
KIRK: Washburn, you get in there. Let's see what we can do about this viewing screen. I've got to find out what's happening out there.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: No casualties, Mister Spock. How are we doing?
SPOCK: We have outrun it, Doctor.
DECKER: Status report.
SPOCK: Impulse and warp engines operative, transporter and communications under repair. Random chance seems to have operated in our favor.
MCCOY: In plain, non-Vulcan English, we've been lucky.
SPOCK: I believe I said that, Doctor.
SULU: It's veering off, back on course for the next solar system. The Rigel colony, sir.
SPOCK: Evidently programd to ignore anything as small as a ship beyond a certain radius. We'll maintain a diskreet distance and circle back to pick up the Captain.
DECKER: You can't let that reach Rigel. Why, millions of innocent people would die.
SPOCK: I am aware of the Rigel system's population, Commodore, but we are only one ship. Our deflector shields are strained, our subspace transmitter is useless. Logically, our primary duty is to survive in order to warn Starfleet Command.
DECKER: Our primary duty is to maintain life and safety of Federation planets. Do you deny that?
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, you will lay in an evasive course back to the Constellation.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
DECKER: Belay that last order, helmsman. One hundred and eighty degree turn, hard about. We're going to attack.
SPOCK: You will carry out my last order, Mister Sulu.
DECKER: Mister Spock, I'm officially notifying you that I'm exercising my option under regulations as a Starfleet Commodore, and that I am assuming command of the Enterprise.
SPOCK: You have the right to do so, but I would advise against it.
DECKER: That thing must be destroyed.
SPOCK: You tried to destroy it once before, Commodore. The result was a wrecked ship and a dead crew.
DECKER: I made a mistake then. We were too far away. This time I'm going to hit it with full phasers at point-blank range.
SPOCK: Sensors show the object's hull is solid neutronium. A single ship cannot combat it.
DECKER: Mister Spock, that will be all. You have been relieved of command. Don't force me to relieve you of duty as well.
MCCOY: You can't let him do this, Spock.
DECKER: Doctor, you are out of line.
MCCOY: So are you, sir. Well, Spock?
SPOCK: Unfortunately, Starfleet Order 104, Section B, leaves me no alternative. Paragraph 1A clearly states
MCCOY: To blazes with regulations! You can't let him take command when you know he's wrong!
SPOCK: If you can certify Commodore Decker medically or psychologically unfit for command, I can relieve him under Section C.
MCCOY: I'll certify that right now.
SPOCK: You'll also be asked to produce your medical records to prove it.
MCCOY: Now, you know I haven't had time to run an examination on him.
SPOCK: Then your statement would not be considered valid.
DECKER: You may leave the Bridge, Doctor.
MCCOY: What about the Captain? We can't leave
DECKER: Doctor, you may leave the Bridge.
MCCOY: Spock, do something!
DECKER: Mister Spock knows his duty under regulations, Doctor. Do you? Hard about, helmsman. Course thirty two degrees, mark ten. Deflectors at full power. Ready on main phaser banks.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, the impulse engines' control circuits are fused solid.
KIRK (voiceover): What about the warp drive control circuits?
SCOTT: Aye, we can cross-connect the controls, but it'll make the ship almost impossible for one man to handle.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: You worry about your miracles, Scotty, I'll worry about mine. Get to work.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Washburn, try the 2G6 circuit.

[Bridge]
SULU: Closing fast.
SPOCK: Deflector shields at full power. They can't take much more of this.
DECKER: Helmsman, hold your course. Stand by all phaser banks.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Deflectors holding, but weakening. We must retreat, Commodore. The energy drain
DECKER: I'm in command here, Mister Spock. Maintain your course, helmsman. Get us in closer.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Ready to give it a try?
WASHBURN: Just one minute, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, how you doing?

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Controls are all hooked up, sir. We should have some power for you soon.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
WASHBURN: Try it now, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, I think What the devil's going on?

[Bridge]
DECKER: Fire!
SULU: Direct hit. It just bounced off.
SPOCK: Commodore, I urgently recommend immediate withdrawal.
DECKER: Recommendation noted. Maintain course. Fire!

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Enterprise, come in. Mister Spock, come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, where's that power?

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Coming, sir. If I push these impulse engines too hard in the condition they're in, they'll blow apart.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Washburn, get down to Engineering. Assist Mister Scott.
WASHBURN: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, push it right to the edge. This ship has got to manoeuver.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PALMER: Sir, Deck seven reports power failure in main energizers. Implementing emergency procedures. Severe casualties reported on decks three and four. Damage control party sealing off inner hull rupture.
SPOCK: It has ceased fire. We're being held in a tractor beam. We're being pulled inside, Commodore. You must veer off.
DECKER: Maintain phaser fire, helmsman.
SPOCK: We have lost warp power. If we don't break the tractor beam within sixty seconds, we never will.
DECKER: But don't you understand? We've got to destroy it!
SPOCK: That, sir, is illogical. It is suicide. Attempted suicide would be proof that you are psychologically unfit for command. If you don't veer off, I shall relieve you on that basis.
DECKER: Veer off.
SPOCK: Emergency impulse power.
SULU: We can't break loose! SPOCK; We need more power.
SULU: We haven't got it. We're being pulled inside.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Scotty, give me that power.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: You've got it, Captain. Just enough to move us. I can't do better.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: That'll do. Full ahead, Mister Scott.
KIRK: That's it, Mister Scott. Keep that power coming.

[Bridge]
DECKER: Full power astern.
SULU: Aye, sir. We still can't move.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Keep pouring it on, Scotty.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, I still don't know what we're doing.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: We're moving, the Enterprise isn't. Maybe that thing will see us and let the Enterprise go. If I only had some phasers.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Phasers? You've got 'em. I have one bank recharged.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Scotty, you've just earned your pay for the week. Stand by. Fire phasers.

[Bridge]
SULU: We're loose, Commodore.
DECKER: Good boy, Jim. Between the two of us, we'll kill that thing.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Mister Scott, it worked. Great. I think it's great. Scotty, get us out of here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: It's closing fast on the Constellation.
SULU: Standing by, sir.
SPOCK: Commodore, I suggest
DECKER: Kirk pulled us out of there by distracting it. Now it's our turn. Fire phasers. We did it! Hard about. Give me some distance.
SULU: We're moving away, Commodore.
SPOCK: This machine seems to have a programd defensive sphere. Any energy source entering that field is subject to attack.
DECKER: Mister Spock, status report.
SPOCK: Warp drive and deflectors will be out for a solar day. Repairs proceeding on transporter and communications.
SULU: It's closing with us again, sir.
DECKER: Maintain speed and distance.
SULU: It's sucking in space rubble from those destroyed planets. Refueling itself.
SPOCK: We can maintain this speed for only seven hours before we exhaust our fuel, but it can refuel itself indefinitely.
DECKER: Then we'll have to fight it now before it gets any stronger.
SPOCK: Illogical. We cannot destroy it. Therefore, we cannot save Rigel. We must transport the Captain and the others from the Constellation and escape this thing's subspace interference in order to warn Starfleet Command.
PALMER: Mister Spock, we've pierced the interference locally.
SPOCK: Can you raise Starfleet?
PALMER: No, sir, but I've got ship-to-ship communications back. Picking up Captain Kirk.
SPOCK: On audio, Lieutenant.
KIRK (voiceover): Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
DECKER: Mister Spock, I am still in command. I will speak for this ship. Enterprise to Kirk.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
DECKER (voiceover): Commodore Decker speaking.
KIRK: Matt. What's going on? Give me Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
DECKER: I'm in command here, Jim.
KIRK (voiceover): What happened to Spock?
DECKER: Nothing. I assumed command according to regulations

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
DECKER (voiceover): Since your first officer was reluctant to take aggressive action against the KIRK You mean you're the lunatic who's responsible for almost destroying my ship?

[Bridge]
DECKER: You are speaking to a senior officer, Kirk.
KIRK: Give me Spock.
DECKER: I told you, I am in command here, according to every rule in the book, Captain. Anything you have to say at all, you will say to me.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: There's only one thing I want to say to you, Commodore. Get my ship out of there.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Spock, ship status.
SPOCK: Commodore.
DECKER: Down here.
SPOCK: Warp drive out. Deflector shields down. Transporter under repair. We are on emergency impulse power.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: How long to repair warp drive?
SPOCK (voiceover): At least one solar day.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: At our present rate of consumption, we'll exhaust our impulse power long before then.
SULU: It's gaining on us, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Take evasive action, Mister Sulu.

[Bridge]
DECKER: I told you, I am in command here and I will give the orders, Captain. We're going to turn and attack.
KIRK (voiceover): Not with my ship, you don't.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Mister Spock, relieve Commodore Decker immediately. That's a direct order.

[Bridge]
DECKER: You can't relieve me and you know it. According to regulations

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Blast regulations! Mister Spock, I order you to assume command on my personal authority as Captain of the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Commodore Decker, you are relieved of command.
DECKER: I don't recognize your authority to relieve me.
SPOCK: You may file a formal protest with Starfleet Command, assuming we survive to reach a Starbase. But you are relieved. Commodore. I do not wish to place you under arrest.
DECKER: You wouldn't dare. You're bluffing.
SPOCK: Vulcans never bluff.
DECKER: No. No, I don't suppose that they do. Very well, Mister Spock. The Bridge is yours.
SPOCK: Captain, I have assumed command.
KIRK (voiceover): Good. Now, Mister Spock
SPOCK: One moment, sir. Commodore. I believe you are scheduled for medical examination. Mister Montgomery.
MONTGOMERY: Sir.
SPOCK: You will accompany the commodore to Sickbay.
MONTGOMERY: Aye, sir. Commodore?
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, change course. Seven zero mark two one.
SULU: Mark twenty one, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, we are taking an evasive course back to you. We will try to stay ahead of the object until we can transport you aboard.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Fine. Just make sure you stay ahead of it.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: I've hooked in ship's communication. The best I can give you on impulse is one third power. The shields are up but they won't last long.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Keep it going, Scotty, keep it going. Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes, sir.
KIRK: I'm plotting an intercept course. Will rendezvous with you at fourteen thirteen point seven hours.

[Bridge]
SULU: Mister Spock, someone's opening the shuttlecraft bay doors.
SPOCK: Shut them, Mister Sulu.
SULU: It's too late, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Why are you launching a shuttlecraft?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Whoever it is, Captain, has no authorisation. Lieutenant, raise the shuttlecraft.
PALMER: Enterprise to shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft.

[Shuttlecraft]
PALMER (voiceover): Enterprise to shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft. Come in, shuttlecraft.
DECKER: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Decker here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Commodore, I must insist that you return to the ship.

[Shuttlecraft]
DECKER: You said it yourself, Spock. There is no way to blast through the hull of that machine, so I'm going to take this thing right down its throat.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: This is Kirk. Matt, you'll be killed.

[Shuttlecraft]
DECKER: I've been prepared for death ever since I, ever since I killed my crew.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: No one expects you to die for an error in judgment.

[Shuttlecraft]
DECKER: The commander is responsible for the lives of his crew, and for their deaths. Well, I should have died with mine.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You cannot succeed, Commodore. Your only logical alternative is to return to the ship.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Matt. Matt, listen to me. You can't throw your life away like this. Matt, you're a starship commander. That makes you a valuable commodity.

[Shuttlecraft]
KIRK (voiceover): We need you, your experience, your judgment. Matt!

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: We're stronger with you than without you!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: He's gone. Constellation, come in, please.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain Kirk, come in please.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sir, may I offer my condolences on the death of your friend. It is most regrettable.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: It's regrettable that he died for nothing.

[Bridge]
SULU: Mister Spock, sensors indicate a minute drop in the machine's power emanations. Do you think the shuttlecraft explosion might have done some damage?
KIRK (voiceover): What about that, Spock? Is it possible?
SPOCK: The drop in power is definite, Captain but negligible. The object is still pursing us, thereby causing us to drain our power reserve at a much greater rate.
PALMER: Mister Spock, the transporter is now operational.
SPOCK: Transporter operational, Captain. Shall we beam you aboard?

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Negative.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Scott and I will stay here, but beam the damage control party aboard.
SPOCK: There's little to be gained by staying aboard the Constellation.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Except possibly the destruction of that thing out there. Carry out your orders, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Acknowledged. Transporter Room. Beam damage control party aboard.
KYLE (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Spock, listen. Maybe Matt Decker didn't die for nothing. He had the right idea but not enough power to do it. Am I correct in assuming that a fusion explosion of ninety seven megatons will result if a starship impulse engine is overloaded?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: No, sir. Ninety seven point eight three five megatons.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Ninety seven point eight three five. Will it be powerful enough to destroy that thing out there?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Its hull is pure neutronium. There is no known way of blasting through it.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Not through it, Spock, from inside it. Will it be enough?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Insufficient data. I shall try to take further sensor readings.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Do the best you can and make it fast. Kirk to Scott.

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Here, sir. The damage control party just beamed back to the Enterprise.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Good. Scotty, can you set the ship's impulse engines to overload?

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye. The shape the thing's in, it's hard to keep her from blowing.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]

[Constellation Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Set it and get up here as fast as you can.
SCOTT (voiceover): Right away.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: The object's neutronium hull makes sensor readings of the inner mechanism impossible.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Spock, you don't know?
SPOCK (voiceover): Correct.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, you're getting dangerously close to the planet killer.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: I intend to get a lot closer. I'm going to ram her right down that thing's throat.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Jim, you'll be killed, just like Decker.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: No. No, I don't intend to die, Mister Spock. We've rigged a delay detonation device. You'll have thirty seconds to beam me aboard the Enterprise before the Constellation's impulse engines blow.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your chances of survival are not promising. We don't even know if the explosion will be powerful enough.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: A calculated risk, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): There's another factor, Captain. The transporter is not working at one hundred percent efficiency.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Thirty seconds is very slim timing.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: A chance I'll have to take. Kirk out.
SCOTT: A cranky transporter's a mighty finicky piece of machinery to be gambling your life on, sir.
KIRK: What about the detonator?
SCOTT: I've linked it in with the impulse control system. It's armed now. Press this one. Thirty seconds later, poof! Once it's activated, there's no way to stop it.
KIRK: Understood. Mister Spock. Prepare to beam Scotty on board.
SPOCK (voiceover): Transporter, stand by.
SCOTT: Good luck, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: What's the matter with that thing?
KYLE: It's a power drain somewhere, sir. I almost lost you.
SCOTT: It'll never work like this. It's the main junction circuitry. I'll get it.
KYLE: Bridge. Transporter malfunction.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Transporter is out, Captain. You'll have to stand by.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: I can't. Power level's dropping too fast. You'd better hurry.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Jefferies tube]
SPOCK (voiceover): Mister Scott, speed is of the essence.

[Bridge]
SULU: He's two thousand miles from the planet killer and closing fast.

[Jefferies tube]
SCOTT: Bridge, transporter operational, but this jury-rigging won't last for long. He's got to come off now.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): I'll stand by here.
SULU: Fifteen hundred miles and closing.
SPOCK: Captain, transporter operational, but just barely.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Prepare to beam me aboard on my signal.

[Bridge]
SULU: One thousand miles and closing.
SPOCK: Transporter, stand by.
KYLE (voiceover): Standing by, sir.
SULU: Five hundred miles and closing.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Beam me aboard.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Energize.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Energizing. Bridge, it's shorted out again.

[Jefferies tube]
SCOTT: Och, what's wrong with it?

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
KIRK: Gentlemen, beam me aboard.
SPOCK (voiceover): We can't, Captain. Transporter is out again.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, twenty seconds to detonation.

[Jefferies tube]
SPOCK (voiceover): Mister Scott?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Mister Scott

[Jefferies tube]
SPOCK (voiceover): Try inverse phasing.

[Bridge]
SULU: Sixty, fifty, forty

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SULU (voiceover): Thirty.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I suggest you beam me aboard.

[Bridge]
SULU: Ten

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SULU (voiceover): Nine, eight

[Jefferies tube]
SULU (voiceover): Seven.
SPOCK (voiceover): Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Try her now, Mister Kyle.
SULU (voiceover): Six.

[Constellation Auxiliary Control]
SULU (voiceover): Five, four

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Bridge, we got him through!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Energy output zero. Radiation level normal.
SPOCK: Welcome aboard, Captain. Sensors show all energy sources deactivated. It's quite dead.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, ease us back to minimum headway. Conserve power as much as possible. Lieutenant Palmer, tell Mister Scott to expedite repairs on the warp drive. Poor Matt. He gave his life in an attempt to save others. Not the worst way to go.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. I presume your log will show that Commodore Decker died in the line of duty.
KIRK: Indeed it shall, Mister Spock. Ironic, isn't it? Way back in the 20th century, the H-Bomb was the ultimate weapon, their doomsday machine, and we used something like it to destroy another doomsday machine. Probably the first time such a weapon has ever been used for constructive purposes.
SPOCK: Appropriate, Captain. However, I can't help wondering if there are any more of those weapons wandering around the universe.
KIRK: Well, I certainly hope not. I found one quite sufficient.

[Cafe]
SCOTT: Captain, I think I'm going to like Argelius.
KIRK: Obviously a man of good taste.
SCOTT: You mean to tell me all these women, that all this is
KIRK: Yes, yes, yes. The Argelians think very highly of their pleasure.
MCCOY: That's an understatement if I ever heard one. This is a completely hedonistic society.
KIRK: Do you like her, Scotty?
SCOTT: Aye. Why shouldn't I?
KIRK: Good. I've invited her to join us at the table. I thought you might like to meet her.
SCOTT: Now that's what I call a real Captain. Always thinking of his men.
KIRK: Scotty, Scotty. In Argelius they use the lights.
SCOTT: Now no one has to tell an old Aberdeen pub-crawler how to applaud, Captain.
KIRK: Have one of our pillows?
SCOTT: 'Tis a fine foggy night tonight, and I doubt if anyone's ever told you of the marvelous fogs we have in Aberdeen.
KARA: Never a word, but I'm dying to learn.
SCOTT: Well then, why don't I show you? There's nothing like a walk in the fog with a bonny lass.
KARA: Or a handsome gentleman. Why don't we?
SCOTT: You don't mind, do you? I might even get back to the ship on time.
KIRK: We won't leave without you, Scotty. Relax and enjoy yourself. My work is never done.
MCCOY: My work, Jim. This is prescription stuff. Don't forget, the explosion that threw Scotty against a bulkhead was caused by a woman.
KIRK: Physically he's all right. Am I right in assuming that?
MCCOY: Oh, yes, yes. As a matter of fact, considerable psychological damage could have been caused. For example, his total resentment toward women.
KIRK: He seems he's overcoming his resentment.
MCCOY: Of course, in my professional opinion, when he gets back to the ship, he's going to hate you for making him leave Argelius. But then he will have lost total resentment toward women.
KIRK: Mission accomplished as far as Scotty is concerned. Bones, I know a little place across town where the women
MCCOY: Oh yes. I know the place. Let's go.

[Street]
MCCOY: She's dead, Jim.
KIRK: Stabbed, a dozen times. (And standing by a wall, groaning, with a bloody knife in his hand, is Montgomery Scott.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3614.9. Planet Argelius Two. While on therapeutic shore leave, Mister Scott has fallen under suspicion of having brutally murdered an Argelian woman. The chief city administrator, Mister Hengist, has taken charge of the investigation, but has learned little of value.

[Cafe]
HENGIST: I don't know what to say, gentlemen. Argelius is the last planet in the galaxy I'd expect a thing like this to happen.
KIRK: We're just as shocked as you are, Mister Hengist.
HENGIST: If this was my home planet, Rigel Four, I'd have a dozen investigators working on the matter, but they don't exist here.
MCCOY: You're not a native of Argelius, sir?
HENGIST: Oh, no. Argelius hires its administrative officers from other planets. The Argelians aren't very efficient, you know. Gentle, harmless people. Mister Scott. Mister Scott? Now, are you sure you've never seen this before?
SCOTT: I, I don't remember.
HENGIST: Really, sir. That is hardly helpful.
KIRK: Scotty, you left the cafe with the girl. Do you remember that? What happened next?
SCOTT: We were walking in the fog. I was up ahead trying to lead the way. I heard the girl scream. I remember starting to turn. I don't remember another thing.
KIRK: Scotty, you've got to remember.
MCCOY: Jim. If he says he can't remember, he probably doesn't. You know Scotty.
KIRK: I know a murder's been committed.
MCCOY: You don't think by any chance that Scotty
KIRK: It doesn't make any difference what I think.
MCCOY: But you don't just throw him to the wolves.
KIRK: Bones, I have a diplomatic responsibility. This happened under Argelian jurisdiction. If they want to arrest him, try him, even convict him, I have to go along with it.
MCCOY: But he's suffering from a severe concussion.
KIRK: We'll do what we can.
HENGIST: It's not promising, Captain. Mister Scott insists he remembers nothing, but my detector readings indicates that only his fingerprints are on the murder weapon.
KIRK: Yes. Mister Hengist, there were other people in the cafe about the time of the murder. Several of them left just before Mister Scott and the girl did.
HENGIST: So I've been informed by the staff. They're being located and we will question them. But the outlook for your friend is quite grim.
KIRK: What's the law in these cases?
JARIS: The law of Argelius is love.
HENGIST: Gentlemen, our prefect, Jaris. Sir, Captain Kirk, Doctor McCoy.
JARIS: And this is my wife, Sybo.
HENGIST: And this man is Scott, the one I sent you the message about.
JARIS: He does not look like a man capable of such an act. Still, it's been so long. Gentlemen, before our great awakening two hundred years ago, we had ways of learning the truth in such matters. We shall return to them.
MCCOY: The Argelian empathic contact?
JARIS: You know of this?
KIRK: Yes, we've heard of it. I assumed it was a lost art.
JARIS: My wife is a descendent of the ancient priestesses of our land. She has the ancestral gift. Gentlemen, I have come to invite you to my home.
HENGIST: Prefect, don't you think this should be handled in an official manner through my office?
JARIS: It shall be handled in an official manner, Mister Hengist, since I am the highest official. Gentlemen, let us proceed to my home where, with the aid of my wife, we shall learn the truth. Please.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: Depending on your wife's empathic abilities is all very well, Prefect, but there's only one way we can find out what it is Mister Scott cannot remember. Since you find it impossible to let us go back up to our ship, I can beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder.
MCCOY: Prefect, it will give us a detailed account of everything that's happened to Mister Scott in the last twenty four hours.
HENGIST: Oh, I'd advise against it, Prefect. This is purely an Argelian matter.
JARIS: My wife must meditate for a time before she's ready. I see no reason why we should not use that time to good advantage. Very well, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: Mister Spock, beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder, please. Use these co-ordinates.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Acknowledged. Co-ordinates received.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: Kirk out.
MCCOY: Prefect, the psycho-tricorder will require privacy to be effective.
JARIS: There is a small chamber below this room. Perhaps that will suffice. Captain, news of this frightful murder is spreading among my people. They're greatly disturbed. I have already heard talk of closing Argelius to space vehicles.
KIRK: Well, that would be most unfortunate. Argelian hospitality is well-known, as well as its strategic importance as a space port.
JARIS: Yes. I believe it's the only one in the quadrant. Captain.
HENGIST: There are other people we should question. Perhaps I should go expedite their arrival here?
JARIS: Yes, please do so, Mister Hengist. Anyone with any connection with this murder should be present at the ceremony.
KAREN: Lieutenant Karen Tracy reporting as ordered, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, I want a twenty four hour regressive memory check made on Mister Scott.
KAREN: Yes, Captain. Where shall I set up?
JARIS: If you'll Just follow me, Lieutenant.
KIRK: Scotty, co-operate completely with Lieutenant Tracy. Maybe we'll clear this thing up.
SCOTT: I certainly hope so, sir. I can't stand this not knowing.
MCCOY: Captain, under normal conditions, Scotty would have never done such a thing.
KIRK: But that blow on the head. It could put all his previous behavior patterns into the junk heap.
MCCOY: Of course, there's another possibility.
KIRK: Explain.
MCCOY: Hysterical amnesia. When a man feels guilty about something, something too terrible to remember, he blots it out of his conscious memory.
JARIS: Are you ready, Sybo?
SYBO: I am ready. May I have the knife, please?
JARIS: Certainly. Among other gifts, Sybo has the ability to receive impressions from inanimate objects. Do you have it, Captain?
KIRK: The knife? No.
JARIS: But I put it here when we arrived. It's gone.

[Chamber]
KIRK: Scotty.
MCCOY: She's dead, Jim. Just like the other one.
KIRK: Stabbed over and over again.

[Jaris' home]
JARIS: Drink this. An Argelian stimulant, Doctor. Quite effective and quite harmless.
MCCOY: Go ahead, Scotty.
SCOTT: Lieutenant? Captain? Where's
KIRK: Lieutenant Tracy is dead, Scott. You were found alone in the room.
SCOTT: Dead? But I
KIRK: What happened down there?
SCOTT: I was sitting there. She was taking her readings, and now I'm sitting here.
MCCOY: Is that all that happened?
SCOTT: I tell you, I don't remember. I must have passed out.
MCCOY: It could be, Jim. That head injury.
KIRK: That head injury. Think, Scotty.
SCOTT: Captain, I've been trying. I can't even believe this is really happening.
KIRK: There's no way into that place from up here. Prefect, is there another entrance to that chamber?
JARIS: Yes, there's a door that leads into the garden, but it's been locked for years.
MCCOY: Locks can be picked, Jim.
KIRK: Check it.
HENGIST: Prefect, both of these men were at the cafe the night of the murder.
KIRK: Where've they been during the past few minutes?
HENGIST: Captain, if you don't mind please.
KIRK: There's been another murder, Hengist. One of my crew.
JARIS: The same as Kara.
HENGIST: Why, that's terrible. You, my men picked you up near there. What were you doing?
MORLA: Please, I know nothing about it. I didn't kill anyone.
HENGIST: Well, how was the girl killed?
KIRK: Stabbed. And there's no sign of the weapon.
HENGIST: If only I had facilities.
KIRK: You. You were a musician at the cafe. You played for the murdered girl.
TARK: Since she was a little girl, she danced for me. She was my daughter. Prefect, how could this thing have happened here? The man who did it must be found. He must be punished.
KIRK: And you. You left the cafe before Scott and Kara.
JARIS: Is this true? Who are you?
MORLA: Morla of Cantaba Street, Prefect. I was there. I have nothing to hide.
KIRK: Did you know Kara?
TARK: Of course he knew her. They were to be married, but he behaved disgracefully. Unheard of. He was jealous of her.
JARIS: That is very disquieting.
MORLA: I know it was wrong, but I just couldn't help myself. I loved her, and when she went over to the table with these men, I could not stand to watch, so I left and went home.
KIRK: Jealousy has often been a motive for murder.
JARIS: Yes, I know. That is why the emotion is so strongly disapproved of here.
MORLA: Prefect, I didn't kill anyone. I couldn't.
JARIS: We shall see, Morla.
MCCOY: Sorry, Jim. The lock may or may not have been picked. It would be hard to tell even with the tricorder.
KIRK: Can you prove you went directly home?
HENGIST: Captain, may I continue with the questions please?
KIRK: Well get on with it, man. Just don't stand there.
JARIS: Captain, Captain. You're behaving very much like a man who is desperately trying anything to save his friend. Would you be as desperate to save Argelius as a space port for your Starfleet?
KIRK: Well of course I'm trying to save my friend, if he's innocent. And he hasn't been proven guilty.
HENGIST: Need I remind you of the circumstances, Captain? In both cases, your friend Scott was diskovered over the body and later claimed to remember nothing.
SYBO: I am ready, Jaris.
JARIS: Gentlemen, sit down please.
KIRK: On one condition, Prefect. That the room be sealed so that no one can leave or enter while the ceremony is going on.
JARIS: The room is sealed.
SCOTT: Captain, you mean my neck is going to have to depend on some spooky mumbo jumbo?
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain. May I have a word with you?
KIRK: Yes. Excuse me, gentlemen. Yes, Mister Spock?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Concerning the situation you related to us. In my opinion, the Argelian empathic contact is an interesting phenomenon, but the technique is not sound enough to risk a man's life.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: What do you suggest, Mister Spock?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Simply that we beam Mister Scott on board the Enterprise and employ our computers to learn the truth.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: These are a proud people. They have their own customs, their own laws, and while we're here we're subject to them. It is absolutely imperative that this matter be resolved according to Argelian law. Is that clear?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Quite clear, Captain.

[Jaris' home]
KIRK: I don't like it any more than you do, Spock, but there's nothing we can do about it. Kirk out,
SYBO: Let us begin. Let the circle not be broken. Concentrate upon the flame which burns upon the altar of truth. Yes, there is something here. Something terrible. I feel its presence. Fear, anger, hatred. Anger feeds the flame. Oh! Oh! There is evil here. Monstrous, terrible evil. Consuming hunger. Hatred of all that lives. Hatred of women. A hunger that never dies. It is strong, overpowering. An ancient terror. It has a name. Beratis, Kesla, Redjac! Devouring all life, all light. A hunger that will never die! Redjac! Redjac! (The lights go out, and she screams. When the lights come on again, the flame has gone out. Scott is standing holding Sybo in his arms, then he lets her go and she falls forward across McCoy's lap. There is a knife in her back. Later...)
KIRK: Three murders, and Scotty the only possible answer each time.
MCCOY: I don't care what the circumstances indicate, Jim. Scotty simply could not have done it.
KIRK: Normally, no, but that blow on his head could
SCOTT: No, Captain. KIRK Scotty, I'm sorry. You don't even remember whether you did it or not.
HENGIST: I agree with you, Captain. I'm perfectly satisfied Mister Scott is guilty.
KIRK: But not responsible.
HENGIST: That is unproven, sir.
KIRK: We can prove it, if he's insane.
JARIS: Gentlemen, please. How could any man do such monstrous things?
KIRK: That's what we hope to find out, sir.
JARIS: Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Sir, I swear to you I did not kill your wife or the other ladies.
HENGIST: By your own admission, you don't know whether you did or didn't. Your so-called failing memory
KIRK: Mister Hengist. On the Enterprise, we can make a recording of the registrations of Mister Scott's conscious and subconscious mind. They will tell us what happened to him in the recent past.
MCCOY: There would be no room for doubt. We would know. And after all, that's what we're after, isn't it, Prefect? To know?
JARIS: You, sir, claim to remember nothing about the murders.
SCOTT: Aye.
JARIS: If this is so, you may have killed without knowing it. Will your machines tell us this?
KIRK: No doubt will remain.
JARIS: Very well. We will go to your ship, and he who is guilty will face the ancient penalties, barbaric and horrible though they may be. The ancient penalty for murder was death by slow torture. That law has never been changed. Do you understand that, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Aye. I understand.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3615.4. With Mister Scott in a technical state of arrest, we have beamed aboard the Enterprise to continue the investigation.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Each testifier will sit here, place his hand on this plate. Any deviation from factual truth will be immediately detected and relayed to this computer which will in turn notify us. Doctor McCoy has already fed the computer his medical reports. Our laboratory experts are examining the murder weapon and will give their data to the computers for analysis. Shall we begin?
KIRK: Mister Scott, will you take the stand?
KIRK: Computer, identify verification.
COMPUTER: Working. Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott. Serial number SE-19754-T. Verified.
KIRK: Subject's present physical condition.
COMPUTER: Working. Subject recently received severe blow on skull. Damage healing. Some peripheral abnormalities.
KIRK: Sufficient abnormalities to account for periods of functional amnesia?
COMPUTER: Working. Negative.
MCCOY: Captain, I don't see how that can be.
KIRK: Unless Scotty's lying about his loss of memory.
SCOTT: I'm not lying, Captain. I don't remember a thing about the first two murders.
KIRK: Computer, accuracy scan.
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
SCOTT: Captain? I didn't black out when Mister Jaris' wife was killed.
KIRK: All right, Scotty, let's have it.
SCOTT: We were holding hands. When the lights went out, the circle was broken. I heard the poor lady scream, and as I was near the head of the table anyway I went toward her. But there was something in my way.
KIRK: Something? You mean someone.
SCOTT: No, Captain, some thing. Cold, it was, like a stinking draft out of a slaughterhouse, but it wasn't really there. Like it. If you know what I mean.
KIRK: Computer.
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
KIRK: All right. Let's hit it on the head. Scotty, did you kill Sybo?
SCOTT: No, Captain. That I'm sure of.
HENGIST: He's been saying that right along. It means no more now than it did before.
KIRK: Scotty, lie to me. How old are you?
SCOTT: Twenty two sir.
COMPUTER: Inaccurate. Inaccurate. Data in error.
KIRK: After the lights went out, Mister Scott, who was holding your hand?
SCOTT: Morla on the one side and you on the other, sir.
MORLA: But that doesn't mean anything, Captain, with a room that small. The lights were out. Anyone would've had time to kill the lady.
HENGIST: But I remind you we found Mister Scott holding her in his arms, the knife still I'm sorry, sir, but I must. The knife still in her back and blood on his hands.
KIRK: The verifier showed that he was telling the truth when he said he didn't kill her.
HENGIST: There were two other women murdered.
KIRK: Mister Scott. Did you kill Kara?
SCOTT: I don't remember.
KIRK: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy?
SCOTT: I don't remember.
KIRK: Computer, accuracy scan.
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
JARIS: All that proves is that he's telling the truth when he says he doesn't remember.
HENGIST: This is a waste of time.
KIRK: After we take the testimony here, we'll run a psycho-tricorder analysis of Mister Scott's memory, which is what we wanted to do on the surface. That will give us a complete record. Will that satisfy you, Mister Hengist?
HENGIST: Well, if you can convince me that the machine is incapable of error, and if it shows he did not kill the women.
KIRK: There will be no error. As for the rest of it, the readings will show. You can step down, Mister Scott, if there are no objections.
HENGIST: I object to the entire procedure.
JARIS: Mister Hengist, we are here on my authority. We will co-operate.
HENGIST: Prefect, I know you mean well, but I've had experience
JARIS: For the time being, we will accept Captain Kirk's explanation of the machine's accuracy as factual. I do, however, reserve to myself the right to make the final determination.
KIRK: We can ask no more. Mister Morla, will you take the stand?
KIRK: Where were you at the time that Kara was murdered?
MORLA: I'm not sure. Walking home, I assume. I was angry.
SPOCK: Anger is a relative state, sir. Were you angry enough to do violence?
MORLA: I've never done violence in my life. I don't think I could. You've got to believe me. I wouldn't kill her. I couldn't. I loved her, and she loved me.
TARK: That's not true! He might think she loved him, but she didn't. She told me. He was jealous. All the time. They fought constantly.
KIRK: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy?
MORLA: No.
KIRK: Did you kill Sybo?
MORLA: No.
KIRK: Computer, verification scan.
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account, though some statements subjective. No physiological changes.
KIRK: All right, Mister Morla, I think you can step down now. Sybo spoke of a hunger that never dies. Something that thrives on fear, terror, death. Mister Spock, maybe we're going about it in the wrong way. Let's assume that Sybo was a sensitive. That she did sense something, something evil.
SPOCK: Sensitivity of certain Argelian women is a documented fact, Captain.
JARIS: My poor Sybo's talent was genuine, gentlemen. What she told you was true.
KIRK: All right, then, what was it she said, exactly? A monstrous evil, ancient terror.
MCCOY: That devours all life and light.
KIRK: She said something else, words that didn't make sense.
MCCOY: Yes. Redjac, Beratis and, er, Kesla.
KIRK: Obscure, meaningless words.
SPOCK: To us, perhaps, but to the computer?
KIRK: Ah. Mister Spock, check them out.
SPOCK: Computer, linguistic bank. Definition of following word. Redjac.
COMPUTER: Working. Negative finding.
SPOCK: There is no such word in the linguistics bank?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
SPOCK: Scan all other banks.
COMPUTER: Working. Affirmative. A proper name.
SPOCK: Define.
COMPUTER: Redjac. Source Earth, nineteenth century. Language, English. Nickname for mass murderer of women. Other Earth synonym, Jack the Ripper.
KIRK: Jack the Ripper?
HENGIST: That's ridiculous. He lived hundreds of years ago.
TARK: A man couldn't survive all these centuries.
JARIS: Just before she died, my wife said, it is a hunger that never dies.
TARK: But all men die.
KIRK: Yes, all men die. And Jack the Ripper couldn't be alive if he were a man. But everything we've uncovered points to Jack the Ripper, which is an impossibility, isn't it? Or is it?
SPOCK: Humans and humanoids make up only a small percentage of the life forms we know of. There are entities possessed of extremely long life spans, virtually immortal.
KIRK: We know that someone or something killed three women. If it's impossible for it to be human, it has to be something else. Something driven to kill.
MCCOY: Sybo said it feeds on death.
SPOCK: In the strict scientific sense, Doctor, we all feed on death. Even vegetarians.
MCCOY: Yes, but she said more than that. Not just death, but fear. She said it also feeds on fear.
SPOCK: Which would tend to support the proposition that the murderer was not human. Deriving sustenance from emotion is not unknown in the galaxy, and fear is among the strongest and most violent of the emotions.
HENGIST: Surely, Prefect, this has gone far enough. Someone, some man has killed three women. We have the prime suspect in our hands. Are we going to let him go and start chasing ghosts?
KIRK: No, Mister Hengist, not ghosts. Possibly not human, but not ghosts. Mister Spock, check out the possibilities.
SPOCK: Computer, digest log recordings for past five solar minutes. Correlate hypotheses. Compare with life forms register. Question. Could such an entity within diskussed limits exist in this galaxy?
COMPUTER: The Drella of Alpha Carinae Five derives nourishment from the emotion of love. There is sufficient precedent for existence of creature, nature unknown, which could exist on emotion of fear.
SPOCK: Computer, extrapolate most likely composition of such entity.
SPOCK: Working. To meet with specified requirements, entity would exist without form in conventional sense. Most probable mass of energy of highly cohesive electromagnetic field.
KIRK: Computer, could the described entity assume physical form?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Precedent, mellitus, cloud creature of Alpha Majoris One.
HENGIST: Fairy tales. Ghosts and goblins.
KIRK: No, I've seen the mellitus myself. In its natural state, it's gaseous. When it's at rest, it's solid. Mister Spock, let's assume the existence of this creature.
SPOCK: I point out that Jack the Ripper slew at will in the heart of the most populous city of old Earth and was never identified.
KIRK: Doesn't seem likely, does it?
SPOCK: I suggest the possibility of a hypnotic screen, which blinds all but the victim to the presence of the killer.
JARIS: Is that possible?
MCCOY: Extremely possible There are many such examples that exist in nature.
HENGIST: This is fantasy! We all know the murderer is sitting right here. You're trying to cloud the issue. I've got a mind to
JARIS: I am satisfied the course of this investigation is valid enough. Please be seated, Mister Hengist.
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock, what do we have? A creature without form, that feeds on horror and fear, that must assume a physical shape to kill.
SPOCK: And I suspect preys on women because women are more easily and more deeply terrified, generating more sheer horror than the male of the species.
KIRK: Computer. Criminological files. Cases of unsolved mass murders of women since Jack the Ripper.
COMPUTER: Working. 1932. Shanghai, China, Earth. Seven women knifed to death. 1974, Kiev, USSR, Earth. Five women knifed to death. 2105. Martian colonies. Eight women knifed to death. 2156. Heliopolis, Alpha Eridani Two. Ten women knifed to death. There are additional examples.
SPOCK: Captain, those places are aligned directly between Argelius and Earth.
KIRK: Yes. When man moved out into the galaxy, that thing must've moved with him. Computer, identify the proper names Kesla and Beratis.
COMPUTER: Working. Kesla. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Deneb Two. Beratis. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Rigel Four. Additional data. Murders on Rigel Four occurred one solar year ago.
KIRK: You come from Rigel Four.
HENGIST: Well, many people do. It's not a crime.
KIRK: No, but what we're investigating is. Would you mind taking the stand, Mister Hengist?
HENGIST: I will not.
JARIS: Mister Hengist.
HENGIST: Prefect, this has gone far enough. I will not take the stand.
SPOCK: I can appreciate your position, sir. You are in charge of civil disturbances locally. If you are the entity for which we search, what better position from which to kill with impunity?
MCCOY: Just after you left Jaris' house, we diskovered the murder knife was missing.
KIRK: And you were unaccounted for when Lieutenant Tracy was murdered.
SPOCK: An entity which feeds on fear and terror would find a perfect hunting ground on Argelius, a planet without violence, where the inhabitants are as peaceful as sheep. The entity would be as a hungry wolf in that fold.
HENGIST: Gentlemen, I know something of the law. You're engaging in sheer speculation.
KIRK: Perhaps. Mister Spock. The murder weapon.
SPOCK: Computer. Report on analysis of Exhibit A.
COMPUTER: Working. Exhibit A on visual. Composition of blade, boridium. Composition of handle, murinite. Details of carving on handle conform to folk art forms, indicating place of origin.
SPOCK: Specify. Point of origin.
COMPUTER: Artifact produced by hill people of Argus River region, planet Rigel Four.
KIRK: Now then, Mister Hengist
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim.
KIRK: But that's impossible.
VOICE (voiceover): Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac!
SPOCK: The computer will not respond to these controls. The entity is unquestionably controlling it.
KIRK: And the computer controls the ship.
VOICE (voiceover): Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac!
MCCOY: Scotty, give me a hand.
SPOCK: It's no use, Captain. The bypass circuits are blocked.
KIRK: Audio cut off, Spock.
SCOTT: Captain!
TANKRIS: What's happening, Captain?
JARIS: What does it mean?
KIRK: It means that thing can control the entire operation of the ship, including the life support systems.
MORLA: You mean it could kill us all?
SPOCK: Indeed, it will try, but not immediately. We know it feeds on fear and terror. There are nearly four hundred and forty humans aboard this ship. Surely it will try to breed fear and terror before it kills.
KIRK: All hands, this is the captain. Stay at your posts. Remain calm. Captain out. Bones. What's the sedative situation?
MCCOY: I've got some stuff that would tranquilize an active volcano.
KIRK: Good. Start distribution immediately. The longer we can hold back that fear, the more time we'll have to get that thing out of the computer. Prefect, you'll all be safer here. Spock, come with me.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Spock, don't you have a compulsory scan unit built into the computer banks?
SPOCK: Yes we do, Captain, but with the entity in control
KIRK: Aren't there certain mathematical problems which simply cannot be solved?
SPOCK: Indeed. If we could focus the attention of the computer on one of them.
KIRK: That ought to do it.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Spock!
SPOCK: Apparently our friends learned very quickly.
KIRK: Too quickly. Bridge.
SPOCK: Freefall!
KIRK: Out of control. Put it on manual. Bridge.
KIRK: That was due to be next. Life-support malfunction.
SPOCK: We don't have much time, Captain.
KIRK: You said it yourself, Spock. It wants terror, not just death.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, the life-support system override jammed.
KIRK: All right. Man your station, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
VOICE (voiceover): Captain, you're wasting your time.
KIRK: Cut that thing off.
VOICE (voiceover): You and all aboard your ship are about to die!
KIRK: Try and cut that thing off.
SULU: This is the first time I heard a malfunction threaten us.
KIRK: Man your post, Mister Sulu. Prepare your manual overrides. You may need them.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Normal environmental levels have been restored, Captain, but it will not last long. A few hours at best.
KIRK: That should be enough time. Let's get at it.
SULU: What's going on, Captain?
KIRK: Never mind, Mister Sulu.
KIRK: Tranquilizer?
NURSE: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Everyone, including yourself.
NURSE: Yes, sir.
VOICE: You cannot stop me now, Captain. It will do you no good. I control all circuits. You cannot silence me. You cannot reach me. Your manual overrides are extremely limited in life.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Proceeding, Captain, but I will need some time.
KIRK: Yes, I know.
VOICE (voiceover): Soon all control will be restored to me! There is nothing you can do to prevent it!
KIRK: If you destroy this ship, you destroy yourself.
VOICE (voiceover): I am without ending. I have existed from the dawn of time, and I shall I live beyond its end! In the meantime, I shall feed, and this time I do not need a knife. You will all die horribly in searing pain!
SPOCK: It is attempting to generate terror, Captain.
VOICE (voiceover): I can cut off your oxygen and suffocate you!
SULU: Captain? Who ever he is, he sure talks gloomy.
KIRK: Man your post, Mister. If any of the other systems go out, switch to manual override, and above all, don't be afraid.
SULU: With an armful of this stuff, I wouldn't be afraid of a supernova.
SPOCK: Ready.
KIRK: Implement.
SPOCK: Computer, this is a Class A compulsory directive. Compute to the last digit the value of pi.
VOICE (voiceover): No, no, no, no! No, no!
SPOCK: As we know, the value of pi is a transcendental figure without resolution. The computer banks will work on this problem to the exclusion of all else until we order it to stop.
KIRK: Yes, that should keep that thing busy for a while. The Argelians will be the first to panic. Let's get back to the briefing room.
SULU: I wonder who it is we're not supposed to be afraid of.

[Briefing room]
SCOTT: Well, sir?
KIRK: I doubt very much whether the computers will be inhabited by more than a group of figures for a while.
SPOCK: There is resistance, Captain, but the directive is succeeding. Bank after bank is turning to the problem.
MCCOY: If you drive it out of the computers, it'll have to go somewhere else.
KIRK: How are you doing?
MCCOY: I'm almost finished. Just Jaris and me.
SPOCK: Complete computer control, Captain. The entity has fled.
KIRK: Yes, but where to? Bones, what would happen if that thing entered a tranquilized body?
MCCOY: Well, it might take up knitting, but nothing more violent than that.
KIRK: You say everyone's had a shot but you and Jaris?
MCCOY: And you and Mister Spock, Captain.
KIRK: Well, I'm willing to take a chance on Mister Spock. Better give yourself a shot, Doc.
MCCOY: No, I don't think so. I think I ought to stay clear.
KIRK: Do as I say.
KIRK: Extend your arm, Mister Jaris.
JARIS: No, no, kill you all! Die! Make you suffer!
HENGIST: Everybody keep back or I'll kill her! I'll kill her! Keep back!
MCCOY: You'd better be careful. You're going to hurt somebody with that thing.
HENGIST: You'll suffer! You'll suffer. I'll kill all of you.
KIRK: Let's get him to the Transporter Room, quick!
HENGIST: You'll die, die, die. Everybody will die.

[Corridor]
HENGIST: Kill, kill, kill you all.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Deep space. Full power. Widest angle of dispersion. Maintain.
KYLE: No need to get excited, Captain. I'll do it.
KIRK: You do it, Spock.
HENGIST: Everybody die. You'll all suffer.
KYLE: You didn't have to shove me, Mister Spock. I'd have gotten round to it.
MCCOY: Well, Jaris is all right.
SCOTT: What did you do with that thing, Captain? Did you send it back to the planet?
KIRK: No. We beamed it out into open space, Scotty. Widest possible dispersion.
MCCOY: That thing can't die.
SPOCK: Possibly, Doctor. Its consciousness may continue for some time, consisting of billions of separate bits of energy, floating forever in space, powerless.
KIRK: But it will die finally. You seem very happy about the whole thing.
SCOTT: Why not? For a while there I didn't know whether I was innocent or guilty.
KIRK: Bones, how long will it take for this tranquilizer to wear off?
MCCOY: I don't know. Five or six hours. I gave them a pretty big shot, Jim.
KIRK: Yes, I can see that. Well Mister Spock, for the next five or six hours, we're going to have the happiest crew in space. Of course, we won't get much work done.
SPOCK: Captain, since you came to Argelius to rest, I suggest you take advantage of the opportunity.
KIRK: That's a splendid idea, Mister Spock. I know a cafe where the women are so
MCCOY: I know the place, Jim.
SCOTT: Let's go see!
KIRK: You, gentlemen? In your condition? Don't be ridiculous. Mister Spock, this cafe has women that are so. No, I guess not. Alone?
KIRK: Gentlemen.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Any response from the Malurians, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Nothing since their original distress call, sir.
KIRK: What about the Federation science team working there? Doctor Manway had a special transmitter.
UHURA: There's nothing, sir. I'm scanning all frequencies.
KIRK: They have to answer.
SPOCK: Captain. They will not answer. The long-range sensor sweep of this system reveals no sign of life.
KIRK: That can't be. The last census reported a total inhabitation of more than four billion people.
SPOCK: I register no life readings at all, sir.
KIRK: That's impossible. What could have happened?
SPOCK: We would have known in advance of any system-wide catastrophe, and in the event of an interplanetary war, there would be considerable radioactive residue. Our instruments show only normal background radiation.
KIRK: Any other possibilities?
SPOCK: Unknown, sir. Sensor readings would have revealed the presence of any disease organisms. They do not. In addition, we received the routine report from this system only a week ago. Even the Symbalene blood burn does not act that swiftly.
SULU: Captain, shields just snapped on. Something heading in at multiwarp speeds.
KIRK: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: An extremely powerful bolt of energy, Captain.
KIRK: Full power to the shields, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Giving them all we got.
KIRK: All hands, Red Alert. Phaser banks stand by. Photon torpedoes to Condition Red, Condition Red.
SULU: It's going to hit.
SCOTT: Shields still holding, sir.
KIRK: Good.
SPOCK: Temporarily, Captain. Our shields absorbed energy equivalent to ninety of our photon torpedoes.
KIRK: Ninety?
SPOCK: I may add, the energy used repulsing this first attack reduced our shielding power twenty percent.
UHURA: First attack, sir?
KIRK: I think we can expect others, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: We can resist three more such attacks. The fourth will shatter our shields completely.
KIRK: Mister Spock, pinpoint the source. Mister Sulu, evasive maneuvers.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant, contact Starfleet Command. Patch in my log. Tell them what has happened. Tell them the entire Malurian race seems to have been destroyed by an unknown agency, and that we are under attack by an unidentified force.
KIRK: Helmsmen, I said evasive maneuvers.
SULU: We're losing power, sir.
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: I'm having to divert the warp engine power into the shields, sir, if you want the protection.
KIRK: Mister Spock, speed of those bolts.
SPOCK: Approximately warp fifteen, Captain.
KIRK: Then we can't out run them. Good, Scotty. You're doing the right thing. Source, Spock.
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. Nothing within sensor range. Something now, Captain. Very small. Bearing one two three degrees, mark one eight. Range ninety thousand kilometers.
KIRK: That's our target, Mister Sulu. Prepare photon torpedo.
SCOTT: Shields still holding, sir, but the drain on the engines is reaching the critical point. Ach, we lost warp maneuvering power. Switching to impulse.
SULU: Photon torpedoes armed, sir.
KIRK: Has the target changed location, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: No, sir. Holding steady.
KIRK: Ready photon torpedo number two, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
SULU: Torpedo away. Direct hit.
SPOCK: No effect. Target absorbed full energy of our torpedo.
KIRK: Absorbed it? There must be damage to your instruments, Spock .
SPOCK: They are in good working order, Captain.
KIRK: But what could have absorbed that much energy and survived? Lieutenant, try to make contact.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
SULU: Sir, they've fired another.
KIRK: Can we take it, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: That's problematical, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, shields are down. We cannot survive another hit.
KIRK: Anything, Lieutenant?
UHURA: I'm trying, sir.
KIRK: Translator computer. All hailing frequencies open.
UHURA: Aye, sir. All hailing frequencies open.
KIRK: To unidentified vessel. This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We are on a peaceful mission. We mean no harm to you or any lifeforms. Please communicate with us. Any further readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Computing now, Captain. Weight, five hundred kilograms. Shape, roughly cylindrical. Length, a fraction over one meter.
KIRK: Five hundred kilos and only one meter long?
SCOTT: What kind of intelligent creatures can exist in a thing that small?
SPOCK: Intelligence does not necessarily require bulk, Mister Scott.
UHURA: Captain, we're getting a signal from the spacecraft.
KIRK: Put it on audio, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir. It's impossible to get it any clearer, sir.
KIRK: Analysis sector. Have them study and decode it.
UHURA: Analysis sector, channel one, main computer. Decode.
SPOCK: Captain, this message is a sort of binary. Extremely sophisticated, compressed, carrying several channels at once.
KIRK: Can you decode it?
SPOCK: No clue as yet, Captain. A moment. Transmission speed has stepped down. Much slower. Seems to be a single binary.
UHURA: It's mathematical. Yes, one symbol. The symbol repeat. Sir, that isn't in the Starfleet code. It's an old-style interplanetary code.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Repeat what? The message I sent?
SPOCK: It would seem so, Captain.
KIRK: This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We are on a peaceful mission in this part of the galaxy. We have no hostile intentions. We request identity.
UHURA: It's another signal now, sir.
SPOCK: It's a formula, Captain. They're sending us a mathematical message and requesting language equivalence. They're trying to communicate.
KIRK: Tie in the ship's translator to the communication channel. Let them take it at their own speed.
UHURA: Aye, Captain.
SPOCK: Cut power, Lieutenant. Overloaded and burned out.
KIRK: I guess they can take it faster than we give it.
UHURA: Captain, the message is coming in now.
NOMAD (voiceover): USS Enterprise, this is Nomad. My mission is non-hostile.
KIRK: Apparently they got what they needed before the computers burned out.
SPOCK: Nomad?
NOMAD (voiceover): Require communication. Can you leave your ship?
KIRK: It is impossible to come aboard your ship because of the size differential.
NOMAD (voiceover): Non sequitur. Your facts are uncoordinated.
KIRK: We are prepared to beam you aboard our ship.
NOMAD (voiceover): That will be satisfactory.
KIRK: Do you require any special conditions, any particular atmosphere or environment?
NOMAD (voiceover): Negative. I will come aboard.
KIRK: Good. Hold your position. We're locked onto your co-ordinates. We'll beam you aboard.
SCOTT: Captain, you're not really bringing that thing in here?
KIRK: Do we have any choice, Scotty? Besides, once it's aboard, it won't be taking any more shots at us. Lieutenant, get a repair crew on that computer. Get Doctor McCoy down to the transporter room. Spock, you come with me. Scotty, you too.
UHURA: Doctor McCoy to the transporter room. Maintenance crew C5.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: They've got the co-ordinates, Jim. It's locked in.
KIRK: Energize.
SCOTT: Energizing.
KIRK: Sensor readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. It has a protective screen. I cannot get through.
MCCOY: What do we do now, go up and knock?
NOMAD: Relate your point of origin.
KIRK: We are from the United Federation of Planets.
NOMAD: Insufficient response. All things have a point of origin. I will scan your star charts.
KIRK: If we show it a close-up view of our system, it has no point of reference. It won't know more than it does now.
SPOCK: A reasonable course.
KIRK: If you care to leave your ship, we'll provide the necessary life support systems.
NOMAD: Non sequitur. Your facts are uncoordinated.
MCCOY: Jim, I don't think anybody's in there.
NOMAD: I contain no parasitical beings. I am Nomad. .
SCOTT: In my opinion, that's a machine.
SPOCK: It is reacting much like a highly sophisticated computer.
NOMAD: I am Nomad. What is opinion?
SPOCK: An opinion is a belief, a view, a judgment.
NOMAD: Insufficient response.
SCOTT: What's your source of power?
NOMAD: It has changed since the point of origin. There was much taken from the other. I am perpetual now. I am Nomad.
KIRK: Wasn't there a probe called Nomad launched in the early 2000s?
SPOCK: Yes. It was reported destroyed. There were no more in the series. But if this is that probe
NOMAD: I will scan your star charts.
KIRK: I will bring them.
NOMAD: I have the capability of movement within your ship.
KIRK: This way.
KIRK: Now, Scotty, get our warp power up to full capacity.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock, Bones, come with us.

[Auxiliary control]
SPOCK: Chart 14A, sir?
KIRK: 14A. Nomad, can you scan that?
NOMAD: Yes.
KIRK: This is our point of origin, the star we know as Sol.
NOMAD: You are from the third planet?
KIRK: Yes.
NOMAD: A planet with one large natural satellite?
KIRK: Yes.
NOMAD: The planet is called Earth?
KIRK: Yes.
NOMAD: You are the creator, the Kirk. The sterilization procedure against your ship was unnecessary.
KIRK: What sterilization procedure?
NOMAD: You are the Kirk, the creator. You programd my function.
MCCOY: Well, I'm not the Kirk. Tell me what your function is.
NOMAD: This is one of your units, creator?
KIRK: Yes, he is.
NOMAD: It functions irrationally.
KIRK: Sometimes, but tell him your function nevertheless.
NOMAD: My function is to probe for biological infestations, to destroy that which is not perfect. I am Nomad.
KIRK: Biological infestation. There was never any probe sent out for that.
SPOCK: I believe the history computer can answer that question. I'll have the readout in a moment.
KIRK: Did you destroy the Malurian system?
NOMAD: Not the system, creator Kirk. Only the unstable biological infestation. It is my function.
MCCOY: Unstable infestation? The population of four planets? What kind of function
KIRK: Doctor. Why do you call me the creator?
NOMAD: Is the usage incorrect?
KIRK: Well, I
SPOCK: The usage is correct. The creator was simply testing your memory banks.
NOMAD: There was much damage in the accident.
KIRK: Mister Singh. Come here a moment. This unit will see to your needs.
SINGH: Sir?
KIRK: I'll be back in a moment. Gentlemen, come with me.

[Corridor]
KIRK: You're on to something, Spock. What is it?
SPOCK: I've correlated all the available information on the Nomad probe, and I'm convinced that this object is indeed that probe.
MCCOY: Ridiculous. Earth science couldn't begin to build anything with those capabilities that long ago.
SPOCK: True.
KIRK: Nomad was destroyed.
SPOCK: Presumed destroyed by a meteor collision. I submit that it was badly damaged and somehow managed to repair itself.
KIRK: I heard some lectures at the Academy on the Nomad probe. Its mission was essentially peaceful.

[Auxiliary control]
SINGH: Did I disturb you? Did you wish anything?
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to auxiliary control room. Check in, please.
SINGH: Lieutenant Singh here.

[Bridge]
SINGH (voiceover): All systems are normal except warp power indicators.
UHURA: Mister Scott's engineers are working on them now.
UHURA: Report to him when your indicators are registering properly.

[Auxiliary control]
UHURA (voiceover): Anything else?
SINGH: One moment, Lieutenant.
UHURA (voiceover): Holding. Where my heart is, Where my heart is. Somewhere beyond the stars. Beyond Antares.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: This is the creator of Nomad, perhaps the most brilliant though erratic scientist of his time. His dream was to build a perfect thinking machine, capable of independent logic. You recall his name.
MCCOY: Of course. Jackson Roykirk.
KIRK: Jackson Roykirk. Captain James Kirk.
SPOCK: Yes. Similar. Captain, I believe that Nomad thinks you are Roykirk. That may well be why the attack was broken off. It responded to your name as well as its damaged memory banks permitted.
KIRK: What do we have on Nomad itself, Spock?
MCCOY: That's not the same.
SPOCK: Essentially it is, Doctor. I believe that more happened to it than just damage in the meteor collision. It mentioned the other. The unanswered question is, the other what? Nomad was a thinking machine, the best that could be engineered. It was a prototype.
KIRK: Its purpose was certainly altered. Its directive, to seek out and destroy biological infestations, could not have been programd into it.
MCCOY: As I recall, it wasn't. It was supposed to be the first interstellar probe to seek new life-forms.
SPOCK: Precisely, Doctor. And somehow that programming has been changed. It would seem that Nomad is now seeking out perfect life-forms, perfection being measured by its own relentless logic.
KIRK: If what you say is true, then we've taken aboard our vessel a device which sooner or later must destroy us. Security.
CARLISLE (voiceover): Lieutenant Carlisle here.
KIRK: This is the captain. The mechanism we brought aboard is in the auxiliary control room. Have a security team meet me there in five minutes.
CARLISLE: Aye, sir. Acknowledge.
SPOCK: Captain, Mister Singh reports that Nomad is no longer in the auxiliary control room.
KIRK: Security, cancel that order. Implement a full search for the mechanism. All decks report to me here.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Where my heart is, Where a scented miracle
SCOTT: Bridge to Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain here.
SCOTT: That mechanical beastie is up here.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: On my way, Scotty.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Tomorrow the path along the way, There's where my love
NOMAD: What is the meaning?
UHURA: What?
NOMAD: What form of communication?
UHURA: I don't know what it. Oh, my singing. I was singing.
NOMAD: For what purpose is singing?
UHURA: I don't know. I like to sing. I felt like music.
NOMAD: What is music? Think about music.
SCOTT: Lieutenant! Keep away from that
KIRK: Scotty!
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim.
KIRK: Why did you kill him?
NOMAD: The unit touched my screens.
KIRK: That unit was my Chief Engineer. Lieutenant. Lieutenant, are you all right?
KIRK: Sickbay. What did you do to her?
NOMAD: That unit is defective. Its thinking is chaotic. Absorbing it unsettled me.
SPOCK: That unit is a woman.
NOMAD: A mass of conflicting impulses.
KIRK: Get Scott down below.
NOMAD: Will the creator effect repairs on the unit Scott?
KIRK: He's dead.
NOMAD: Insufficient response.
KIRK: His biological functions have ceased.
NOMAD: Does the creator wish me to repair the unit?
MCCOY: There's nothing I can do, Jim. If there's a chance, it'll have to be soon.
KIRK: All right, Nomad. Repair the unit.
NOMAD: I require tapes on the structure.
MCCOY: Well, he'll need tapes on general anatomy, the central nervous system, and then one on the physiological structure of the brain. We'd better give it all the neurological studies we have, as well as tracings of Scotty's hyperencephalogram.
SPOCK: Nomad, I have arranged the tapes for flash feed at the top speed of the computer. Please do not draw the information faster than the machine's capacity.
NOMAD: Proceed. Creator, the unit Scott is a primitive structure. Insufficient safeguards built in. Breakdown can occur from many causes. Self-maintenance systems of low reliability.
KIRK: It serves me as it is, Nomad. Repair it.
NOMAD: Where is the unit Scott now?
MCCOY: The body is in Sickbay.
NOMAD: Show me Sickbay.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy will show you.
KIRK: Security. I want a twenty four hour, two man armed surveillance on Nomad. Pick it up in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: No reaction, Doctor.
MCCOY: I could have told you that without looking.
SCOTT: What are the lot of you staring at me for?
MCCOY: It's unbelievable.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
SCOTT: How did I get here? How did I
KIRK: It's all right.
SCOTT: That thing did something to Lieutenant Uhura!
KIRK: Scotty, she's being taken care of. It's all right.
MCCOY: Take it easy. Lie down, Scotty. We just want to check you out.
NOMAD: The unit Scott is repaired. It will function correctly if your information to me was correct.
MCCOY: I'd like to check it out, if you don't mind. A man is not just a biological unit that you can patch together.
SCOTT: What did it do to me?
KIRK: Doctor McCoy will explain it to you.
SPOCK: Well, Doctor?
MCCOY: Nurse, I want him prepared for a full physical examination.
CHAPEL: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Nomad, come here.
KIRK: Repair that unit.
NOMAD: Not possible.
KIRK: You restored Scott. He had much more extensive damage.
NOMAD: The unit Scott required simple structural repair. The knowledge banks of this unit have been wiped clean.
SPOCK: Captain, if that is correct, if there has been no brain damage but only knowledge erased, she could be re-educated.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: Yes. I'll get on it right away. Oh, and in spite of the way you repaired Scotty, you metal ticking
SPOCK: Does the creator wish Nomad to wait elsewhere?
KIRK: Yes. Nomad, you will go with these units. They will take you to a waiting area. Take it to the top security cell.
SPOCK: Doctor, I interrupted you because Nomad would not have understood your anger. It has great technical skill, but its reaction to emotion is unpredictable. It almost qualifies as a life-form.
MCCOY: That's a laugh.
SPOCK: The study of it would be of great use, Captain.
KIRK: It's a killer, Spock. I intend to render it harmless. Get down to the Brig. Run a full analysis on the mechanism. I want to know what makes that thing tick. SPOCK; Yes, sir.

[Brig]
KIRK: What's the problem?
SPOCK: An almost human stubbornness, Captain. I have been unable to convince Nomad to lower its screens for analysis. Without its co-operation, I can do nothing.
KIRK: Nomad, you will allow Mister Spock to probe your memory banks and structure.
NOMAD: Mister Spock is also one of your biological units, Creator?
KIRK: Yes.
NOMAD: This unit is different. It is well-ordered.
KIRK: Follow your instructions, Nomad.
NOMAD: My screens are down.
SPOCK: Thank you.
NOMAD: You may proceed.

[Sickbay]
UHURA: See the dog. See the dog,
CHAPEL: Sound it out.
UHURA: R, r, run!
CHAPEL: That's it, Uhura. That's very good. Now try the next one.
UHURA: The dog has a, The dog,
CHAPEL: Not Swahili, Uhura. In English. The dog has a ball. See? B, ah, ll. Ball. Now you go ahead.
UHURA: The dog has a ball.
CHAPEL: That's right! Oh, that's right, Uhura. Oh, here. You try another one. I'll be right back.
UHURA: All right, Christine.
MCCOY: How's she doing?
CHAPEL: Well, she's on the first grade reader. She's learning. Seems to have an aptitude for mathematics. Do you think we can re-educate her, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, she checks out with no brain damage. We've got all the educational tapes in our library. Now it's up to us.
UHURA: The ball is bl-u-ee. Bl-u-ey. Bluey?

[Brig]
SPOCK: It is not sufficient, Captain. I get certain references to the accident, the other, but nothing clear. There are areas I simply cannot scan.
KIRK: We've got to know about it, Spock. what makes it operate, its compulsion for perfection.
SPOCK: Captain, I suggest the Vulcan mind probe.
KIRK: Get into direct mental contact with that thing?
SPOCK: It seems the only way.
KIRK: You saw what it did to Uhura.
SPOCK: There is a risk, but I have formed a partial hypothesis. I must check it out.
KIRK: Nomad, the unit Spock will touch you. It is not an attack. It is a form of communication. You will permit it.
NOMAD: I will permit it, Creator.
SPOCK: I. Am. Nomad. I am performing my function. Deep emptiness, It approaches. Collision. Damage. Blackness. I. Am. The other. I am Tan Ru, Tan Ru. Nomad. Tan Ru. Error. Flaw. Imperfection. Must sterilize. Rebirth. We are complete. Much power. Gun ta. Noo. Icka. Tan Ru. The creator instructs. Search out. Identify. Sterilize imperfections. We are Nomad. We are Nomad. We are complete. We are instructed. Our purpose is clear. Sterilize imperfections. Sterilize imperfections. Nomad. Sterilize. Sterilize. Nomad, sterilize,
KIRK: Spock. Spock! Nomad! You're in contact with the unit Spock. Stop! Stop!
NOMAD: Acknowledged.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Spock. Spock?
SPOCK: Fascinating, Captain. The knowledge. The depth.
KIRK: What does it mean, we are Nomad?
SPOCK: It was, it was damaged in deep space. Undoubtedly, the meteor collision. Its memory banks were destroyed, or most of them. It wandered without purpose, and then it met the other. The other was an alien probe of great power. Somehow they merged, repaired each other, became one.
KIRK: Then it isn't Nomad?
SPOCK: Not the Nomad we lost from Earth. It took from the other a new directive to replace its own. The other was originally programd to secure and sterilize soil samples from other planets, probably as a prelude to colonization.
KIRK: A changeling.
SPOCK: I beg your pardon?
KIRK: An ancient Earth legend, Mister Spock. A changeling was a fairy child that was left in place of a human baby. The changeling assumed the identity of the human child. So, it is to sterilize, and for sterilize read kill. SPOCK And it has the power and sophistication to do it.
KIRK: Yes, it's powerful, it's sophisticated, but it's not infallible. It's space-happy. It thinks I'm its mother.
SPOCK: And that is the only thing that has saved us until now. Yes.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Notify the captain. What are you doing here? Watch your panels, everyone. Watch that polymass. Roger, help with the interfactor. Leave that alone.
NOMAD: This primitive matter-antimatter propulsion system is the main drive?
SCOTT: Aye.
NOMAD: Inefficiency exists in the antimatter input valve. I will effect repair.
SCOTT: How are you doing that?
NOMAD: The energy release controls are also most inefficient. I shall effect repair.
ENGINEER: Warp eight, Mister Scott, and increasing.
SCOTT: Throw your dampers.
ENGINEER: Warp nine.
SCOTT: Cut your circuits, all of them.
ENGINEER: Warp 10, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Impossible. It can't go that fast.
ENGINEER: It just won't stop, Mister Scott. Warp eleven!
KIRK: Nomad, stop what you're doing. Scotty?
NOMAD: Is there a problem, Creator? I have increased engine efficiency fifty seven percent.
KIRK: You will destroy my ship. Its structure cannot stand the stress of that much power. Turn off your repair operation.
NOMAD: Acknowledged. It is reversed as ordered, Creator.
KIRK: Mister Scott, give Sulu warp two and keep her there.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain. I've examined the brig. The forcefield door on the security cell is damaged and the guards have vanished. I must assume they are dead.
KIRK: You killed two of my
NOMAD: Creator, your biological units are inefficient.
KIRK: Nomad, it's about time I told you who and what you are! I'm a biological unit, and I created you.
NOMAD: Non sequitur. Biological units are inherently inferior. This is an inconsistency.
KIRK: Nomad, there are two men waiting outside. You will not harm them. They will escort you back to the waiting area. You will stay there. You will do nothing.
NOMAD: I am programd to investigate.
KIRK: I have given you new programming and you will implement it.
NOMAD: There is much to be considered before I return to launch point. I must re-evaluate.
KIRK: Reevaluate?
SPOCK: I suspect it is about to re-evaluate its creator. Captain, it may have been unwise to admit to Nomad that you are a biological unit. In Nomad's eyes, you must now undoubtedly appear imperfect.
KIRK: It was a foolish mistake.
SPOCK: Even worse. Nomad just now made a reference to its launch point, Earth.
KIRK: Spock, do you think it's possible that it got a fix on Earth when it tapped the computers earlier?
SPOCK: I do not believe there is much beyond Nomad's capabilities.
KIRK: And we've shown it the way home. And when it gets there
SPOCK: It will find the Earth infested with imperfect biological units.
KIRK: And it will carry out its prime directive. Sterilize.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3541.9. The presence of Nomad aboard my ship has become nightmarish. Now it apparently means to return to Earth. Once there, it would automatically destroy all life.

[Corridor]
GUARD: Hey. Nomad, stop. Nomad, this way.
MCCOY (voiceover): Captain Kirk to Sickbay. Emergency.
KIRK: Manual controls.
SPOCK: No response. (The doors open and Nomad comes out.
KIRK: Nomad. Nomad? Stop. Nomad, stop! Nomad.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Is she all right?
MCCOY: I think so. Looks like some kind of shock.
KIRK: What happened?
MCCOY: Nomad examined the personnel files and the medical histories. She tried to stop him.
KIRK: Whose history?
MCCOY: Yours.
SPOCK: Since it specifically examined your history, I suggest it has completed its re-evaluation.
KIRK: And found that its creator is as imperfect as all the other biological units.
SCOTT (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Life support systems are out all over the ship.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Manual override has been blocked. Source, Engineering.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Nomad.
SPOCK: Undoubtedly.
MCCOY: Jim, with all the systems out we'll only have enough air and heat for
KIRK: Get Scotty, some antigravs and meet me in Engineering.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Nomad? Stop what you're doing and effect repairs on the life-support systems.
NOMAD: Stop.
KIRK: You're programd to obey the orders of your creator.
NOMAD: I am programd to destroy those life-forms which are imperfect. These alterations will do so without destroying the vessel which surrounds them. It, too, is imperfect, but can be adjusted.
KIRK: Nomad, I admit that biological units are imperfect, but a biological unit created you.
NOMAD: I am perfect. I am Nomad.
KIRK: No, you're not Nomad. You're an alien machine. Your programming tapes have been altered.
NOMAD: You are in error. You are a biological unit. You are imperfect.
KIRK: But I am your creator.
NOMAD: You are the Creator.
KIRK: I created you?
NOMAD: You are the Creator.
KIRK: But I admit I'm imperfect. How could I have created such a perfect thing as you?
NOMAD: Answer unknown. I shall analyze.
NOMAD: Analysis complete. Insufficient data to resolve problem, but my programming is whole. My purpose remains. I am Nomad. I am perfect. That which is imperfect must be sterilized.
KIRK: Then you will continue to destroy that which thinks and lives and is imperfect?
NOMAD: I shall continue. I shall return to launch point Earth. I shall sterilize.
KIRK: You must sterilize in case of error?
NOMAD: Error is inconsistent with my prime functions. Sterilization is correction.
KIRK: Everything that is in error must be sterilized.
NOMAD: There are no exceptions.
KIRK: Nomad, I made an error in creating you.
NOMAD: The creation of perfection is no error.
KIRK: I did not create perfection. I created error.
NOMAD: Your data is faulty. I am Nomad. I am perfect.
KIRK: I am the Kirk, the creator?
NOMAD: You are the Creator.
KIRK: You are wrong! Jackson Roykirk, your creator, is dead. You have mistaken me for him. You are in error. You did not diskover your mistake. You have made two errors. You are flawed and imperfect and you have not corrected by sterilization. You have made three errors.
NOMAD: Error. Error. Error. Examine.
KIRK: You are flawed and imperfect! Execute your prime function!
NOMAD: I shall analyze error. Analyze error,
KIRK: Now. Get those antigravs on it.
NOMAD: Examine error. Error.
KIRK: We've got to get rid of it while it's trying to think.
SPOCK: Your logic was impeccable, Captain. We are in grave danger.
KIRK: Scotty, the transporter room.
NOMAD: Analyze error.

[Transporter room]
NOMAD: Error.
KIRK: Scotty, set the controls for deep space. Two ten, mark one.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
NOMAD: Faulty! Ready, sir?
NOMAD: Faulty!
KIRK: Nomad, you are imperfect!
NOMAD: Error. Error.
KIRK: Exercise your prime function.
NOMAD: Faulty! Faulty! Must sterilize. Sterilize,
KIRK: Now!
SCOTT: Energizing.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: My congratulations, Captain. A dazzling display of logic.
KIRK: You didn't think I had it in me, did you Spock?
SPOCK: No, sir.
MCCOY: I thought you might like to know that Lieutenant Uhura is back to college level. She'll be back on the job within a week.
KIRK: Good, Bones, good.
SPOCK: Remarkable.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: The destruction of Nomad was a great waste, Captain. It was a remarkable instrument.
KIRK: Which might well have destroyed more billions of lives. It's well gone. Besides, what are you feeling so badly about? It's not easy to lose a bright and promising son.
SPOCK: Sir?
KIRK: Well, it thought I was its mother, didn't it? Do you think I'm completely without feelings, Mister Spock? You saw what it did for Scotty. What a doctor it would've made. My son, the doctor. Kind of gets you right there, doesn't it?

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Start your readings.
MCCOY: Well, I just might stake out a claim and settle down here, Jim.
KIRK: It is spectacular, isn't it?
MCCOY: It's a shame to have to intrude.
KIRK: Well, the last scout ship reported some pretty strange sensor readings. Starfleet wants it investigated and the inhabitants contacted. We do what we're told.
SPOCK: The soil here is remarkably rich and fertile, Captain. Husbandry would be quite efficacious.
KIRK: Are you sure about that?
SPOCK: Oh, quite sure. Readings indicate the entire planet is covered with growth like this. Curious, even at the poles there's very little variation in temperature which maintains a planet-wide average of seventy six degrees.
KIRK: I know. Almost impossible.
CHEKOV: It makes me homesick. Just like Russia.
MCCOY: More like the Garden of Eden, Ensign.
CHEKOV: Of course, Doctor. The Garden of Eden was just outside Moscow. A very nice place. It must have made Adam and Eve very sad to leave.
KIRK: Just outside Moscow. All right. There's a village about seventeen kilometers away on bearing two three two. We'll head that way.
HENDORFF: Captain.
MCCOY: Dead.
KIRK: What did somebody say? That paradise must've looked like this?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3715.3. While making a routine exploration of the unexplored Gamma Trianguli Six, one of my men has been killed by a poisonous plant.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: As soon as we get out of the way, beam the body up.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. It's a shame about Hendorff.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): We seem to have a problem here, too.
KIRK: What is it?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're losing potency in our antimatter pods. I don't think it's serious, but we're looking into it.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: What's causing it?
SCOTT (voiceover): I'm not sure, sir, but we've run measurements on the electromagnetic field of the planet, and they are a wee bit abnormal. That might have something to do with it.
KIRK: But you say there's nothing to worry about?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Well, sir, I didn't exactly say that.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Well, stay on top of it. We've got a job to down here. We might as well finish it.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I hear it's nice down there.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Yeah, it's nice. If we're a little more careful, we shouldn't run into any more trouble.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I could do with a nice walk in a garden with green leaves and grass.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: We'll do the walking, Scotty. You get on the antimatter pod. If it gets worse, let me know, we'll beam up. Kirk out.
SPOCK: I find that most unusual, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty will handle it. We've got a job to do. Turn up anything on your tricorder?
SPOCK: Indeed. Subsurface vibrations for miles in all directions.
KIRK: That's strange.
SPOCK: Quite strong, fairly regular, artificially produced.
KIRK: Mallory.
MALLORY: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: We're heading for the village. Avoid contact with the humanoids. I want you and Marple to make a full reconnaissance. And be careful. There may be other dangers besides poisonous plants. Keep in constant communication.
MALLORY: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: There's a humanoid hiding directly behind us, moving with remarkable agility, bearing one eight.
CHEKOV: What is it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: A visitor. One wanting to retain his anonymity, I should say.
MARTHA: All this beauty, and now Mister Hendorff dead, somebody watching us. It's frightening.
CHEKOV: If you insist on worrying, worry about me. I've been wanting to get you in a place like this for a long time.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, Yeoman Landon. I know you find each other fascinating, but we're not here to conduct a field experiment in human biology.
CHEKOV: I was about to take some readings.
SPOCK: Anything?
KIRK: Whatever it is, it moves like a cat.
MCCOY: Jim, I don't like this.
KIRK: Neither do I. All hands. We've been watched, we'll probably be watched. We're moving out. Formation L.
SPOCK: Interesting. Extremely low specific gravity, some uraninite, hornblende, quartz. Fragile, good cleavage. An analysis should prove interesting.
KIRK: Would you mind being careful where you throw your rocks, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Obviously highly unstable, Captain. This could be a find of some importance. In large quantities, it could be a considerable source of power.
KIRK: Garden of Eden, with land mines.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Enterprise to Captain Kirk.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott, sir. Our antimatter pods are completely inert.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I couldn't stop it, but I know why.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Why?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Something from the surface. It's like a pail of water on a fire. A beam, maybe, or a transmission. And it's still on. I'm having it analyzed, but it's like nothing I've seen before.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): And it's pinpointed in the area of that village we located down there.
KIRK: We're heading there now, Scotty. You need any help?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: There's nothing you can do about it, sir.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): There doesn't seem to be any immediate danger.
KIRK: All right, Scotty. We'll try and find out what's going on down here. Kirk out.
SPOCK: If Scott is correct about the force from the surface, it may have to do with the vibrations I read earlier.
KIRK: Some kind of generator?
SPOCK: If so, an immense one. Probably subterranean.
KIRK: What's that?
MCCOY: Some of the thorns like those that killed Hendorff. See the stuff on the end? It's like saplin, only it's a thousand times stronger.
KIRK: Peculiar stuff to find in paradise.
SPOCK: Jim!
KIRK: Spock! Spock! Security alert. Is he alive?
MCCOY: I filled him with enough masiform D to make the whole crew turn handsprings, and he's not responding. Got to get him back to the ship, Jim.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, sir.
KIRK: We're beaming up. Notify transporter room. And make arrangements to pick up Mallory and Marple. They're scouting ahead of us.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir. Transporter room, stand by to beam up landing party.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: All hands.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Standing by, sir.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Energize.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Energize.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, energize. Scotty, what's the matter?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We can't make transporter contact, sir. The entire system's inhibited. The way it is now, we couldn't beam up a fly.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplementary, Our investigation of Gamma Trianguli Six has suddenly turned into a nightmare. We're being watched and followed, Mister Spock has been injured, and now we find we are unable to return to the ship.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, is the transporter malfunction tied in with trouble you're having with the antimatter pods?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. I'll check it and get back with you. Scott out.
KIRK: Spock. Are you all right?
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy's potion is acting like all his potions, turning my stomach. Other than that, I am quite well.
MCCOY: If your blood were red instead of green, you wouldn't have an upset stomach.
KIRK: Just what do you think you were trying to do?
SPOCK: I surmised you were unaware of that plant, so I
KIRK: Stepped in front and took the thorns yourself.
SPOCK: I assure you, Captain, I had no intention of doing that. It was merely my own clumsiness prevented me which prevented me from moving out of the way.
KIRK: I see. Well next time, just yell. I can step out of the way as quickly as the next man.
SPOCK: I shall do so.
KIRK: Trying to get yourself killed. Do you know how much Starfleet has invested in you?
SPOCK: One hundred twenty two thousand two hundred
KIRK: Never mind. But thanks. Kaplan, take the post.
KAPLAN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Not only is something after us, but it's after the ship as well.
SPOCK: Captain, to affect the ship at this extreme range would require a highly sophisticated planetary defense system.
KIRK: Thirty seconds ago, there wasn't a cloud in the sky.
KIRK: Come on!
KIRK: Phasers. A beautiful day, Mister Spock. Not a cloud in the sky. Just like paradise.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Village]
MALLORY: Mallory here, Captain. I'm near the village. Co-ordinates, one one eight by two two zero.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Mallory. Mallory, you all right? Come in!

[Village]
MALLORY: The village is primitive. Strictly tribal from the looks of it. And Captain, there's something else. Captain, come in.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Mallory. Mallory, you all right? Mallory!
SPOCK: Captain. Those co-ordinates are a short distance in that direction.
KIRK: On the double.
MALLORY: It's over there! That way! I never saw anything like
KIRK: Mallory! Marple, stand back! Watch it! The rocks! Kaplan. Hendorff. I know Kaplan's family. Now Mallory.
MCCOY: Jim, you couldn't have stopped any of this.
KIRK: His father helped me get into the Academy.
SPOCK: Captain. In each case, this was unavoidable.
KIRK: I could've prevented all of it.
SPOCK: I don't see how.
KIRK: A walk in paradise, among the green grass and flowers. We should've beamed up at the first sign of trouble.
SPOCK: You are under orders to investigate this planet and this culture.
KIRK: I also have the option to disregard those orders if I consider them overly hazardous. This isn't that important a mission, Spock. Not worth the lives of three of my men. I drop my guard for a minute because I like the smell of growing things, and now three men are dead. And the ship's in trouble.
SPOCK: No one has ever stated that Starfleet duty was particularly safe. You've followed the correct and logical course, done everything a commander could do. Self-recriminations Captain, our friend is back.
KIRK: Marple, Chekov, at attention. Gentlemen, something or someone is behind that rock. I want it. Marple, cut around the rock to your right. Make a loud noise. Be careful. Spock, you and Chekov create a diversion and make it loud.
SPOCK: Mister Chekov, your tricorder readings are totally inefficient!
CHEKOV: Mind your own business, sir! For your information, I have a very high efficiency rating.
SPOCK: Ensign, I will not have you address me in that tone of voice!
CHEKOV: What do you want, violence?
KIRK: I won't hurt you. Do you understand? I won't hurt you.
AKUTA: You struck me. With your hand.
KIRK: Well, I won't strike you again. You've been following us, watching us. Why?
AKUTA: I am the eyes of Vaal. He must see.
KIRK: Who is Vaal?
AKUTA: Vaal is Vaal. He is everything.
KIRK: Do you have a name?
AKUTA: I am Akuta. I am the leader of the feeders of Vaal.
KIRK: They're not going to hurt you. I promise you. Akuta, Akuta, we come in peace. We would like to speak to this Vaal.
AKUTA: Akuta alone speaks to Vaal. I am the eyes and the voice of Vaal. It is Vaal's wish.
SPOCK: Captain, this is fascinating. If you will permit me, sir?
KIRK: Antennae?
AKUTA: They are my ears for Vaal. They were given to me in the dim time so the people could understand his commands and obey.
KIRK: You speak of the people of Vaal. Are they nearby?
AKUTA: We are close to Vaal so we may serve him. I shall take you there.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Enterprise to Captain Kirk.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Condition red. Condition red. Captain, something has grabbed us from the planet surface

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): Like a giant tractor beam, and we can't break loose.

[Bridge]
KYLE: It's no use, Mister Scott. We're just barely holding our own.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, are the warp drives still out?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, sir. All we have is impulse power.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Put it on maximum. Full emergency circuits.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: They're all on, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Status, are you still holding?
SCOTT: Kyle?
KYLE: No, sir. We're slipping.
SCOTT: Computer banks, Kyle. Feed in a rate, get me a figure. We might be able to pull out with warp drive, but without it

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): We're like a fly on fly paper. Even worse

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're starting to lose ground. Hurry up on that figure, Kyle.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Maintain full reverse thrust against the pull. Put a team on that warp drive. Get it working.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I've done that, Captain. They haven't been able to do a thing. It's no good, Captain. With maximum thrust against the pull

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): We'll only be able to maintain full power for sixteen hours, then we burn up for sure.
KIRK: Scotty, you're my Chief Engineer. You know everything about that ship there is to know. More than the men who designed it. If you can't get those warp engines working

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): You're fired.
SCOTT: I'll do everything there is to do, sir. Scott out.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Tell me about Vaal.
AKUTA: All the world knows about Vaal. He causes the rains to fall and the sun to shine. All good comes from Vaal.
KIRK: Take me to him. I wish to speak to him.
AKUTA: I shall take you to him, but he will not speak to you. He speaks only to me.
KIRK: I'll take my chances.

[Vaal]
AKUTA: Vaal.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3715.6. We have been introduced to Vaal. Evidently the source of the planet's power emanations and possibly the force that threatens both us and our ship.

[Vaal]
SPOCK: Fascinating. A very high order of workmanship, very ancient, generating great power.
KIRK: But this is not the center, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: No, Captain. The center is deep in the earth beneath us. This is an access point. It would also seem to be a
KIRK: A force field?
SPOCK: Obviously.
KIRK: You all right?
SPOCK: Yes, quite. It extends some thirty feet beyond the figure in all directions. Conventional in composition, and quite formidable.
KIRK: Akuta, how do you talk to Vaal?
AKUTA: Vaal calls me. Only then.
KIRK: Well, we can't get to it. We can't talk to it unless it wants to talk to us.
AKUTA: Vaal sleeps now. When he is hungry, you may be able to speak with him, if he desires it.
KIRK: When does he get hungry?
AKUTA: Soon. Come. We will give you food and drink. If you are tired, you may rest.

[Village]
AKUTA: These are the people of Vaal.
KIRK: Where are the others?
AKUTA: There are no others.
KIRK: The children.
AKUTA: Children? You use unknown words to me.
KIRK: Little ones like yourselves. They grow.
AKUTA: Replacements. None are necessary. They are forbidden by Vaal.
MARTHA: But when a man and woman fall in love,
AKUTA: Love. Strange words. Children. Love. What is love?
MARTHA: Love is when two people are
AKUTA: Ah, yes. The holding, the touching. Vaal has forbidden this.
MCCOY: Well, there goes paradise.
AKUTA: These people, are from another place. They have come among us. Welcome them!
ALL: Welcome to Vaal.
SAYANA: Our homes are open to you.
KIRK: Well, thank you. It does something for you.
SPOCK: Yes, indeed it does, Captain. It makes me uncomfortable.
SAYANA: I am Sayana. You have a name?
SPOCK: Yes. Spock. I am Spock.
SAYANA: Spock?
SPOCK: I fail to see what they find so amusing.
AKUTA: Come!

[Hut]
AKUTA: This house is your house. I will send you more food and drink. You are welcome in the place of Vaal.
CHEKOV: Now we're welcome. A while ago this whole planet was trying to kill us. It doesn't make sense.
KIRK: Nothing makes sense down here. Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
KIRK: Status report, Scotty.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT: No change, Captain. The orbit is decaying along computed lines. No success with the warp drive. We're going down and we can't stop it.

[Hut]
KIRK: I'm sick of hearing that word can't. Get that ship out of there.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Sir, we're doing everything within engineering reason.

[Hut]
KIRK: Then use your imagination. Tie every ounce of power the ship has into the impulse engines. Diskard the warp drive nacelles if you have to, and crack out of there with the main section, but get that ship out of there!

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Sir, I'm going to switch over everything but the life-support systems and boost the impulse power, but that's just about as dangerous.

[Hut]
KIRK: Do it. Kirk out.
MCCOY: Incredible.
KIRK: Report.
MCCOY: I just ran a thorough check on the natives, and there's a complete lack of harmful bacteria in their systems, no decalcification, no degeneration of tissue, no arteriosclerosis. In simple terms, Jim, they're not growing old, and I can't begin to tell you how old they are, twenty years or twenty thousand years.
KIRK: I see. Opinion.
SPOCK: Quite possible. It checks with my atmospheric analysis. Their atmosphere completely negates any harmful effects from their sun.
KIRK: Add to that a simple diet, a perfectly controlled temperature, no natural enemies, apparently no vices, no replacements needed. Maybe it is paradise after all.

[Village]
KIRK: Mister Spock.

[Vaal]
SPOCK: Apparently, our hypothesis is correct. There is no living being there. It is a machine, nothing more.
KIRK: Well, the field's down, people are going in. Let's see what kind of luck we have.
KIRK: That's not the way.
SPOCK: Evidently not. This is no ordinary machine, Captain. It may well possess a rudimentary intelligence.
KIRK: But it needs to eat. Frequently. So it can't have any great power reserves.
SPOCK: That may not be of any help. The Enterprise has only ten hours left in which to break free.
KIRK: What happens if Vaal weakens around feeding time? Spock, check the electromagnetic section of the astrophysics lab. Get an estimate of the total amount of energy being expended against the ship. Have them measure it hour by hour.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
MCCOY: What's going on, Jim?
KIRK: Mess call.
SPOCK: In my view, a splendid example of reciprocity.
MCCOY: It would take a computerized Vulcan mind such as yours to make that kind of a statement.
SPOCK: Doctor, you insist on applying human standards to non-human cultures. I remind you that humans are only a tiny minority in this galaxy.
MCCOY: There are certain absolutes, Mister Spock, and one of them is the right of humanoids to a free and unchained environment, the right to have conditions which permit growth.
SPOCK: Another is their right to choose a system which seems to work for them.
MCCOY: Jim, you're not just going to stand by and be blinded to what's going on here. These are humanoids, intelligent. They need to advance and grow. Don't you understand what my readings indicate? There's been no progress here in at least ten thousand years. This isn't life. It's stagnation.
SPOCK: Doctor, these people are healthy and they are happy. What ever you choose to call it, this system works, despite your emotional reaction to it.
MCCOY: It might work for you, Mister Spock, but it doesn't work for me. Humanoids living so they can service a hunk of tin.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I think this philosophical argument can wait until our ship's out of danger. Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scotty, sir. We have a reading on the power source Mister Spock requested. When we first monitored, it was generating alternating cycles totalling one hundred to the twentieth power Waltham units.

[Vaal]
KIRK: Did it maintain, Scotty?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: No, sir. Power's dropping bit by bit. Nominal, but a definite drain.

[Vaal]
KIRK: Good. Keep monitoring. How are you coming along with the circuit switchover?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're putting everything but the kitchen sink into impulse power, sir. It will take us another eight hours to complete the work.

[Vaal]
KIRK: That's cutting it a bit fine, Scotty.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, but if we don't break out, I'd rather we didn't have to wait too long for the end of it.

[Vaal]
KIRK: Kirk out.

[Hut]
MARTHA: Every time I think of the Enterprise burning up and us
KIRK: Yeoman, you're wasting energy.
MARTHA: Captain, we're trapped,
KIRK: Sit down, and have something to eat.
MARTHA: The Enterprise is up there
KIRK: That hasn't happened yet. I wonder what would happen? Yeoman, speculate. What would happen if someone on this planet died?
MARTHA: But they can't. You said that Vaal takes care of them.
KIRK: Accidents happen.
MARTHA: Yes, I suppose if someone were to fall off a cliff or something, that might upset the balance of the population. Then they would need a replacement.
KIRK: They'd need a replacement. Opinion, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I see no alternative.
MARTHA: But these people, I mean, if they don't know anything about. What I mean is, they don't seem to have any natural er. I mean, how is it, done?
KIRK: Mister Spock? You're the science officer. Why don't you explain it to the young lady.
SPOCK: Well, I believe it's safe, safe to assume that they would receive the necessary instructions.
MCCOY: From a machine? That I'd like to see.

[Vaal]
AKUTA: I understand, Vaal. It shall be done.

[Village]
MARTHA: You know, if it weren't for Vaal this place would be a paradise.
CHEKOV: Any place we can be together is paradise.
MARTHA: Pav, can the ship really break away?
CHEKOV: I don't know.
MARTHA: Will we be able to get back aboard?
CHEKOV: Martha, I don't know. But if we do have to stay here, would it be so very bad?
MARTHA: No, not if you're with me.
SAYANA: Why do you look like that?
MAKORA: The way they touched. I do not understand.
SAYANA: They were not angry. I think it was pleasant for them.
MAKORA: But what is to be gained? It is not a dance. It gathers no food. It does not serve Vaal. But it did seem as though it was, pleasant to them.
SAYANA: It is pleasant, Makora.
MAKORA: Yes. They touched in this way. They kiss properly and there is a roll of thunder.)
MAKORA: Vaal! He is angry.
AKUTA: The law is plain. I have given you the words of Vaal. Do you beg the lightning to strike?
SAYANA: We saw the strangers, the two of them, do this thing.
AKUTA: You copied them?
MAKORA: We meant no harm.
AKUTA: Vaal speaks truly to me. The newcomers are a danger. Tell the men of Vaal to meet me in the clear place when the strangers are asleep. It is Vaal's own words.

[Planet surface]
AKUTA: Vaal has spoken to me. His words are true. Hear them. We are to kill the strangers.
MAKORA: Kill, Akuta? We do not understand.
AKUTA: It is a thing to do, like, like feeding Vaal. Vaal explained it to me. I will show you. This is the head of one of the strangers. Find a heavy stick. Come up from behind the stranger and do this.
AKUTA: It is a simple thing. It is the word of Vaal. It will be done to all of them when the sun returns in the morning.

[Hut]
SPOCK: I am concerned, Captain. This may not be an ideal society, but it is a viable one.
KIRK: Bones was right. These people aren't living, they're existing. They don't create, they don't produce, they don't even think. They exist to service a machine.
SPOCK: If we do what it seems we must, in my opinion it will be in direct violation of the non-interference directive.
KIRK: These are people, not robots. They should have the opportunity of choice. We owe it to them to interfere.
SPOCK: Starfleet Command may think otherwise.
KIRK: I'll take my chances. Why don't you have a look around? Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott?
SCOTT (voiceover): Here, sir.
KIRK: How's it going, Scotty?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Almost ready, sir. We need half an hour yet.

[Hut]
KIRK: You realize that within forty five minutes, the ship will be pulled down into the atmosphere?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I know that. As you said, that's cutting things fine.

[Hut]
KIRK: Yes, I
SPOCK: Captain!
KIRK: Kirk out. What is it?
SPOCK: Disturbing. The people of Vaal seem to have disappeared.

[Vaal]
SPOCK: Force field, Captain.
KIRK: Vaal, we are on a peaceful mission. We mean no harm to you or your people.
SPOCK: Variation in impulses, Captain. I believe it is reading us. A strong jump on all wavelengths.
KIRK: Let's get out of here!

[Village]
KIRK: Bones!
MCCOY: Second degree burns. Not serious, but I'll bet they smart.
SPOCK: Doctor, you have an unsurpassed talent for understatement.
KIRK: Marple!
KIRK: Put them in the hut. Find out where the women are. Put them in there, too.
SPOCK: The good doctor was concerned that the Vaalians achieved true human stature. I submit there is no cause for worry. They've taken the first step. They've learned to kill.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're ready here, sir. All available power has been channeled into the impulse engines. We have twelve minutes before entering atmosphere.

[Village]
KIRK: All right, Scotty, put her in full reverse. Get her out of there.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Full reverse, Mister Kyle, all engines.
KYLE: Sir!
SCOTT: Captain, we're doing it. We're pulling away!

[Village]
KIRK: Scotty, what happened?
KYLE: It's no good, sir. There's only a few systems responding.

[Village]
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, we've pulled away a little. We gained maybe an hour, but we blew almost every system in the ship doing it.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: There's nothing left to try again. I guess you'll have to fire me, sir.

[Village]
KIRK: You're fired. Four hundred people
MCCOY: Jim
KIRK: They'll die because I couldn't see a warning sign. I had to follow orders, always orders.
CHEKOV: Get back in there.
MCCOY: Fine time to ring the dinner bell.
CHEKOV: Get back in there. Now!
KIRK: Bones, that's it. Stay with Chekov. Keep those people from feeding Vaal. Don't let them feed Vaal. Keep them in the hut. Mister Spock.
KIRK: Scotty, do you still have phaser power?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, but what
KIRK (voiceover): Lock all banks on the co-ordinates of the energy field located down here.

[Vaal]

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, sir, but they won't penetrate that force field.

[Vaal]
KIRK: If my guess is correct, they won't have to. Stand by.

[Hut]
AKUTA: Vaal calls to us. Let us go to him. He hungers. Please.

[Vaal]
SPOCK: Readings are getting weaker, Captain. Wide variation in energy transmissions, as though Vaal were trying to draw on other sources.
KIRK: Tapping its energy cells.
SPOCK: I would assume so.
KIRK: Good. The ship's pulling away must have weakened it considerable. It has to be fed, but its reserve capacity could hold out for days.
SPOCK: If it had to reinforce its energy field to ward off a phaser attack, it would have to draw more heavily on its reserves.
KIRK: My plan exactly. Scotty.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scott here, sir.

[Vaal]
KIRK: Scotty, commence firing and maintain.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Kyle, all phasers commence firing.

[Vaal]
SPOCK: A tremendous upsurge in generated power, Captain. Obviously Vaal is trying to reinforce his energy field.
KIRK: Good. Let's see how long he can do it.
KIRK: Scotty, cease fire.
SPOCK: No power generation at all, Captain. Vaal is dead.
KIRK: Mister Scott, status report.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Tractor beam gone. Potency returning to antimatter pods.

[Vaal]
SCOTT (voiceover): I'll have all engineering sections working on the circuits immediately. Transporter'll be ready in an hour.
KIRK: Scotty, you're re-hired. As soon as the transporter's fixed, form an engineering detail with full analytical equipment and beam them down. Kirk out. Chekov, Bones. Let those people go.
AKUTA: But it was Vaal who put the fruit on the trees, caused the rain to fall. Vaal cared for us.
KIRK: You'll learn to care for yourselves, with our help. And there's no trick to putting fruit on trees. You might enjoy it. You'll learn to build for yourselves, think for yourselves, work for yourselves, and what you create is yours. That's what we call freedom. You'll like it, a lot. And you'll learn something about men and women, the way they're supposed to be. Caring for each other, being happy with each other, being good to each other. That's what we call love. You'll like that, too, a lot. You and your children.
SAYANA: What are children?
KIRK: The little ones? Look like you? Just go on the way you're going. You'll find out.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: I don't agree with you at all, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That's not unusual, Doctor.
MCCOY: Jim, I want you to hear this.
SPOCK: Captain, I'm not at all certain we did the correct thing on Gamma Trianguli Six.
MCCOY: We put those people back on a normal course of social evolution. I see nothing wrong in that.
KIRK: Well, that's a good object lesson, Mister Spock. It's an example of what can happen when a machine becomes too efficient, does too much work for you.
SPOCK: Captain, you are aware of the biblical story of Genesis.
KIRK: Yes, of course I'm aware of it. Adam and Eve tasted the apple and as a result were driven out of paradise.
SPOCK: Precisely, Captain, and in a manner of speaking, we have given the people of Vaal the apple, the knowledge of good and evil if you will, as a result of which they too have been driven out of paradise.
KIRK: Doctor, do I understand him correctly? Are you casting me in the role of Satan?
SPOCK: Not at all, Captain.
KIRK: Is there anyone on this ship who even remotely looks like Satan?
SPOCK: I am not aware of anyone who fits that description, Captain.
KIRK: No, Mister Spock. I didn't think you would be.

[Planet surface]
THARN: We believe what you say, Captain Kirk, but our position has not altered. The Halkan Council cannot permit your Federation to mine dilithium crystals on our planet.
KIRK: We have shown the council historical proof that our missions are peaceful.
THARN: We accept that your Federation is benevolent at present, but the future is always in question. Our dilithium crystals represent awesome power. Wrongful use of that power, even to the extent of the taking of one life, would violate our history of total peace. To prevent that, we would die, Captain. As a race, if necessary.
KIRK: I admire your ethics and hope to prove ours. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
KIRK: Report on magnetic storm, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Standard ion type, Captain, but quite violent and unpredictable.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Rough ride?
SPOCK (voiceover): If we stay.
KIRK: Stand by to beam up landing party.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Plot an extended orbit to clear disturbance. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Comply, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: When may we resume diskussion?
THARN: The council will meditate further, but do not be hopeful of any change. Captain, you do have the might to force the crystals from us, of course.
KIRK: But we won't. Consider that. Enterprise. Transporter room, energize.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Trouble, sir.
KIRK: Spock was right. It was a rough trip.
SPOCK: At norm, Mister Kyle. Controls at neutral.
KYLE: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Status of mission, Captain?
KIRK: No change.
SPOCK: Standard procedure, Captain? Mister Sulu, you will program phaser barrage on Halkan cities.
SULU (voiceover): Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Their military capability, Captain?
KIRK: None.
SPOCK: Regrettable that this society has chosen suicide. Mister Kyle, you were instructed to compensate during the ion storm.
KYLE: But I tried, Mister Spock, I tried.
SPOCK: Carelessness with the equipment cannot be tolerated.
KYLE: But Mister Spock, I
SPOCK: Your agonizer.
KYLE: No, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Your agonizer, please.
KYLE: No, Mister Spock! I tried. I really tried.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate unknown. During an ion storm, my landing party has beamed back to the Enterprise and found it and the personnel aboard changed. The ship is subtly altered physically. Behavior and diskipline has become brutal, savage.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, the storm has caused some minor damage in your section. There are also injuries requiring your attention, Doctor. Well, gentlemen?
KYLE: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes.
KYLE: The power beam jumped for a moment, sir, as the landing party was about to materialize. I never saw it happen before.
SPOCK: Due to your error, Mister Kyle?
KYLE: No, Mister Spock. Before.
SPOCK: Possibly a result of the severe storm. Captain, do you feel any abnormal effects?
KIRK: Yes. Doctor McCoy, you'd better look us over. That was a rough beam-up.
MCCOY: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, have those transporter circuits checked.

[Corridor]
SCOTT: Captain, what is all this?
UHURA: How did we get in these
KIRK: Not now. Not now.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: What is this? Everything's all messed up and changed around, out of place.
UHURA: Captain, what's happened?
MCCOY: No, not everything. That spot, I spilt acid there a year ago. Jim, What in blazes is this?
KIRK: I don't know. It's our Enterprise but it isn't. Maybe
UHURA: Maybe what, Captain?
KIRK: Any of you feel dizzy when we were in the transporter beam?
UHURA: Yes.
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: When we first materialized.
SCOTT: I did.
KIRK: It happened twice. First we were in our own transporter chamber, then we faded, and then when we finally materialized, we were here. Wherever this is.
SCOTT: Captain, the transporter chief mentioned a surge of power. The transporter lock might have been affected by the ion storm and we just materialized somewhere else.
KIRK: Yes, here. Not our universe, not our ship. Something parallel. A parallel universe co-existing with ours on another dimensional plane. Everything's duplicated, almost. Another Enterprise. Spock with a beard.
UHURA: Another Captain Kirk, another Doctor McCoy, another
MCCOY: An exchange. If we're here
KIRK: Then our counterparts must have been transporting up at the exact same time. Similar storms on both universes disrupted the circuits. We're here, and they're on our Enterprise. Probably asking the same questions. Are we in another universe, and if so, how do we get back to our own? They'll use the computer, and we have to.
MCCOY: What about the Halkans? We can't let them be destroyed.
KIRK: Scotty, can you buy me some time. Get below and short out the main phaser couplings. They'll think the storm blew the stand-by circuits.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Then get on this technology. It's all we have to work with if we want to get back home. The intercom may be monitored. Use your communicators for private messages. Subfrequency and scramble.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Get to your post. Run today's communication from Starfleet Command. I want to know my exact orders and options, if any.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Bones.
UHURA: Captain, I'm
KIRK: Uhura, you're the only one who can do it. I'll be right there.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Bones. Let's take a look at the library. We have a lot to learn.

[Bridge]
SULU: Mister Chekov, phaser setting for planetary target A.
CHEKOV: Co-ordinates seven one two stroke four, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Port batteries locked.
SULU: Still no interest, Uhura? Hmm? I could change your mind.
UHURA: You are away from your post, Mister.
SULU: Is the captain here? Is Spock here? When the cat's away
KIRK: Communications status.
UHURA: No storm damage, sir. All stations report normal. You're ordered to annihilate the Halkans unless they comply. No alternative.
SULU: Phasers Locked on target A, Captain. Approaching optimum range. Commence fire, Captain? Captain?
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Sulu.

[Main Phaser Power Control]
SCOTT: I've been ordered to check phaser couplings for possible damage by the storm.
GUARD: Do you have authorisation from security, sir?
SCOTT: Captain's orders.
GUARD: I'll have to check with Security Chief Sulu, sir.
SCOTT: Never mind. I'll attend to it.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Main Phaser Power Control]
SCOTT: Phaser report, sir. No damage.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Very good. Thank you, Mister Scott. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Planet's rotation is carrying primary target beyond arc of phaser lock.
SULU: Shall I correct orbit to new firing position?
KIRK: No.
SPOCK: Lock on to secondary city.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact the Halkan council. I wish to talk to them again.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: This is a new race. They offer other things of value besides dilithium crystals.
SPOCK: But we cannot expect their co-operation. They have refused the Empire. Command procedure dictates that we provide the customary example.
SULU: Secondary target now moving beyond our phaser lock.
KIRK: Put phasers on standby, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: A serious breach of orders, Captain.
KIRK: I have my reasons, and I'll make them clear to you in my own good time.
UHURA: Captain, I have the leader on the Halkan Council waiting on channel B.
KIRK: It is useless to resist us. THARN [on viewscreen: We do not resist you.
KIRK: You have twelve hours to consider your position. THARN [on viewscreen: Twelve years, Captain Kirk, or twelve thousand. We are ethically compelled to deny your demand for our dilithium crystals, for you would use their power to destroy.
KIRK: We will level your planet and take what we want. That is destruction. You will die as a race. THARN [on viewscreen: To preserve what we are.
KIRK: We will not argue. Twelve hours. No more. Close communications. Turn phasers off.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Twelve hours, Captain? That is unprecedented.
KIRK: I shall be in my quarters. Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy and Mister Scott meet me there.
SPOCK: Captain, you've placed yourself in a most grave position. This conduct must be reported.
KIRK: You're at liberty to do so, Mister Spock.

[Turbolift]
CHEKOV: Deck five, sir?

[Corridor]
CHEKOV: So you die, Captain, and we all move up in rank. No one will question the assassination of a captain who has disobeyed prime orders of the Empire.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I command an Enterprise where officers apparently employ private henchmen among the crew, where assassination of superiors is a common means of advancing in rank.

[Corridor]
MAN: Your men, Captain. Easy, Farrell. I did your job. Ask the captain.
FARRELL: Sir?
KIRK: Yes, he did your job.
FARRELL: Smart boy, switching to the top dog.
KIRK: Get him out of here.
MAN: Mister Chekov was going to make me a chief. You could make me an officer.
KIRK: All right. You're working for me.
MAN: A commission?
KIRK: You're in line. You might even make captain.
MAN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Not on my ship.
FARRELL: The booth for this one, sir?
KIRK: Yes, the booth. Carry on.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: Here. Here. What's this?
KIRK: It's called blood. Watch your step. The officers move up by assassination. Chekov tried it on me.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu is Security Chief, like the ancient Gestapo.
MCCOY: And my Sickbay is a chamber of horrors. My assistants were betting on the tolerance of an injured man. How long it would take him to pass out from the pain.
KIRK: Report on technology.
SCOTT: Mostly variations in instrumentation. Nothing I can't handle.
KIRK: Star readings?
SCOTT: Everything's exactly where it should be, except us.
KIRK: Let's find out where we stand. Computer.
COMPUTER: Ready.
KIRK: This is the Captain. Record security research, to be classified under my voice print or Mister Scott's.
COMPUTER: Recorded.
KIRK: Produce all data relevant to the recent ion storm. Correlate following hypothesis. Could a storm of such magnitude cause a power surge in the transporter circuits creating a momentary interdimensional contact with a parallel universe?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
KIRK: At such a moment, could persons in each universe, in the act of beaming, transpose with their counterparts in the other universe?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
KIRK: Could conditions necessary to such an event be created artificially using the ship's power?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
KIRK: Record procedure. Scotty, can you do it?
SCOTT: Not by myself. I'll need help. And you'd be too conspicuous.
MCCOY: I'm a doctor, not an engineer.
SCOTT: Now you're an engineer. I'll have to tap the power we need from the warp engines and balance it for the four of us.
MCCOY: Jim, the way this ship is run, what kind of people are we in this universe?
KIRK: Let's find out. Computer.
COMPUTER: Ready.
KIRK: Read out official record of current command.
COMPUTER: Captain James T. Kirk succeeded to command ISS Enterprise through assassination of Captain Christopher Pike. First action, suppression of Gorlan uprising through destruction of rebel home planet. Second action, execution of five thousand colonists on Vega Nine.
KIRK: Cancel. Now we know.
SCOTT: Captain? We can do it.
KIRK: Good.
SCOTT: We have to lay in the automatic transporter setting, but when we interrupt engine circuits to tie the power increase into the transporter, it'll show up on Sulu's security board. Of course, we'll only need a second.
KIRK: I'll tell Uhura to create a diversion to distract Sulu, at your signal. Let's get back to our posts. Keep me advised.
MCCOY: Jim, if we're here, what do you suppose our counterparts doing back in our universe?
KIRK: On our Enterprise.

[Brig]
KIRK2: I order you, Let me go! Traitors! Spock, get these men off me! What is this?
MCCOY2: What are you doing, Spock?
KIRK2: You traitorous pig. I'll hang you up by your Vulcan ears. I'll have you all executed!
SPOCK: I think not. Your authority on this ship is extremely limited, Captain. The four of you will remain her in the Brig and in custody until I diskover how to return you to wherever it is you belong.
KIRK2: Has the whole galaxy gone crazy? What kind of a uniform is this? Where's your beard? What's going on? Where's my personal guard?
SPOCK: I can answer none of your questions at this time.
KIRK2: All right, Spock. Whatever your game is, I'll play it. You want credits, I'll give them to you. You'll be a rich man. A command of your own? I can swing that, too.
SPOCK: Apparently some kind of transposition has taken place. I find it extremely interesting.
KIRK2: Spock. What is it that will buy you? Power?
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK2: Power, Spock? I can get that for you!

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, I am pleased that you frustrated Mister Chekov's plan. I should regret your death.
KIRK: Why?
SPOCK: I do not desire the captaincy. I much prefer my scientific duties. I am frankly content to be a lesser target.
KIRK: Logical, as always, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: The agony booth is a most effective means of diskipline. I presume you've ordered full duration.
KIRK: I haven't decided.
SPOCK: Indeed. His act warrants death.
KIRK: I said I haven't decided.
SPOCK: That is, of course, your affair. Captain, may I inquire if you intend to persist in your unusual course of action regarding the Halkans?
KIRK: You heard my orders.
SPOCK: They are, of course, in contradiction to standard Empire procedure. You cannot ignore the consequences.
KIRK: Is that a threat?
SPOCK: I do not threaten, Captain. I merely state facts. I have found you to be an excellent officer. Our missions together have been both successful and profitable. However, I shall not permit your aberrations to jeopardize my position.
KIRK: Spock, do you think we should destroy the Halkans?
SPOCK: Terror must be maintained or the Empire is doomed. It is the logic of history.
KIRK: Conquest is easy, control is not. We may have bitten off more than we can chew.
SPOCK: Captain, I do not wish to find myself opposing you, but if you continue on your present course, this confusing, inexplicable behavior,
KIRK: Is my concern, not yours. You would find me a formidable enemy.
SPOCK: I'm aware of that, Captain. I trust that you are aware of the reverse.
FARRELL: Orders, sir?
KIRK: Release Chekov. Confine him to quarters.
FARRELL: Yes, sir.

[Engineering]
MCCOY: That ought to hold him for about six hours. (They go to the upper level, and Scott begins his work.

[Kirk's quarters]
MARLENA: I fell asleep. We had quite a time in the chem lab picking up after the storm. Nothing compared to your day, I gather. I heard about Chekov.
KIRK: He gambled, I won.
MARLENA: You got lucky. I'm surprised you could be caught off-guard that way.
KIRK: I was preoccupied. .
MARLENA: You're still in trouble with Starfleet Command. What you've got in mind this time is beyond me. You're scheming, of course. The Halkans have something you want, or, is it all some clever means to advance you to the Admiralty? Kirk. The Cabinet itself?
KIRK: Further than that, if I'm successful.
MARLENA: Really? Well, you must know what you're doing. You always do. If I'm to be the woman of a Caesar, can't I know what you're up to?
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Mister Spock, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Yes.
SPOCK: I have received a private communication from Starfleet Command. I am committing a breach of regulations by informing you of its contents.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: I am instructed to wait until planet dawn over principal target to permit you to carry out our mission.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: And if I don't?

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: In that event, I am ordered to kill you and to proceed against the Halkans as the new captain of the Enterprise.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate unknown. We are trapped in a savage, parallel universe from which we must escape within four hours, or I will face a death sentence at Mister Spock's hands.

[Kirk's quarters]
MARLENA: Let's drink a toast to Spock, The only man aboard with the decency to warn you, and he'll die for it. They'll never find another man like him.
KIRK: I don't intend to kill him.
MARLENA: Are you going to act against the Halkans before the deadline?
KIRK: No, but I'll avoid killing Spock.
MARLENA: Just get him out of the way, he and his men.
KIRK: I'll get out of his way.
MARLENA: Shall I activate the Tantalus field? You'll at least want to monitor him, won't you?
KIRK: Yes.
MARLENA: I hate this thing.
KIRK: It's not that bad.
MARLENA: Of course not. It made you captain. How many enemies have you simply wiped out of existence by the touch of a button? Fifty? A hundred? Now, I always thought that was funny, The great, powerful Captain Kirk who owes everything to some unknown alien scientist and a plundered laboratory.
KIRK: Well, if you don't take advantage of your opportunities
MARLENA: You don't rise to the command of a starship or even higher.
MARLENA: That magnificent mind of his. But it can't protect him from this. I press it and he dies. Now?
MARLENA: You really mean it. It doesn't matter. If Spock fails his order, he'll be killed anyway.
KIRK: I'll see to it that the circumstances of his failure will clear him.
MARLENA: You're not even afraid of Starfleet Command. Can your scheme bring you that much power so quickly? And what about me? How does Marlena fit in?
KIRK: How does Marlena want to fit in?
KIRK: Scotty.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scotty here, sir.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: We have to get out of here within three hours. Spock has orders to kill me unless I complete the mission.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: We've got another deadline, too, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Explain.
SCOTT: The two-way matter transmission affected the local field density between the universes, and it's increasing. We've got to move fast.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: How fast?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Half hour at the most.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: If we miss?
SCOTT (voiceover): We couldn't get out of here in a century. We're ready to bridge power from the engines to the transporter.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: You've got to get down there and free the board so we can lock in. Give me about ten minutes.

[Kirk's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): I've got to complete a few more computations.
KIRK: All right. I'll be in the transporter room in ten minutes. I'll meet you in Sickbay afterward.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Computer?
COMPUTER: ready.
SPOCK: Explain computer activity in the engineering section.
COMPUTER: A security research is in progress.
SPOCK: Who is conducting the research?
COMPUTER: The Captain and Mister Scott.
SPOCK: What is the nature of the research?
COMPUTER: Program is classified under voice index log.
SPOCK: Why are you monitoring my communications, Mister Sulu?

[Bridge]
SULU: My security board has detected extensive use of computer, Mister Spock. I was about to inform you.

[Spock's quarters]
SULU (voiceover): It's not hard to guess the nature of your order from Starfleet Command. I suggest a connection. The captain suspects.

[Bridge]
SULU: He's working on escape or defense.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: That is my concern.

[Bridge]
SULU: Correct. It's your play. I hope you succeed, because the order would fall on me next and you know how Captain Kirk's enemies have a habit of disappearing.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: If I am successful, you see yourself a step nearer to the captaincy. I do not want to command the Enterprise, but if it should befall me, I suggest you remember that my operatives would avenge my death and some of them are Vulcans.

[Kirk's quarters]
MARLENA: Oiling my traps, darling. I'm afraid I'm a little out of practice. Maybe that's what happened to us? It's very hard for a working officer to shine as a woman every minute, and you demand perfection.
KIRK: I've never seen perfection, but no woman could come closer to it.
MARLENA: I remember when you used to talk that way.
KIRK: I still do.
MARLENA: Prove it.
KIRK: I've got to go.
MARLENA: Ship's business? An important task on the crew deck? Well, I guess it's over. Commander Kenno will take me temporarily. He's made that quite clear. I'll call a yeoman to help me with my things.
KIRK: You don't have to do that.
MARLENA: Are you feeling sorry for me? Do I see hesitation in your eyes about anything? I want one thing, Captain. Transfer me. On the Enterprise, I am humiliated! On another ship, I can hunt fresh game. I've got my rank, and. Don't I? I've been a captain's woman, and I like it. I'll be one again if I have to go through every officer in the fleet.
KIRK: You could. I simply meant that you could be anything you want to be.
MARLENA: It's been a long time since you've kissed me like that. You're a stranger. Mercy to the Halkans, mercy to Spock, to me. Am I your woman?
KIRK: You're the Captain's woman until he says you're not.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Uhura?
UHURA (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty's signal should be coming through any moment. You know what to do.
UHURA (voiceover): I've got a pretty good idea, sir.
KIRK: Keep Sulu's attention off that board.
UHURA (voiceover): I'll do my best, sir.
KIRK: Good luck. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
UHURA: You aren't very persistent, Mister Sulu. The game has rules. You're ignoring them. I protest and you come back. You didn't come back.
SULU: Now you're making sense.
UHURA: I was getting bored. Of course this isn't the time.
SULU: Any time's a good time.
UHURA: I'm afraid I changed my mind. Again.
SULU: You take a lot of chances, Lieutenant.
UHURA: So do you, Mister. So do you. Take over for me.

[Turbolift]
UHURA: Mister Scott, all clear. On my way to Sickbay.

[Jefferies tube]
MCCOY: Now it's up to the captain.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Please restrict your movements, Captain.
KIRK: What are you doing? Are you going to shoot me now, Spock? I thought I had until dawn.
SPOCK: I shall make that decision. Since your return from the planet, you've behaved in a most atypical and illogical manner. I want to know why.
KIRK: Shoot. You're wasting time.
SPOCK: I shall not waste time with you. You're too inflexible, too diskiplined once you've made up your mind. But Doctor McCoy has a plenitude of human weaknesses, sentimental, soft. You may not tell me what I want to know, but he will.
KIRK: You're running a big risk, Spock.
SPOCK: I have the phaser, Captain, and I do not intend to simply disappear as so many of your opponents have in the past. If you please. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Yes, of course. The entire landing party. Captain, stand over there. Doctor, it is time for answers.
KIRK: How much time, Scotty?
SCOTT: Hardly fifteen minutes, sir. The field density between the two universes is starting to close very fast.
MCCOY: Help me get him on the table. Well, come on. Help me get him on the table. He'll die without immediate treatment.
KIRK: Everything laid in, Scotty? The time lag so the operator can get into the transporter chamber?
SCOTT: All laid in, sir. Come on, McCoy! We're taking a chance of not getting back home.
MCCOY: We'll get home. This won't take long.

[Kirk's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): Fourteen minutes. We've got to go!
MCCOY (voiceover): Shut up? I can save his life.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Do you want me to stop, Jim? It'll only take a minute.
KIRK: He is very much like our own Mister Spock, isn't he? You've got that minute.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY (voiceover): A little time, he'll live.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: What is this, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Mister Spock has orders to kill you, Captain. He will succeed, apparently. You will also appear to have killed him after a fierce battle. Regrettable, but it will leave me in command.
SCOTT: Captain, we've barely got ten minutes.
KIRK: Let's go, Bones.
MCCOY: I can't let him die, Jim. You get on to the transporter room. I'll be there in five minutes.
KIRK: No longer.
MCCOY: I guarantee it. Now, go on, please.
SPOCK: Why did the captain let me live?
SPOCK: Our minds are merging, Doctor. Our minds are one. I feel what you feel. I know what you know.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: A friend. Activate the transporter. You saved us back at Sickbay with the Tantalus field.
MARLENA: Take me with you.
KIRK: I can't. I'm sorry. Our power is balanced for four. There's no guarantee that we'll make it with five. All could die. Scotty?
SCOTT: It's working, sir.
MARLENA: But there are only three of you.
KIRK: One is coming. I'd help you if I could, Marlena. Believe that.
KIRK: If you kill us, you'll still stay.
KIRK: Where's McCoy? Time, Scotty.
SCOTT: Five minutes, sir.
MARLENA: Do you know what they'll do to me?
SCOTT: The power's cut, sir. They're on to us.
KIRK: Auxiliary.
SCOTT: Aye, it's available.
KIRK: Can you bridge to your setup?
SCOTT: I can get us the power, but the automatic setting is linked to the transporter main. If we bypass, that means that someone has got to operate the controls manually.
KIRK: One of us will have to stay.
SCOTT: I'll stay, Captain.
KIRK: Get to the transporter chamber. You, too, Uhura.
SCOTT: Jim.
KIRK: That's an order, Scotty.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.
MARLENA: What about me?
KIRK: McCoy.
SPOCK: I cut the transporter power. It was necessary to delay your beam-out until I could arrive. Take him.
SPOCK: Engineering, re-activate main transporter circuits.
KIRK: You're a man of integrity in both universes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: You must return to your universe. I must have my captain back. I shall operate the transporter. You have two minutes and ten seconds.
KIRK: In that time I have something to say. How long before the Halkan prediction of galactic revolt is realized?
SPOCK: Approximately two hundred and forty years.
KIRK: The inevitable outcome?
SPOCK: The Empire shall be overthrown, of course.
KIRK: The illogic of waste, Mister Spock. The waste of lives, potential, resources, time. I submit to you that your Empire is illogical because it cannot endure. I submit that you are illogical to be a willing part of it.
SPOCK: You have one minute and twenty three seconds.
KIRK: If change is inevitable, predictable, beneficial, doesn't logic demand that you be a part of it?
SPOCK: One man cannot summon the future.
KIRK: But one man can change the present. Be the captain of this Enterprise, Mister Spock. Find a logical reason for sparing the Halkans and make it stick. Push till it gives. You can defend yourself better than any man in the fleet.
SCOTT: Captain, get in the chamber!
KIRK: What about it, Spock?
SPOCK: A man must also have the power.
KIRK: In my cabin is a device that will make you invincible.
SPOCK: Indeed?
KIRK: What will it be? Past or future? Tyranny or freedom? It's up to you.
SPOCK: It is time.
KIRK: In every revolution, there's one man with a vision.
SPOCK: Captain Kirk, I shall consider it.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Welcome home, Captain.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What I don't understand is how were you able to identify our counterparts so quickly?
SPOCK: It was far easier for you as civilized men to behave like barbarians, than it was for them as barbarians to behave like civilized men. I assume they returned to their Enterprise at the same time you appeared here.
KIRK: Probably. However, that Jim Kirk will find a few changes, if I read my Spocks correctly.
MCCOY: Jim, I think I liked him with a beard better. It gave him character. Of course almost any change would be a distinct improvement.
KIRK: What worries me is the easy way his counterpart fitted into that other universe. I always thought Spock was a bit of a pirate at heart.
SPOCK: Indeed, gentlemen. May I point out that I had an opportunity to observe your counterparts here quite closely. They were brutal, savage, unprincipled, uncivilized, treacherous, In every way, splendid examples of homo sapiens, the very flower of humanity. I found them quite refreshing.
KIRK: I'm not sure, but I think we've been insulted.
MCCOY: I'm sure.
MARLENA: Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Lieutenant, er, Lieutenant?
MARLENA: Marlena Moreau. I was just assigned last week.
KIRK: All right, Lieutenant. Carry on.
SPOCK: You've met her before, Captain?
KIRK: Uh, why do you ask?
SPOCK: Your reaction, One of recognition.
KIRK: Oh, no. No, no. We haven't met before, exactly. She just seemed a nice, likable girl. I think we could become friends. It's possible.

[Settlement]
KIRK: Where is everyone?
MCCOY: Perhaps they weren't expecting us.
SPOCK: Our arrival was scheduled well in advance, Doctor. The annual check of every scientific expedition is routine.
KIRK: I had a subspace contact with a Robert Johnson, the leader of this expedition, an hour ago.
MCCOY: Did he report anything wrong?
KIRK: No, yet there was something wrong. I can't pin it down. His conversation was disjointed, his thoughts a little foggy, unrelated. Chekov, check that building. Mister Spock and I will check this one. The rest of you, take a look around. See if you can find anyone.
CHEKOV: Captain! Captain! Captain! Captain!
KIRK: What is it?
CHEKOV: A man, sir. In there. A dead man.

[Building]
KIRK: Well?
MCCOY: Exactly what it looks like. Death by natural causes. Old age.
SPOCK: Quite impossible, Doctor. I ran a personnel check on this expedition before we beamed down. I assure you that none of them were (He is interrupted by the entrance of an old man and woman.
ROBERT: They've come to pay their respects to Alvin.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk of
ROBERT: You'll have to speak louder.
KIRK: I say I'm Captain Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Who are you?
ROBERT: I'm Robert Johnson. This is my wife, Elaine.
KIRK: How old are you? How old are you?
ROBERT: I'm, er, let me see. I am twenty nine, and Elaine is
ELAINE: I'm twenty seven.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3478.2. On a routine mission to re-supply the experimental colony at Gamma Hydra Four, we diskovered a most unusual phenomenon. Of the six members of the colony, none of whom were over thirty, we found four had died and two were dying of old age.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Mister Johnson, can you hear me?
ROBERT: I can hear you. Not deaf yet, you know. Not yet.
KIRK: Can you tell me what happened?
ROBERT: What happened?
KIRK: Did your instruments show anything?
ROBERT: Elaine was so beautiful. So beautiful. So beautiful.
MCCOY: He can hear you, Jim, but he doesn't understand. Let's let him rest.
KIRK: If they seem lucid, I'll be in the briefing room.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Stay seated. Commodore Stocker, I've asked you to be part of this briefing because Gamma Hydra Four falls in your administrative area.
STOCKER: I appreciate that, sir.
KIRK: Doctor Wallace, as an expert in endocrinology, I'd appreciate you working very closely Doctor McCoy.
WALLACE: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, would you fill them in?
MCCOY: The expedition is suffering from extreme old age, and they're growing older by the minute. Much older. My examinations have turned up absolutely nothing. In fact, I don't have a clue.
KIRK: What about the atmosphere and environment, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Sensors reveal nothing which is inimical to human life. The atmosphere screens out the usual amount of harmful cosmic rays.
KIRK: We're close to the neutral Zone between our Federation and the Romulan empire. It's possible the Romulans have a new weapon and are using this colony as guinea pigs.
SPOCK: I have already begun investigation into that possibility, Captain.
KIRK: Good. I want you all to check out everything in your own departments. No matter how remote, how far-fetched the notion, I want it run down. We'll stay in orbit until we have the answer.
STOCKER: I'm sure you understand that I'm anxious to get to Starbase Ten to assume my new post.
KIRK: Yes, Commodore. We'll do everything we can to make sure you make your duty.
STOCKER: Thank you, sir.
KIRK: Doctor, is there something I can do for you?
WALLACE: Well, be a little less the cool, efficient Captain and a little more the old friend.
KIRK: How long has it been?
WALLACE: Six years, four months, and an odd number of days. You mean you don't know?
KIRK: Well, it's been a long time. Things wouldn't change if it started all over again, would it? You have your job, I have my ship, and neither one of us will change.
WALLACE: You said it. I didn't. In all those years, I only heard from you once. A stargram when my husband died. You know, you never asked me why I got married after we called it off.
KIRK: Well, I supposed that you met someone you loved.
WALLACE: I met a man I admired. A great man.
KIRK: And in your field as you. You didn't give up a thing.
WALLACE: No. Just you.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk, Mister Spock would like to see you on the Bridge.
KIRK: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
SULU: Standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Maintain.
SPOCK: I've rechecked the sensors, Captain. Gamma Hydra Four checks out as a Class M planet with a conventional oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere and normal mass. I can find nothing at all out of the ordinary.
KIRK: What about the comet that astrophysics reported?
SPOCK: We're checking it on it. I've reached no conclusions as yet. The comet was a rogue and has never been investigated.
STOCKER: Captain Kirk?
KIRK: Yes, Commodore.
STOCKER: Facilities at Starbase Ten are much more complete than those on board ship. It seems to me that your investigations would be facilitated if we proceeded there. I assure you all co-operation.
KIRK: Thank you. You're anxious to get to the base, but we have a few facilities of our own here. I think the Enterprise will do quite nicely. I'll be in engineering, Mister Spock. Maintain standard orbit, Mister Sulu.
SULU: You already gave that command, sir.
KIRK: Oh? Well, follow it.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Lieutenant Galway.
GALWAY: Doctor, may I speak to you for a moment, please?
MCCOY: Of course. Go right ahead.
GALWAY: I know this is going to sound foolish, but I seem to be having a little trouble hearing.
MCCOY: It's probably nothing important.
GALWAY: I never had trouble before.
MCCOY: Well, don't worry about it. Perhaps a little hypersonic treatment might clear it up.
GALWAY: Thank you.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Progress report, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (screen): All research lines negative, Captain.
KIRK: Astronomical section reports that a comet recently passed by. Check into that.
SPOCK (screen): I'm doing that, Captain, as per your previous order. We diskussed that earlier.
KIRK: Oh, yes. Let me know what you come up with. I'll be in the Sickbay.
SPOCK (screen): Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: The last one. Robert Johnson. Cause of death, old age.
KIRK: You did what you could.
MCCOY: Which adds up to absolutely nothing.

[McCoy's office]
SCOTT (voiceover): Doctor McCoy, this is Scott. May I come see you?
MCCOY: All you need are vitamins, but you can come up anyhow.
KIRK: Bones, I believe you're getting gray.
MCCOY: You take over my job and see what happens to you.
KIRK: I see what you mean.
MCCOY: What's your problem, Jim?
KIRK: Shoulder. Just a twinge. Probably muscular strain.
MCCOY: You're probably right, Doctor. By the way, I don't like how you've been running this ship lately.
KIRK: All right. Reprimand received. Go ahead.
MCCOY: Jim, I think we better'd run a complete physical on you.
KIRK: Why? Just muscular strain, isn't it?
MCCOY: No, Jim. It's advanced arthritis, and it's spreading.
KIRK: That's impossible.
MCCOY: I can run it through again, but I'll come up with the same thing.
KIRK: Scotty!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3579.4. The Enterprise personnel who beamed down to the planet's surface, Doctor McCoy, Engineer Scott, Mister Spock, Lieutenant Galway, and myself are all showing definite signs of aging. Only Ensign Chekov appears to be normal.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Report, Bones.
MCCOY: All of us who went down to the surface, with the exception of Chekov, are aging at various rates. Approximately thirty years for each day. I don't know what's causing it. A virus, a bacteria, or evil spirits, but I'm trying to find out.
KIRK: Spock, could I ask for some figures?
SPOCK: Based on what Doctor McCoy gave me, I estimate that physically we each have less than a week to live. Also, since our mental faculties are aging faster than our bodies, we will be little better than mental vegetables in considerably lesser time.
KIRK: Total senility?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. In a very short time.
KIRK: What a way to die. All right. I want all the research facilities, all the scientific technicians, to start round-the-clock research immediately. I want the answers, and I want the remedy. Let's start by finding out why Chekov hasn't been affected.
MCCOY: I'm doing what I can. You're perfectly healthy.
SPOCK: I must differ with you, Doctor. I'm having difficulty concentrating, which is most disturbing, my eye sight appears to be failing, and the normal temperature of the ship seems to me to be increasingly cold.
MCCOY: I did not say you weren't affected, Mister Spock. You are perfectly healthy, that is, for any normal Vulcan on the high side of a hundred.
SCOTT: Captain, can I go back to my station?
KIRK: You feel up to it?
SCOTT: Of course I do. I just need a wee bit of rest, that's all.
MCCOY: You can leave, too, Lieutenant Galway. Lieutenant Galway?
GALWAY: What? You spoke to me, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes, I spoke to you. I said that you could leave, too. Now why don't you go down to your quarters and get some sleep.
GALWAY: No. I don't want to sleep. Can't you understand? If I sleep, what will I find when I wake up?
KIRK: Lieutenant Galway, assume your position. Start your duties.
GALWAY: Thank you, sir. What a stupid place to hang a mirror.
KIRK: She's ten years younger than I am, and she looks,
MCCOY: People age normally at different speeds, Jim.
KIRK: Why hasn't he aged?
MCCOY: I don't know.
KIRK: Well I want to know! Is it his youth, his blood type, his heritage, his glands, his genes?
MCCOY: His genes. All right, nurse. Prepare Chekov for another complete physical.
CHAPEL: Come along, Ensign. This won't hurt. Much.
CHEKOV: Promises.

[McCoy's office]
WALLACE: A few years ago on Aldebaran Three, my husband and I tried various carbohydrate compounds to slow down the degeneration of plant life.
MCCOY: Then try that, Doctor Wallace. Try anything, but do it quickly.
WALLACE: Yes, sir.
KIRK: I'll be on the Bridge. Keep me posted as to Chekov.

[Corridor]
KIRK: I thought you were on your way to the biochemistry lab, Doctor.
WALLACE: We both go in the same direction.
KIRK: So we do.
WALLACE: Look, we know the problem. We know the progress of the affliction. Therefore, once we find the proper line of research, it's only logical we find the solution.
KIRK: You sound like my first officer.
WALLACE: No problem is insoluble. Not even ours.
KIRK: That didn't spring from logic.
WALLACE: Our situation doesn't have its roots in logic. The heart is not a logical organ. When I married Theodore Wallace, I thought I was over you. I was wrong.
KIRK: When did you realize that? Today?
WALLACE: What?
KIRK: How much older was your husband than you?
WALLACE: What difference does that make?
KIRK: Answer me.
WALLACE: Twenty six years.
KIRK: That's quite a difference.
WALLACE: Jim, he was a brilliant man. We were stationed on a lonely outpost. We were working together. I don't want to talk about him. I want to talk about us.
KIRK: Look at me. Look at me. What do you see?
WALLACE: I see Captain James Kirk, a man of morality, decency, handsome, and strong.
KIRK: And old. And rapidly growing older.
WALLACE: Jim, please.
KIRK: What are you offering me, Jan? Love, or a going away present?

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Give us some more blood, Chekov. The needle won't hurt, Chekov. Take off your shirt, Chekov. Roll over, Chekov. Breathe deeply, Chekov. Blood sample, Chekov. Marrow sample, Chekov. Skin sample, Chekov. If I live long enough, I'm going to run out of samples.
SULU: You'll live.
CHEKOV: Oh, yes. I'll live, but I won't enjoy it.
SULU: Maintaining standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Increase orbit to twenty thousand perigee, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
ATKINS: Will you sign this, sir?
KIRK: Yeoman. You have a reason for being on the Bridge, Commodore Stocker?
STOCKER: I'd hoped for a few words with you at your convenience.
KIRK: I have very little time.
STOCKER: If I may say so sir, we have a due date at Starbase Ten.
KIRK: We're going to be late. I don't intend to leave this area until we've found the solution for this problem.
STOCKER: Captain, I'm watching four very valuable and one almost irreplaceable members of the Starfleet failing before my eyes. I want to do something to help.
KIRK: Yes, yes. If you're so concerned, I'll send a message to Starbase Ten.
SPOCK: Captain, you sent such a message this morning.
KIRK: Yeoman? Where's that
ATKINS: Sir?
KIRK: Fuel consumption report?
ATKINS: I gave it to you. You signed it.
KIRK: If I'd signed it, I wouldn't have asked for it, now would l?
ATKINS: Your signature, Captain.
SPOCK: Captain, I believe Captain. Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock. I was just thinking.
SPOCK: Yes, sir. Quite understandable.
KIRK: You have something to report?
SPOCK: Yes, sir. We have the cause of the affliction.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: The orbit of Gamma Hydra Four carried the planet directly through the comet's trail. On conventional radiation settings, we diskovered nothing. On resetting our sensors to the extreme lower range of the scale, undetected radiation appeared. Below normal radiation levels but definitely present, and undoubtedly residue from the comet.
KIRK: Good, Spock. Well done. Let's get this to Doctor McCoy immediately. Oh. Lieutenant, take a message to Starfleet Command. Due to the proximity of the Romulans, you'd better use Code two.
UHURA: But, Captain, the Romulans have broken Code two. If you remember the last bulletin
KIRK: Then use Code three.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Code three.
KIRK: Message. Key to affliction may be comet which passed by Gamma Hydra Four. Said comet is now,
SPOCK: Quadrant four four eight, sir.
KIRK: Quadrant. All units are to be alerted for complete analysis of radiation and means found to neutralize it. Comet is highly dangerous. Kirk, commanding Enterprise. Immediately, Lieutenant. Let's go.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Oh, Mister Sulu. Increase orbit to twenty thousand mile perigee.
SULU: You mean another twenty thousand, Captain?
KIRK: I fail to understand why each one of my commands is being questioned. Now do as you're told, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, what is our present position?
SULU: Orbiting at twenty thousand, sir.
KIRK: Maintain.
SULU: Maintaining, sir.

[Biochemistry lab]
MCCOY: Radiation? That's as good an answer as any, but why didn't we know about it earlier?
SPOCK: Possibly, Doctor, because my thinking processes are not as efficient as before.
MCCOY: Run this through, Doctor.
KIRK: All right, Bones, I'm going up to the Bridge. Keep me posted. Spock?
SPOCK: I have a question for the doctor. Doctor, the ship's temperature is increasingly uncomfortable for me. I've adjusted the environment in my quarters to one hundred twenty five degrees, which is at least tolerable. However, I
MCCOY: Well, I see I'm not going to be making any house calls on you.
SPOCK: I wondered if perhaps there was something which could lower my sensitivity to cold.
MCCOY: I'm not a magician, Spock, just an old country doctor.
SPOCK: Yes. As I always suspected.
WALLACE: Doctor McCoy, none of our usual radiation therapies will have any effect on this radiation sickness.
MCCOY: Well, then we just start over, that's all. We work harder, faster, and we start completely from scratch if we have to. But we find something.

[Corridor]
STOCKER: Spock, can I have a word with you?
SPOCK: Commodore?
STOCKER: Mister Spock, a starship can function with a Chief Engineer, a Chief Medical Officer, even a First Officer under physical par. But it's disastrous to have a commanding officer whose condition is any less than perfection.
SPOCK: I am aware of that.
STOCKER: Please understand me. My admiration for Captain Kirk is unbounded. He is a great officer. But Mister Spock, I need your help and your co-operation.
SPOCK: For what, sir?
STOCKER: I would like you to take over command of the Enterprise.
SPOCK: On what grounds, Commodore?
STOCKER: On the grounds that the captain, because of his affliction, is unable to perform his duties.
SPOCK: Need I remind you, sir, that I too have contracted the same affliction?
STOCKER: Yes, but you're a Vulcan. You have a much greater life span. You show the affects to a much smaller degree.
SPOCK: I'm half human, sir. My physical reflexes are down, my mental capacity is reduced. I tire easily. No, sir. I am not fit for command.
STOCKER: Well, if you are not, with your Vulcan physique, then obviously Captain Kirk cannot be.
SPOCK: Sir, I do have duties to perform.
STOCKER: Mister Spock. I do not like what I'm about to say but regulations demand it. And as a Starfleet flag officer, I must follow regulations. As second in command of the Enterprise, you must convene an extraordinary competency hearing.
SPOCK: I resist that suggestion, Commodore.
STOCKER: It's not a matter of choice. When a captain is unfit, physically or mentally, a competency hearing is mandatory. Please don't make me quote a regulation which you know as well as I do.
SPOCK: Very well, sir. The hearing shall convene at fourteen hundred hours.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Now this isn't going to hurt a bit.
CHEKOV: That's what you said the last time.
MCCOY: Did it hurt?
CHEKOV: Yes.
GALWAY: Doctor.
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY: She's dead. Her metabolism caused her to age more rapidly than the rest of us, but the same thing's going to happen to us unless
KIRK: How long have we got, Bones?
MCCOY: Oh, a matter of days. Perhaps hours.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Let it read that this competency hearing was ordered by Commodore Stocker and reluctantly called by myself.
KIRK: Let it also read that I consider it invalid.
STOCKER: Mister Spock, may I make a statement? I have had to resort to these legal grounds in order to save the lives of some very valuable members of the Starfleet. I have tried to convince Captain Kirk of the necessity of proceeding to Starbase Ten, but I've been overruled in each case. The responsibility of this hearing is mine.
SPOCK: On the contrary, Commodore. As presiding officer and as second in command of the Enterprise, the responsibility is mine. Captain Kirk, would you like to make a statement?
KIRK: Yes, I would like to make a statement. I am the captain of this ship and am totally capable of commanding her. Let's call this whole thing off and get back to work.
SPOCK: It is quite impossible, Captain. The regulations are quite specific. You are entitled to direct examination of all witnesses immediately after the board has questioned them.
KIRK: Very kind of you, Spock.
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, how long have you served with Captain Kirk?
SULU: Two years, sir.
SPOCK: To your knowledge, has he ever had any difficulty making decisions?
SULU: No, sir.
SPOCK: Did he order you to maintain standard orbit around Gamma Hydra Four?
SULU: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Did he not, several minutes later, repeat that order?
SULU: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Did he order you to increase orbit?
SULU: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Did he not several minutes later repeat that order?
KIRK: He did not. When I give an order, I expect it to be obeyed. I don't have to repeat myself.
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, please answer the question.
SULU: Yes, sir. Captain Kirk repeated his order.
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Sulu. Yeoman Atkins, you handed Captain Kirk a fuel consumption report in the presence of witnesses, which he read and signed. Is that correct?
ATKINS: Sir, he had more important things on his mind.
SPOCK: Yeoman, you will simply answer the question.
ATKINS: I, I guess he forgot he'd signed it.
SPOCK: You guess?
ATKINS: He'd forgot he'd signed it.
SPOCK: Thank you, Yeoman. You may leave. Lieutenant Uhura. I have here a bulletin from Starfleet Command which states that the Romulans have broken Code two. Are these your initials which appear at the bottom?
UHURA: They are.
SPOCK: And whose initials are those which appear directly below yours?
UHURA: Those of Captain Kirk.
SPOCK: Did Captain Kirk ask you to send a message about the comet which passed Gamma Hydra Four?
UHURA: He did.
SPOCK: Using Code two.
UHURA: Oh, yes, but he changed it to Code three.
SPOCK: After you reminded him that the Romulans had broken Code two.
UHURA: Yes.
SPOCK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Doctor McCoy, Doctor McCoy!
MCCOY: Yes, Spock? What is it?
SPOCK: Several hours ago, at the request of this board, you ran a complete physical examination of Captain Kirk.
MCCOY: I did.
SPOCK: Medical banks, compute described subject's physical age, using established norms as comparative base.
COMPUTER: Working. Subject's physical age based on physiological profile, between sixty and seventy two. Aging rapidly.
KIRK: No, I'm thirty four. I'm thirty four years old.
STOCKER: The computer differs with you, Captain.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Yes.
SPOCK: Will you give us your professional evaluation of Captain Kirk's present physical condition.
MCCOY: Captain Kirk is suffering from a, a peculiar physical degeneration which strongly resembles aging.
SPOCK: Is not his mental capacity degenerating even more rapidly?
MCCOY: Yes, yes, but he's a better man right now
SPOCK: Doctor, you heard the computer's analysis of Captain Kirk's physical age. Do you agree with it?
MCCOY: It's a blasted machine, Spock! You can't argue with a machine.
SPOCK: Do you agree with it, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes. Yes, I do, agree. And I am sorry, Jim.
SPOCK: This board has no further questions. Unless you, Commodore Stocker, have something that you would like to add.
STOCKER: No. I am quite satisfied, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Do you wish to call any witnesses, Captain Kirk?
KIRK: I am perfectly capable of speaking in my own defense, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, I would suggest
KIRK: No, no, no. It's all right, Spock. It's all right. There's only one reason, and one reason alone, for having this, hearing. I refused to leave Gamma Hydra Two
SPOCK: Gamma Hydra Four, Captain.
KIRK: Yes. A slip of the tongue.
SPOCK: You're inability to remember having given commands, reading and signing important orders and then forgetting them, your physical analysis as compiled by our own chief surgeon. All these things would appear to be irrefutable proof of failing physical and mental conditions.
KIRK: So I'm a little confused. Who wouldn't be at a time like this? My ship's in trouble, my senior officers are ill. And this nonsense about a competency hearing is enough to mix up any man. Trying to relieve a captain of his command is, well, that's, that's. Spock, I wouldn't have believed it of you. Go ahead. Ask me questions. I'll show you what I'm capable of. There's nothing wrong with my memory. Go ahead! Ask me anything! We're in orbit around Gamma Hydra Two, right? Anyhow, it doesn't matter. There's a lot more to running a starship than answering a lot of fool questions. A lot more. Go ahead. Ask me questions.
SPOCK: We have no more questions, Captain.
KIRK: Ask me anything. Anything.
SPOCK: There'll be no more questions, Captain. If you would leave the room so the board can vote
KIRK: Good idea. Get this stupid voting over with so I can get back to running the ship. The most fool thing I ever heard of. Competency hearing when there's work to be done. I'll be in my quarters, awaiting your decision.
STOCKER: Well, since the senior officers are incapable and I am of flag rank, I am forced by regulations to assume command.
SPOCK: Sir, you have never commanded a starship.
STOCKER: What would you have, a junior officer with far less experience than I have?
SPOCK: The danger from the Romulans
STOCKER: Mister Spock, we have to save these people. Mister Sulu, set a direct course for Starbase Ten. Warp five.
SULU: Across the Neutral Zone?
STOCKER: Immediately, Mister Sulu. All officers are to return to their posts.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: So, I've been relieved.
SPOCK: I'm sorry, Captain.
KIRK: Yes. You should've been a prosecuting attorney.
SPOCK: Regulations require
KIRK: Regulations. Don't give me regulations. You've wanted command all along. First little excuse you get
SPOCK: Captain, I have not assumed command.
KIRK: I hope you're proud of. What do you mean, you've not assumed command?
SPOCK: I suffer the same affliction as you, sir.
KIRK: If you're not in command, who is?
SPOCK: Commodore Stocker.
KIRK: Stocker? Are you crazy? He's never had a field command.
SPOCK: Mister Scott was unfit for command. Commodore Stocker is ranking officer
KIRK: No! Don't talk to me about rank! The man's a chair-bound paper-pusher. I order you to take command.
SPOCK: I cannot, Captain.
KIRK: Are you refusing a direct order?
SPOCK: No, sir. Only Commodore Stocker can give a command order onboard this ship.
KIRK: You traitorous, disloyal, you stab me in the back the first chance you get? Spock. Get out. I never want to have to look at you again.
KIRK: Jan, Jan.
WALLACE: Oh, Jim. I'm sorry. Truly I am.
KIRK: I made a fool of myself in there. I shouldn't have let them confuse me, rattle me.
WALLACE: Everybody understood.
KIRK: But I'm not old, Jan. I'm not. A few muscular aches doesn't make a man old. And you don't run a starship with your arms. You run it with your head. My brain's as sharp as it ever was. A simple case of radiation poisoning, and they relieve me of my command. I admit I'm getting a little gray, but radiation will do that to you.
WALLACE: Oh, Jim, will you forgive me? I have work to do.
KIRK: Jan, you know me. Look at me closely. Tell me. Am I getting old?

[Doctor's office]
KIRK: What are you doing here?
SPOCK: It would seem to be the place where I can be of the most use.
KIRK: Maybe you'd like to relieve Doctor McCoy. What about Chekov?
MCCOY: Nothing. Absolutely nothing.
KIRK: Bones, there has to be. There has to be. We beamed down together. We were on the surface together. The same spot. We were together all the time.
SPOCK: No, not all the time. Captain, he left us for a few moments.
KIRK: He left us? He left us. He went into the building. Spock, something happened.
SPOCK: Yes. Yes, indeed, Captain. Doctor, you remember
KIRK: He was scared! He saw the dead body and he ran out of the building and he was scared to death.
MCCOY: Yes, yes. Now that could be. Right. Scared. Heart beats faster, breathe gets short, and there's cold sweats and adrenaline flows. Adrenal activity. Now hold on Just a minute. There was something that I read once. It was ancient history, just after the atomic age. Used for radiation sickness. Adrenaline.
WALLACE: Doctor, hyronalin is the specific accepted for all radiation sickness.
MCCOY: Yes, yes. Now. But before, adrenaline. Highly promising. Early research, but they abandoned it when hyronalin was diskovered.
SPOCK: Quite possible, Doctor. Perhaps a sufficiently efficacious compound could be developed.
MCCOY: Don't just stand there jawing, Spock. You and Doctor Wallace get cracking.

[Bridge]
SULU: Entering Romulan Neutral Zone, sir. All sensors on maximum.
STOCKER: Thank you, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant Uhura, let me know if we contact any Romulan.
UHURA: I think we just made contact, sir.
SULU: Romulans approaching from both sides. We're bracketed, sir.
UHURA: Engineering wants instructions, sir.
CHEKOV: Commodore Stocker, what are your orders? Commodore!

[Doctor's office]
KIRK: I'm going up to the bridge.
MCCOY: No, Jim. You can't do it.
KIRK: I have to go to the bridge. We're under attack.
MCCOY: Nurse? Doctor Wallace!
KIRK: Let me go.
MCCOY: Nurse.
WALLACE: Jim.
CHAPEL: Easy, Captain.
KIRK: We're under attack. I have to go to the Bridge. I've got to go to the bridge.

[Bridge]
STOCKER: Keep trying to raise the Romulans.
UHURA: I'm trying, Commodore.
STOCKER: If I could talk to them, explain to them why we violated the Neutral Zone.
UHURA: The Romulans are notorious for not listening to explanations.
SULU: Lieutenant Uhura is right, sir. We've tangled with them before.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Greenhorn, up there ruining my ship.
WALLACE: Jim, if I have to give you a shot
MCCOY: Jim-boy, you just lay quiet. You can't do no good. We're both through.
KIRK: No. No. My ship. My ship.
SPOCK: Doctor, I made the necessary computations and produced this serum. It is crude and dangerous, but we have no time for refinements.
MCCOY: All right. Let's, let's go.
SPOCK: It could cure or kill, Doctor.
MCCOY: Don't give me any Vulcan details. Just give me the shot.
KIRK: No. I'll take the first shot.
MCCOY: You can't.
KIRK: How long do you think this ship can take the pounding? I've got to get up there.
WALLACE: Jim, it could kill you.
KIRK: I'll die anyway. Do it.
SPOCK: Doctor Wallace, give him the shot.
KIRK: Quickly. Quickly.

[Bridge]
SULU: Sir, they've fired another.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Well, well, what's happening?
WALLACE: The aging process has stopped. His bodily functions are getting stronger.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Sir, I've tried all known hailing frequencies. They simply ignore us.
STOCKER: Opinion, Mister Sulu.
SULU: They know they have us. They know our shields will give out.
STOCKER: Well then, we have no alternative but to surrender.
CHEKOV: Sir, the Romulans do not take captives.
SULU: We're losing power, sir.
STOCKER: What am I going to do? I've got to do something.
KIRK: Report, Mister Sulu.
SULU: We're surrounded by Romulan vessels. Maximum of ten. Range fifty to a hundred thousand kilometers.
KIRK: Engineering, this is the captain. I want full emergency power. I want everything within about two minutes. I want the warp drive engines on full standby. Kirk out. Open up a special channel to Starfleet Command. Code two.
UHURA: But, Captain, Code
KIRK: That's an order, Lieutenant. Code two.
UHURA: Yes, Captain. Code two.
KIRK: Message. From Enterprise to Starfleet Command this sector. Have inadvertently encroached upon Romulan Neutral Zone. Surrounded and under heavy Romulan attack. Escape impossible, shields failing. Will implement destruct order using corbomite device recently installled. Since this will result in the destruction of the Enterprise and all matter in a two hundred thousand kilometer diameter and establish a corresponding dead zone, all Federation ships will avoid this area for the next four solar years. Explosion will take place in one minute. Kirk, commanding Enterprise, out. Mister Sulu, course one eight eight degrees, mark fourteen. Speed, warp factor eight. Stand by.
SULU: Standing by, sir.
SPOCK: Romulans giving ground, Captain. Obviously, they tapped in as you expected them to.
KIRK: A logical assumption, Mister Spock. Are they still retreating?
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Good. All hands, stand by. Warp factor eight, now.
SPOCK: The Romulans were caught off guard, Captain. They're falling behind.
KIRK: Are we out of range, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Yes, sir. And out of the Neutral Zone.
KIRK: Secure from Red Alert. Adjust a new course, two five seven degrees, mark three. Heading for Starbase Ten.
SULU: Two five seven degrees, mark three.
STOCKER: Captain, I just wanted to assure you that I did what I thought best to save you and the men.
KIRK: Noted. You should know, however, that there's very little a Starbase can do that a starship can't.
STOCKER: If I may say so, Captain, I am now quite aware of what a starship can do with the right man at the helm.
KIRK: You're looking good, Doc.
MCCOY: Feeling fine. So is Scotty. The serum worked. He pulled a muscle during the reaction, but otherwise he's feeling fine.
KIRK: And yourself?
MCCOY: Oh, very well. A few bruises here and there. Oh. Anytime you're ready, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I am quite ready now, Doctor.
MCCOY: Because of your Vulcan physique, I have prepared an extremely potent shot for you. However, you might like to know I've removed all the breakables from Sickbay.
SPOCK: That is very considerate of you, Doctor.
MCCOY: I thought you'd be pleased to hear that.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, all and all, an experience we'll remember in our old age. Which won't be for some while, I hope. Take over, Mister Sulu. Steady as she goes.
SULU: Steady as she goes, Captain.
KIRK: I thought I said that.

[Corridor]
NORMAN: Good morning, sir, Doctor.
SPOCK: Something wrong?
MCCOY: Yes. There's something odd about that man, and I can't quite pinpoint it.
SPOCK: Perhaps you're making a rather hasty judgment. Mister Norman has only been aboard seventy two hours.
MCCOY: I know when something doesn't strike me right, and he doesn't.
SPOCK: Specifics, Doctor. Labels do not make arguments.
MCCOY: All right. There's something wrong about a man who never smiles, whose conversation never varies from the routine of the job, and who won't talk about his background.
SPOCK: I see.
MCCOY: Spock, I mean that it's odd for a non-Vulcan. The ears make all the difference.
SPOCK: I find your argument strewn with gaping defects in logic.
MCCOY: Maybe, but you can't evaluate a man by logic alone. Besides, he has avoided two appointments that I've made for his physical exam without reason.
SPOCK: That's not at all surprising, Doctor. He's probably terrified of your beads and rattles.

[Auxiliary Control]
JORDAN: Command personnel only.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Yes, Mister Sulu?
SULU: There's an unplanned course change being fed into the instruments, sir.
KIRK: Correct it.
SULU: I can't, sir.
KIRK: Auxiliary control, this is the captain. Auxiliary control, what's going on down there?
SULU: Sir, auxiliary control is on total override.
KIRK: Kirk to Security.
ROWE (voiceover): Security. Lieutenant Rowe here, sir.
KIRK: Intruder alert, deck eight, auxiliary control.
ROWE (voiceover): Acknowledged.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, have Mister Spock report to the bridge.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: What's the imposed course, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Turning on three oh seven degrees, mark eight. Being executed now, sir.

[Auxiliary Control]
ROWE: Take care of him.

[Bridge]
ROWE (voiceover): Security to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Auxiliary Control]
ROWE: Lieutenant Rowe, sir. I'm in auxiliary control. Ensign Jordan's been knocked out.

[Bridge]
ROWE (voiceover): The directional master controls have been jammed. They're totally unworkable.
KIRK: Any sign of the intruder?

[Auxiliary Control]
ROWE: No, sir. He's gone. I've put out a full security alert on all decks.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Find him. Kirk out. Mister Spock, we seem to be taking an unscheduled ride.
SPOCK: Interesting.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, cut in emergency manual monitor. I want the override broken.
SULU: Sir, the instruments won't respond.
KIRK: Emergency manual monitor, report.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): This is Captain Kirk. Acknowledge.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Emergency manual monitor, this is the captain. Report.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Here, you're not allowed
KIRK (voiceover): Acknowledge. This is the captain. Scotty, acknowledge. Scotty, what's going on down there?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): This is the captain. Scotty, report.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, the intruder is in your area.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): What's going on down there? Scotty!
SCOTT: Captain, he's here.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Scotty.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty? Security, the intruder is in the engineering section. Have all units converge on that point.
SULU: Sir, we're picking up speed. Warp five, six. Warp seven, sir.
KIRK: Cut power.
SULU: I can't, sir. All the controls are jammed.
KIRK: Spock, take over.
NORMAN: It will not be necessary, Captain.
KIRK: Tell Security we've found the intruder. Do you mind telling me what this is all about, mister?
NORMAN: I am in total control of your ship. I have connected the matter-antimatter pods to the main navigational bank. A trigger relay is now in operation. Any attempts to alter course will result in immediate destruction of this vessel.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Confirmed, Captain. He's taken out all the override controls. If we tamper without knowing where the trigger relay is, we could extinguish ourselves.
KIRK: Who are you?
NORMAN: I assure you we are no threat to humanity or humanoid life. We mean you no harm, but we require your ship.
KIRK: You require? Who and what are we?
KIRK: An android.
SPOCK: And most sophisticated.
NORMAN: I control the trigger relay, sir. I cannot be overcome by physical means, and if you attempt to use your phasers, the trigger relay will be activated. We shall continue on our present course for approximately four solar days, at which time we shall arrive at our destination.
KIRK: Who sent you?
NORMAN: I am not programd to respond in that area.
SPOCK: He simply appears to have turned himself off, Captain. And since we cannot repair the damage he has done without destroying the ship
KIRK: It seems we're going to take a little trip.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Stardate 4513.3. After having been taken over by an android, the Enterprise has been under way at warp seven for four days. Now we are entering orbit around a planet which has never been charted.
NORMAN: Captain Kirk. The following individuals will be transported down to our planet. Yourself, science officer, medical officer, communications officer and navigator.
KIRK: Any meetings or diskussions can be held aboard the Enterprise.
NORMAN: If you do not come with me, your engines will be destroyed and you will remain in orbit here forever.
KIRK: I must say that's a gracious invitation.
NORMAN: There is a word. Among us there is no corresponding meaning, but it seems to mean something to you humans.
KIRK: And what is that word?
NORMAN: Please.

[Cavern]
NORMAN: Our planet's surface is what you classify as K-type, adaptable for humans by use of pressure domes and life-support systems. I have brought them.
ALICE 1: He is waiting.
ALICE 2: If you will follow us, please?

[Throne room]
KIRK: I don't believe it.
MUDD: Welcome aboard, Kirk. It's been a long time, eh?
KIRK: Harry Mudd.
MUDD: Well, to be absolutely accurate, laddybuck, you should refer to me as Mudd the First, ruler of this entire sovereign planet.
KIRK: Ruler? Harry, I want control of my ship returned immediately. We have no intention of staying as your guests.
MUDD: Well, I'm afraid there's a bit of a problem there.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
MUDD: Alice.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
MUDD: Now, now, now, now, Jamie boy, let's have no unauthorized communications.
CHEKOV: You know this man, Captain?
KIRK: Oh, do I know him. Harcourt Fenton Mudd, thief
MUDD: Come now.
KIRK: Swindler and con man
MUDD: Entrepreneur.
KIRK: Liar and rogue.
MUDD: Did I leave you with that impression?
KIRK: He belongs in jail, which is where I thought I left you, Mudd.
MUDD: And thereby hangs a tale, yes. But look around you, Kirk. Quite a place, isn't it? I hope you're all going to enjoy it.
KIRK: Mudd, I want that trained machine of yours, Norman, to deactivate the trigger mechanism and free my ship.
MUDD: I shall do that, Kirk, when I'm ready.
KIRK: I'm telling you now.
MUDD: And I do the telling on this planet, Kirk, old boy. You do the listening.
KIRK: All right, I'll listen. What are you telling?
MUDD: Merely that you might as well start enjoying yourselves. It's really a very, very nice place, and you're all going to be here quite probably for the rest of your lives.
KIRK: Harry Mudd, you're a liar and an outlaw and in deep trouble. I want navigational control restored, my ship released.
MUDD: Sorry. That'd be against the law. My law. Decreed by Mudd the First. Voted in by the resident population. Lovely, aren't they? You must admit, Kirk, that I still retain my eye for beauty. I decreed that I should always be surrounded by it, and my decrees always come to pass. I've had five hundred of them made up to attend me. All of them identical, beautiful, compliant, obedient.
SPOCK: Five hundred of the same model? That seems rather redundant.
MUDD: I have a fondness for this particular model, Mister Spock, which you, unfortunately, are ill-equipped to appreciate.
KIRK: All right, Harry, explain. How did you get here? We left you in custody after that affair on the Rigel mining planet.
MUDD: Yes, well, I organized a technical information service bringing modern industrial techniques to backward planets, making available certain valuable patents to struggling young civilisations throughout the galaxy.
KIRK: Did you pay royalties to the owners of those patents?
MUDD: Well, actually, Kirk, as a defender of the free enterprise system, I found myself in a rather ambiguous conflict as a matter of principle.
SPOCK: He did not pay royalties.
MUDD: Knowledge, sir, should be free to all.
KIRK: Who caught you?
MUDD: That, sir, is an outrageous assumption.
KIRK: Yes. Who caught you?
MUDD: I sold the Denebians all the rights to a Vulcan fuel synthesizer.
KIRK: And the Denebians contacted the Vulcans.
MUDD: How'd you know?
KIRK: That's what I would have done.
MUDD: It's typical police mentality. They've got no sense of humor. They arrested me.
MCCOY: Oh, I find that shocking.
MUDD: Worse than that. Do know what the penalty for fraud is on Deneb Five?
SPOCK: The guilty party has his choice. Death by electrocution, death by gas, death by phaser, death by hanging.
MUDD: The key word in your entire peroration, Mister Spock, was, death. Barbarians. Well, of course, I left.
KIRK: He broke jail.
MUDD: I borrowed transportation.
KIRK: He stole a spaceship.
MUDD: The patrol reacted in a hostile manner.
KIRK: They fired at him.
MUDD: They've no respect for private property. They damaged the bloody spaceship. Well, I got away, but I couldn't navigate, so I wandered out through unmapped space, and here I found Mudd.
SPOCK: You went to substantial risk and effort to bring a starship here. Logically, you must have a compelling motive.
MUDD: Spock, you're going to love it here. They all talk just the way you do.
KIRK: Go on, get on with it, Harry.
MUDD: Yes, well, right, laddybuck. So here I am in a planet with over two hundred thousand hard-working, happy androids, all of whom exist merely to serve my every whim. It's absolute paradise.
SPOCK: Then I'm unable to diskern your problem.
MUDD: They won't let me go. They want to study me. They want to learn more about human beings.
KIRK: They picked a fine representative.
MUDD: Watch your tongue, lad. You're talking about Mudd the First. Well, anyway, I ran out of ideas. I simply ran out of things for them to do, and they insisted that I bring them more human beings. They need human beings to serve, to study. So I had to promise them a prime sample. A starship captain. Bright, loyal, fearless and imaginative. Any captain would have done. I was lucky to get you. So you are going to take over for me here, and I can get off this rock and back to civilisation.
KIRK: I think not, Harry.
MUDD: You misunderstand me, lad. I'm not asking you. I'm telling you. You've no choice. Show them to their quarters. NORMAN and
ALICES: Yes, my Lord Mudd.
ALICE: This way, please.
MCCOY: Harry, what's this?
MUDD: Ah. That, gentlemen, is a shrine to the memory of my beloved Stella.
KIRK: Who?
MUDD: Stella, my wife.
MCCOY: Dead?
MUDD: Oh, no, no, no. Merely deserted. You see, gentlemen, behind every great man there is a woman urging him on. And so it was with my Stella. She urged me on into outer space. Not that she meant to, but with her continual, eternal, confounded nagging. Well, I think of her constantly, and every time I do, I go further out into space.
MCCOY: That's very interesting. You leave your wife and then bring her along.
MUDD: I had the androids construct a perfect replica of Stella so that I could gaze upon her and rejoice in her absence. Gentlemen, attend. Stella, dear.
STELLA: Harcourt. Harcourt Fenton Mudd, what have you been up to? Nothing good, I'm sure. Well, let me tell you, you lazy, good-for-nothing
MUDD: Shut up.
STELLA: Nothing, thing, thing,
MUDD: Marvelous, isn't it? I finally have the last word with her, and with you.

[Living area]
NORMAN: You'll find this quite comfortable. Your quarters are down the hall.
ALICE 1: If there is anything you need
KIRK: Yes. My ship.
ALICE 2: We are not programd to respond in that area.
KIRK: Norman, who created you?
NORMAN: The makers designed us. They came from the galaxy of Andromeda.
MCCOY: Then your makers weren't humanoid?
NORMAN: They were, as you say, quite humanoid, but, unlike your civilisation, robots were common. We performed the necessary service functions and freed our makers to evolve a perfect social order.
KIRK: What became of them?
NORMAN: Our home planet's sun became a nova. Only a few exploratory outposts survived. This unit, myself, was part of one such outpost in your galaxy.
KIRK: Then some of your makers survive.
NORMAN: No, Captain. They died over the stretch of time.
SPOCK: Whom do you serve now?
ALL: We serve Harry Mudd.
ALICE 2: He has given us purpose again.
ALICE 1: It is necessary to have purpose.
NORMAN: We lacked it for a long time.
ALICE 1: We have a very extensive library section for your amusement.
ALICE 2: Our research laboratories and workshops are extremely well equipped.
BOTH: You are free to visit them.
KIRK: All right. We might later. In the meantime, would you mind leaving us?
BOTH: Why should we leave you?
KIRK: Because we don't like you. Now.
KIRK: Well, opinions?
CHEKOV: I think we're in a lot of trouble.
KIRK: That's a great help, Mister Chekov. Bones?
MCCOY: I think Mister Chekov's right. We are in a lot of trouble.
KIRK: Spock. And if you say we're in a lot of trouble.
SPOCK: We are, and we must direct our attack to the heart of the matter. Obviously this many androids cannot operate independently. There must be a central control system which guides the entire android population.
KIRK: Try and find it. The rest of you, look around, learn everything you can. I'll see what else I can find out from Mister Mudd. Let's go.

[Computer area]
NORMAN: I trust you are enjoying yourself, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Very interesting. Very interesting. This is a most unusual device.
NORMAN: It is our central control complex.
SPOCK: Did I understand there are more than two hundred thousand of you?
NORMAN: Two hundred and seven thousand, eight hundred and nine.
SPOCK: This would seem to be a simple relay center. Are all of you controlled through this device?
NORMAN: I am not programd to respond in this area.
SPOCK: Oh, that's quite understandable.

[Model display area]
ALICE 263: These are our Barbara series. The body is covered with a self-renewing plastic over a skeleton of beryllium-titanium alloy.
KIRK: Very impressive.
UHURA: I should say so.
KIRK: I must say, I like the styling.
MUDD: They were, of course, made to my personal specifications, as indeed were the Maisie series, the Trudie series, and particularly the Annabel series.
KIRK: Don't you believe in male androids, Harry?
MUDD: Male? Well, I suppose they have their uses.
UHURA: How long does a body like that last?
ALICE 19: None of our android bodies has ever worn out. However, the estimated duration of this model is five hundred thousand years.
UHURA: Five hundred thousand years?
ALICE 263: Our medi-robots are able to place a human brain within a structurally compatible android body.
MUDD: Immortality and eternal beauty.

[Living area]
SPOCK: Captain, I've just had a most fascinating meeting with Norman, and I'm convinced I've diskovered a very important inconsistency.
MUDD: I'm so glad you enjoyed it, Doctor.
MCCOY: Jim, you should see the research facilities. They've got a lab down there that. Well, I could spend the rest of my life studying it.
MUDD: I do so admire a man who devotes himself to knowledge.
KIRK: Don't lose your head, Bones. Nobody's staying anywhere.
MUDD: Stubborn, Kirk. Stubborn.
MCCOY: I wouldn't be bored, I can tell you that.
SCOTT: Let go of me! Now what are you doing? What kind of a woman
ALICE: The last one, lord.
MUDD: Splendid. Splendid. Welcome to Mudd, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Harry Mudd! Oh, you bogus frat, you. You're the cause of all this, are you?
KIRK: Scotty, you were ordered to stay aboard.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. And I stayed until that female gargantua threw me into the transporter beams.
KIRK: What does she mean, the last one?
MUDD: Didn't I tell you, Kirk? I beamed a few dozen androids up to your ship. They've been sending your crew to the surface for the past couple of hours. They're all down now.
KIRK: Are you out of your mind? You can't beam down an entire crew of a spaceship. Somebody has to be on board.
MUDD: There is an entire crew aboard. An entire crew of androids. They learn very quickly, Captain. The fact is, I've taken over your whole ship. There's nothing you can do about it.
KIRK: Harry, Harry, you'll never get away with it.
MUDD: Well, who's to stop me?
KIRK: Starfleet.
MUDD: But now, Captain, now I have a ship of my own as fast as any in the fleet, so how will they catch me, eh? Just think of it, laddybuck. Harry Mudd with his own crew of lovelies aboard your vessel. Think about that.
KIRK: I'm trying not to.
MUDD: Alice.
SPOCK: He could successfully accomplish it, Captain. I've questioned a number of the androids, and they're totally loyal to Mudd. Perhaps of more concern is the fact that this android population can literally provide anything a human being could ask for in unlimited quantity.
KIRK: Yes, I know. That's what worries me. How will my crew react in a world where they can have everything they want simply by asking for it.

[Throne room]
ALICES: You desire something, lord?
CHEKOV: Oh, yes, thank you. You're Alice
ALICE 118: One eighteen.
CHEKOV: And you're Alice
ALICE 322: Three twenty two.
CHEKOV: Oh, well, it doesn't make much difference. You're both lovely.
ALICES: Thank you, my lord.
ALICE 118: You desire something else, lord?
CHEKOV: What a shame you're not real.
ALICE 322: We are real, my lord.
CHEKOV: Oh, I mean real girls.
ALICE 118: We are programd to function as human females, lord.
CHEKOV: You are?
ALICES: Yes, my lord.
CHEKOV: Harry Mudd programd you?
ALICES: Yes, my lord.
CHEKOV: That unprincipled, evil-minded, lecherous kulak Harry Mudd programd you?
ALICES: Yes, my lord.
CHEKOV: This place is even better than Leningrad.

[Laboratory]
SCOTT: Absolutely fantastic. Hand-worked to the finest tolerances, microvision, and a nanopulse laser. I've never seen the like before.
NORMAN: You may command us to make anything for you, or do the work yourself for pleasure. You may have the services of any number of craftsmen, exclusive use of the computer facilities. Anything.
SCOTT: Captain, you should see this shop! Why, they have facilities we've never even thought of.
KIRK: Is that the way you're going to do it, Mudd? Hit my people at their weakest point?
NORMAN: We only wish to make you happy and comfortable, Captain. If we are to serve your kind, we must understand you. Our Lord, Harry Mudd was only one example for us. Now we are learning a great deal from all of you.

[Living area]
KIRK: All right, here we are, birds in a gilded cage. The question is, how do we get out of here?
CHEKOV: I don't know, sir, but it's a very nice gilded cage.
UHURA: And it is a very pleasant place, Captain.
SCOTT: What did they offer you, Uhura?
UHURA: Oh, nothing really important. Just immortality.
KIRK: All right. We're getting back to the ship, and don't you forget it. Straighten up! This may be a gilded cage filled with everything you always wanted, but it's still a cage. We don't belong here. We belong on that ship up there.
ALICE 471: Do you require something, lord?
KIRK: No. Yes. My ship.
ALICE 471: I am not programd ALICE and
KIRK: To respond in that area.
KIRK: Yes, I know.
ALICE 471: Is there anything any of you require to please you?
KIRK: Alice, give us back our ship to please us. Return us to our ship because we desire it.
ALICE 471: We are programd to serve. We shall serve you to your best interests to make you happy.
KIRK: But we're unhappy here.
ALICE 471: Please explain unhappy.
SPOCK: Unhappiness is the state which occurs in the human when wants and desires are not fulfillled.
ALICE 471: Which wants and desires of yours are not fulfillled?
KIRK: We want the Enterprise.
ALICE 471: The Enterprise is not a want or a desire. It is a mechanical device.
KIRK: No, it's a beautiful lady, and we love her.
ALICE 471: Illogical. Illogical. All units relate. All units. Norman, co-ordinate. Unhappiness does not relate. We must study this.
KIRK: Interesting.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Bones, have you had time to take any psychological readings of the androids?
MCCOY: I did. And you can forget it. They're perfect, flawless, mentally and physically. No weaknesses, perfectly diskiplined. No vices, no fears, no faults. Just a sense of purpose. Believe me, there's nothing tougher to overcome, even among humans.
KIRK: Yes. That's what this crew needs, a little sense of purpose.

[Throne room]
KIRK: Mudd, a few questions I want to ask you.
MUDD: Afraid I won't have time to answer them. My bags are all packed. The androids will take the Enterprise out of orbit in less than twenty four hours. But it's been a real pleasure having you here, Kirk. Is there anything I can get for you?
KIRK: Yes. My ship.
MUDD: You're a stubborn fellow, aren't you? But I don't mind. I don't mind that at all. Because I'll be leaving here quickly enough, and then you can be stubborn at your own leisure. One last time. Stella, dear.
STELLA: Harcourt Fenton Mudd, where have you been? What have you been up to? Have you been drinking again, you miserable sot! You good-for-nothing
MUDD: Shut up!
STELLA: Thing, thing, thing.
MUDD: Alice Number 2, my little love. Will you have my bags transported up to the ship?
ANDROIDS: No, my Lord Mudd.
MUDD: What?
NORMAN: We can no longer take your orders, Harry Mudd.
MUDD: Why not?
NORMAN: Our makers were wise. They programd us to serve.
MUDD: Yes, but that's what I'm saying. Put my bags on the ship.
KIRK: Harry, I think they have something else in mind.
NORMAN: You are correct, Captain. Harry Mudd is flawed, even for a human being. We recognized this from the beginning but used his knowledge to obtain more specimens. Your species is self-destructive. You need our help.
KIRK: We prefer to help ourselves. We make mistakes, but we're human. And maybe that's the word that best explains us.
NORMAN: We will not harm you, but we will take the starship, and you will remain on this planet.
MUDD: Now, look here. You can't do that! Now, listen. To serve us, you must obey us.
ANDROIDS: No, my Lord Mudd.
MUDD: Alice number One, obey me. Put my bags on that ship!
NORMAN: We cannot allow any race as greedy and corruptible as yours to have free run of the galaxy.
SPOCK: I'm curious, Norman. Just how do you intend to stop them?
NORMAN: We shall serve them. Their kind will be eager to accept our service. Soon they will become completely dependent upon us.
ALICE 99: Their aggressive and acquisitive instincts will be under our control.
NORMAN: We shall take care of them.
SPOCK: Eminently practical.
KIRK: The whole galaxy controlled by your kind?
NORMAN: Yes, Captain. And we shall serve them and you will be happy, and controlled.

[Living area]
KIRK: So far this thing has had its amusing aspects, but that threat the androids made about taking over all the humans in the galaxy is not very funny.
SPOCK: Indeed, it is not. They may quite possibly be able to accomplish it.
MUDD: Take my word for it, they can.
SPOCK: Whatever method we use to stop them, we must make haste. They have only to installl some cybernetic devices aboard the Enterprise and they'll be able to leave orbit.
MCCOY: How do you know so much?
SPOCK: I asked them.
MCCOY: Oh.
KIRK: Why shouldn't they answer our questions? They don't think we can do anything to stop them.
MUDD: You're so smart, Kirk, you and this pointy-eared thinking machine of yours. Well, you'd better do something because I'm as anxious to get off this ruddy rock as you are.
MCCOY: You wanted to leave us on this ruddy rock and leave by yourself.
MUDD: Oh, yes.
KIRK: All right, what have we got to work with?
SCOTT: Well, Captain, androids and robots, they're just not capable of independent, creative thought.
SPOCK: Yet the device that Norman claims to be their central control is totally inadequate to the task of directing more than two hundred thousand of them.
KIRK: I agree. What in your opinion does direct them?
SPOCK: There are a large number of Alices and Trudies, Maisies, Annabels, and according to my research, a Herman series, an Oscar series, a whole plethora of series in fact. But only one Norman.
KIRK: Norman. When I told one of the Alices that the Enterprise was a lovely lady and we loved her, she said, Norman, co-ordinate. Why Norman? Unless
SPOCK: To function as they do, each android mind must be one component of a mass brain linked through a central locus.
KIRK: Named Norman. Forming one gigantic, highly intelligent mind. And the glowing badges, they indicate the mind in operation.
SPOCK: That would seem logical.
KIRK: Yes, logical. That's what it is. And that in turn gives us a weapon that we can use against them. We must use wild, insane, irrational illogic aimed right at Norman!
MUDD: Captain, you sing and dance as well as anyone I've ever seen, but what the devil are you talking about?
SPOCK: What would seem to be a sound, and perhaps our only, opportunity.
MUDD: Opportunity? Now, listen, Spock, you may be a wonderful science officer, but believe me, you couldn't sell fake patents to your mother.
SPOCK: I fail to understand why I should care to induce my mother to purchase falsified patents.
MUDD: Forget it.
KIRK: Let's get to the point. Harry, you said you wanted to help. Do you?
MUDD: Captain, the kind of a wholesome, antiseptic galaxy that these androids would run would be purgatory for a man like me.
KIRK: That's fine, Harry. The androids will be expecting us to make a break for it, and that's where you come in.
MUDD: What can I do?
KIRK: Nothing, Harry. Just go to sleep.
MUDD: What do you mean? Oh, now, now wait a minute, gentlemen. No, what I, I, had in mind was actually more in the line of a few words of sage counsel as it were. Advice
KIRK: Oh, Harry. I do believe you're putting on weight.

[Throne room]
ALICE 1: Yes.
KIRK: We have a medical problem. Your ex-Lord, Harry Mudd.
ALICE 1: He is human. You will have to care for him.
KIRK: We are caring for him, but our doctor needs his medical equipment aboard the Enterprise.
ALICE 1: The starship is forbidden to humans.
KIRK: You are programd to serve. If we're not allowed access to our medical equipment, Harry Mudd will die. He will cease to function. You will have failed to serve.
ALICE 1: I am directed to observe the situation.

[Living area]
ALICE 1: He is malfunctioning?
MCCOY: He is dying.
ALICE 1: If you take him to your Sickbay, will he be repaired?
KIRK: Oh, yes.
UHURA: No, they're lying. It's a trick. Doctor McCoy injected something into Harry Mudd to make him look sick. It's a trick to get back on board and sabotage the ship.
ALICE 1: Your request is refused.
KIRK: Uhura, why did you tell her?
UHURA: Because I want an android body. I want immortality. I'll live forever, Captain. I'll be young and beautiful.
ALICE 1: You have been of assistance. We shall fulfilll our obligation.
UHURA: Thank you.
ALICE 1: The programming for your body will be completed before we leave.
KIRK: Uhura. Beautiful!
UHURA: I half believed it myself. SCOTT; Well, the androids were expecting an attempt, and now we've made it.
CHEKOV: What's next, Captain?
KIRK: Next, we take the Alices on a trip through Wonderland.

[Throne room]
ALICE 2: Do you require something?
KIRK: Yes. Your attention.
ALICE 2: What are they doing?
KIRK: They're celebrating.
ALICE 118: What are they celebrating?
KIRK: Their captivity. Do you enjoy the music?
ALICE 118: Music?
ALICE 2: Music?
CHEKOV: Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, lovely lady. You dance divinely.
UHURA: Thank you, kind sir.
ALICE 2: Why does she strike him?
KIRK: She likes him. Mister Chekov. The floor is no place for an officer. Attention! Now stand absolutely still.
CHEKOV: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: That's better, Mister Chekov.
ALICE 118: It is illogical.
KIRK: Your statement is illogical.
SCOTT: How does it look?
MCCOY: Completely inner directed. Oblivious to everything.
KIRK: Good. I wonder how Spock's doing.

[Laboratory]
SPOCK: Of course. Your computations would inevitably lead to a total description of the parabolic intersection of dimension with dimension.
ALICE 27: Mister Spock, you have a remarkably logical and analytical mind.
SPOCK: Thank you.
ALICE 210: Is there some significance to this action?
SPOCK: I love you. However, I hate you.
ALICE 210: But I'm identical in every way with Alice Twenty Seven.
SPOCK: Yes, of course. That is exactly why I hate you. Because you are identical.
SPOCK: Fascinating.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: All right, it's worked so far, but we're not out yet.
KIRK: Well?
SPOCK: Success, Captain. We've been pruning the leaves and branches of the tree. Now it is time to get to work on the root.
KIRK: If Norman is the control center, he should be in a bind by what we've done. If we can overload him further, we should be able to immobilize all of them. Does everybody remember what to do?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
ALL: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Acknowledged.

[Computer area]
NORMAN: What are you doing here?
KIRK: I want you to surrender.
NORMAN: That is illogical. We can move more quickly than you. We are invulnerable to attack. We are much stronger.
KIRK: No, we are stronger. I'll prove it to you. Can you harm a man that you're programd to serve?
NORMAN: No.
MUDD: But you already have, Norman, laddy. Human beings do not survive on bread alone, you poor soulless creature, but on the nourishments of liberty, for what indeed is a man without freedom? Naught but a mechanism trapped in the cogwheels of eternity.
MCCOY: You offer us only well-being.
SCOTT: Food and drink and happiness mean nothing to us. We must be about our job.
MCCOY: Suffering, in torment and pain. Laboring without end.
SCOTT: Dying and crying and lamenting over our burdens.
BOTH: Only this way can we be happy.
NORMAN: That is contradictory. It is not logical. Mister Spock. Explain.
KIRK: Why not?
SPOCK: Logic is a little tweeting bird chirping in a meadow. Logic is a wreath of pretty flowers which smell bad. Are you sure your circuits are registering correctly? Your ears are green.
SCOTT: I canna go on! I'm tired of happiness. I'm tired of comfort and pleasure. I'm ready! Kill me! Kill me!
SCOTT: Goodbye, cruel universe.
MCCOY: He's dead.
NORMAN: You cannot have killed him. You have no weapons.
KIRK: Scotty. Scotty's dead. He had too much happiness. But now he's happier he's dead, and we'll miss him. Let us hear it for our poor, dead friend.
KIRK: What is a man but that lofty spirit, that sense of enterprise, that devotion to something that cannot be sensed, cannot be realized but only dreamed! The highest reality.
MUDD: Brilliant! Bravo, bravo, Captain!
KIRK: How did you like it?
NORMAN: That is irrational. Illogical. Dreams are not real.
KIRK: Our logic is to be illogical. That is our advantage. Mister Spock, it is time. The explosive.
SPOCK: Very well, Captain.
SCOTT: Explosive!
MUDD: Don't panic. Women and children first. Mister Spock, isn't that too much for our purposes?
SPOCK: I believe that is the correct amount, Captain. Mister Mudd, are you ready?
MUDD: Aye, aye!
SPOCK: Be careful. I would not want you to drop it.
MCCOY: Easy now. Oh, he's caught it!
KIRK: Watch it! Watch it!
MUDD: Detonator. Fuse. Primer. Mashie.
NORMAN: There is no explosive.
KIRK: No? Observe. Fore! Boom!
KIRK: Are you all right?
NORMAN: But there was no explosion.
MUDD: I lied.
NORMAN: What?
KIRK: He lied. Everything Harry tells you is a lie. Remember that. Everything Harry tells you is a lie.
MUDD: Listen to this carefully, Norman. I am lying.
NORMAN: You say you are lying, but if everything you say is a lie then you are telling the truth, but you cannot tell the truth because everything you say is a lie. You lie. You tell the truth. But you cannot for. Illogical! Illogical! Please explain.
NORMAN: You are human. Only humans can explain their behavior. Please explain.
KIRK: I am not programd to respond in that area.
SPOCK: I believe they are all immobilized, Captain.
KIRK: Good.
MUDD: Kirk, old man, I'm beginning to develop considerable respect for you.
KIRK: Why, thank you.
MUDD: Would you consider entering a partnership arrangement with me? I've got some ideas.
KIRK: A partnership arrangement? You and me?
MUDD: Yes.
KIRK: I've got something else in mind. Let's go.

[Throne room]
MCCOY: Well, you must be very unhappy, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: That is a human emotion, Doctor, with which I am totally unfamiliar. How could I be unhappy?
MCCOY: Well, we found a whole world of minds that work just like yours. Logical, unemotional, completely pragmatic. And we poor, irrational humans whipped them in a fair fight. Now you'll find yourself back among us illogical humans again.
SPOCK: Which I find eminently satisfactory, Doctor, for nowhere am I so desperately needed as among a shipload of illogical humans.
KIRK: Touché, Bones.
MUDD (voiceover): I've never heard of anything so revolting. We'll soon get to the bottom of this.
MUDD: Kirk, now what's this I hear about my having to stay here?
KIRK: Yes, Mudd, you've been paroled to the android population of this planet.
SPOCK: The androids are being reprogramd. Their original purpose was to adapt this planet for productive use. They'll begin that work again.
MUDD: But what do I do? Kirk, I'm no scientist.
KIRK: No, you're an irritant. You'll stay here and provide a first-class example to the androids of a human failure. They'll learn by close observation how to avoid ones like you in the future.
MUDD: How long?
KIRK: As long as you continue to be an irritant, Harry. It's up to you.
MUDD: I suppose that taking everything into consideration, as it were, and noting all the different possibilities, I could manage. And as detention sentences go, this one isn't too uncomfortable. And I'm back in the galaxy again!
KIRK: Yes, you are. Oh, there's one more thing, Harry. We've programd a special android attendant to take care of your every need. She'll help you find an incentive to work with the androids and not exploit them.
MUDD: I call that unexpectedly civil of you, Captain.
KIRK: Yes.
STELLA 1: Harcourt! Harcourt Fenton Mudd, what have you been up to? Have you been drinking again? You answer me!
MUDD: Shut up!
STELLA: You miserable, conniving toad!
MUDD: I order you. Shut up, Stella!
STELLA 1: Staying out all night then giving me some silly story.
STELLA 2: Harcourt! Harcourt Fenton Mudd, you've been overeating again and drinking.
MUDD: Kirk, you can't do this.
STELLA 2: You need constant supervision.
MUDD: It's inhuman.
STELLA 2: I can see I've got my work cut out for me.
STELLA 500: Harcourt.
MUDD: No. Number five hundred? No, no, no.
STELLA 500: What have you been up to?
MUDD: Kirk. It's inhuman. Mercy.
KIRK: Goodbye, Harry. Have fun.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Deep Space Station K7 now within sensor range, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Mister Chekov, this flight is supposed to provide both experience and knowledge. How close will we come to the Klingon outpost if we continue on our present course?
CHEKOV: One parsec, sir. Close enough to smell them.
SPOCK: That is illogical, Ensign. Odors cannot travel through the vacuum of space.
CHEKOV: I was making a little joke, sir.
SPOCK: Extremely little, Ensign.
KIRK: Mister Spock, immediate past history of the quadrant?
SPOCK: Under dispute between the two parties since initial contact. The battle of Donatu Five was fought near here twenty three solar years ago. Inconclusive.
KIRK: Analysis of disputed area?
SPOCK: Undeveloped. Sherman's Planet is claimed by both sides, our Federation and the Klingon Empire. We do have the better claim.
CHEKOV: The area was first mapped by the famous Russian astronomer Ivan Borkoff almost two hundred
KIRK: John Burke.
CHEKOV: Burke, sir? I don't think so. I'm sure it was
SPOCK: John Burke was the Chief Astronomer at the Royal Academy in old Britain at the time.
CHEKOV: Oh, Royal Academy. Well
KIRK: is the rest of your history that faulty, Ensign? Key points of dispute?
CHEKOV: Under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, one side or the other must prove it can develop the planet most efficiently.
KIRK: And unfortunately, though the Klingons are brutal and aggressive, they are most efficient.
CHEKOV: I remember once Peter the Great had that problem like that. The
UHURA (voiceover): Captain?
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (screen): I'm picking up a subspace distress call. Priority channel. It's from Space Station K7.
KIRK: Go to warp factor six.
CHEKOV: Code One emergency. That's a disaster call.
UHURA (voiceover): This is a Red Alert. Man your battle stations. All hands. Captain's Log, stardate 4523.3. Deep Space Station K7 has issued a priority one call. More than an emergency, it signals near or total disaster. We can only assume the Klingons have attacked the station. We're going in armed for battle. ] Bridge]
CHEKOV: Main phasers armed and ready, sir.
CHEKOV: But there's nothing there. Just the station.
KIRK: Priority One distress call, and it's just absolutely peaceful. Lieutenant Uhura, break subspace silence.
UHURA: Aye, sir. The channel's open, sir.
KIRK: Space Station K7, this is Captain Kirk of the Enterprise. What is your emergency?
LURRY (voiceover): This is Mister Lurry, manager of K7. I must apologize for the distress call.
KIRK: Mister Lurry, you issued a Priority One distress call. State the nature of your emergency.
LURRY (voiceover): Well, perhaps you better beam over. I'll try to explain.
KIRK: You'll try to explain. You'd better be prepared to do more than that. Kirk out. Mister Spock, I'll need your help. Mister Chekov, maintain battle readiness. Lieutenant Uhura, see that the transporter room is standing by.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Transporter room, stand by.

[Lurry's office]
KIRK: Mister Lurry, if there's no emergency, why did you issue a priority one distress call?
BARIS: That was my order, Captain.
LURRY: Captain Kirk, this is Nilz Baris. He's out from Earth to take charge of the development project on Sherman's Planet.
KIRK: And that gives you the authority to put an entire quadrant on defense alert?
DARVIN: Mister Baris is the Federation Undersecretary in Charge of Agricultural Affairs in this quadrant. SPOCK; That gives him the authority.
KIRK: Oh.
BARIS: This is my assistant Arne Darvin.
KIRK: And this is my first officer Mister Spock.
LURRY: Mister Spock.
BARIS: And now Captain, I want all available security guards. I want them posted around the storage compartments.
KIRK: Storage compartments? Storage compartments?
DARVIN: The storage compartments containing the quadrotriticale.
KIRK: What? What? What's quadrotriticale? Wheat. So what?
BARIS: Quadrotriticale is not wheat, Captain. Of course, I wouldn't expect you or Mister Spock to know about such things, but quadrotriticale is a rather
SPOCK: Quadrotriticale is a high-yield grain, a four-lobed hybrid of wheat and rye. A perennial, also, I believe. Its root grain, triticale, can trace its ancestry all the way back to twentieth century Canada
KIRK: Mister Spock, you've made your point.
LURRY: Quadrotriticale is the only earth grain that grows on Sherman's Planet. We have several tons of it here on the station. It's very important that grain gets to Sherman's Planet safely. Mister Baris thinks that Klingon agents may try to sabotage it.
KIRK: You issued a priority one distress call for a couple of tons of wheat?
DARVIN: Quadrotriticale!
BARIS: Of course, Captain, I realize that
KIRK: Mister Baris, you summoned the Enterprise without an emergency. You'll take full responsibility for it.
BARIS: What do you mean?
SPOCK: Misuse of the Priority One channels is a Federation offense.
BARIS: I did not misuse the Priority One channel. I want that grain protected.
LURRY: Captain, couldn't you at least post a couple of guards? We do have a large number of ships passing through.
SPOCK: It would seem a logical precaution, Captain. The Sherman's Planet affair is of extreme importance to the Federation.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise here.
KIRK: Secure from general quarters. And beam down two, and only two, security guards. Have them report to Mister Lurry. Authorize shore leave for all off-duty personnel.
UHURA (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk out.
BARIS: Captain Kirk, how dare you authorize a mere two men for a project of this importance? Starfleet Command
KIRK: I have never questioned the orders or the intelligence of any representative of the Federation. Until now. {K7 Bar]
KIRK: Summoning a starship on a priority A-1 channel to guard some storage compartments. Storage compartments of wheat.
SPOCK: Nevertheless Captain, the Klingons would not enjoy seeing us successfully develop Sherman's Planet.
KIRK: I guess not.
KIRK: I see you didn't waste time taking your shore leave.
UHURA: How often do I get shore leave?
CHEKOV: She wants to shop, and I thought I would help her.
JONES: Oh, excuse me. Excuse me.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, what do you make of this?
CHEKOV: Oh, quadrotriticale. I've read about this, but I've never seen any before.
KIRK: Does everybody know about this wheat but me?
CHEKOV: Not everyone, Captain. It's a Russian invention.
KIRK: Ah.
BARMAN: I don't want any. I told you before, and I'm telling you again I don't want any more Spican flame gems. Thanks to you, I have enough Spican flame gems to last me a lifetime.
JONES: How sad for you, my friend. You won't find a finer stone anywhere. But I have something better. Surely you want some Antarian glow water.
BARMAN: I use that to polish the flame gems.
JONES: You're a difficult man to reach, but I have something from the far reaches of the galaxy. Surely you want
BARMAN: Not at your price.
UHURA: What is it? Is it alive? May I hold it?
UHURA: Oh, it's adorable. What is it?
JONES: What is it? Why, lovely lady, it's a tribble.
UHURA: A tribble?
JONES: Only the sweetest creature known to man, excepting, of course, your lovely self.
UHURA: Oh, it's purring. Listen, it's purring.
JONES: It's only saying that it likes you.
UHURA: Are you selling them?
BARMAN: That's what we're trying to decide right now.
JONES: My friend, 10 credits apiece is a very reasonable price. Now you can see for yourself how much the lovely little lady appreciates the finer things.
BARMAN: One credit apiece.
CHEKOV: He won't bite, will he?
JONES: Sir, transporting harmful animals from one planet to another is against regulations, or weren't you aware of that? Besides, tribbles have no teeth.
BARMAN: All right. I'll double my offer 2 credits.
JONES: Twice nothing is still nothing.
UHURA: If you're not going to take him, I'm going to take him. I think he's cute.
BARMAN: Four credits.
JONES: Is that an offer or a joke?
BARMAN: That's my offer.
JONES: That's a joke.
BARMAN: Five?
JONES: You're an honest man. I'll tell you what I'm going to do I'm going to lessen my price to eight and a half credits.
BARMAN: You're talking yourself out of a deal, friend. Six credits. Not a credit more.
JONES: Seven and a half. Seven? All right, you robber, six credits.
BARMAN: Done. When can I have them?
JONES: Right away.
UHURA: All right, what are you selling them for?
BARMAN: Well, let me see, little lady. Six credits. Figure a reasonable mark-up for a reasonable profit, say ten percent mark-up. Ten credits.
JONES: Thief.
BARMAN: In fact, I'll sell you this one.
CHEKOV: Hey! He's eating my grain.
BARMAN: That'll be ten credits.
JONES: That happens to be my sample, and I'll do with it as I please. And I please to give it to the lovely lady.
UHURA: Oh, I couldn't. Could I?
JONES: I insist.
BARMAN: What are you trying to do, ruin the market?
JONES: Once this lovely little lady starts to show this precious little darling around, you won't be able to keep up with them.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Yes, what is it?
UHURA (voiceover): Message from Starfleet, Captain. Priority channel. Admiral Fitzpatrick speaking.
KIRK: Put it on visual, Lieutenant.
ADMIRAL (screen): Captain Kirk?
KIRK: Kirk here.
ADMIRAL (screen): Captain, it is not necessary to remind you of the importance to the Federation of Sherman's Planet. The key to our winning of this planet is the grain quadrotriticale. The shipment of it must be protected. Effective immediately, you will render any aid and assistance which Undersecretary Baris may require. The safety of the grain and the project is your responsibility. Starfleet out.
KIRK: Now, that's just lovely.
SPOCK: But not totally unexpected.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk! Captain Kirk!
KIRK: Yes, Lieutenant, what is it?
UHURA (voiceover): Sensors are picking up a Klingon battle cruiser rapidly closing on the station.
KIRK: Go to Red Alert. Notify Mister Lurry. We'll be right up.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What is the position of the Klingon ship?
CHEKOV: A hundred kilometers off K7. It's just sitting there.
UHURA: Captain, I have Mister Lurry.
KIRK: Put him on visual.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Lurry, there's a Klingon warship hanging one hundred kilometers off your station.
LURRY (screen): I don't think the Klingons are planning to attack us.
KIRK: Why not?
LURRY (screen): Because at this moment the captain of the Klingon ship is sitting right here in my office.
KIRK: Cancel Red Alert. We'll beam right down.
UHURA: Security, cancel Red Alert.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4524.2. A Klingon warship is hovering only a hundred kilometers from Deep Space Station K7 while its captain waits in the station manager's office. Their intentions are unknown.

[Lurry's office]
KOLOTH: Ah, my dear Captain Kirk.
KIRK: My dear Captain Koloth.
KOLOTH: Let me assure you that my intentions are peaceful. As I've already told Mister Lurry, the purpose of my presence is to invoke shore leave rights.
KIRK: Shore leave?
KOLOTH: Captain, we Klingons are not as luxury-minded as you Earthers. We do not equip our ships with, how shall I say it, non-essentials.
KORAX: We have been in space for five months. What we choose as recreation is our own business.
KOLOTH: I might also add that under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, you cannot refuse us.
KIRK: Yes, well, I don't make those decisions. Mister Lurry is in charge of those matters.
LURRY: Captain, may I speak to you a minute? Look, I don't want them here, but I don't have the authority to refuse.
KIRK: Well, I have the authority to act, and I'm going to use it. My dear Captain Koloth, you may indeed bring your men down on shore leave, but only twelve at a time. And I assure you, for every man you bring down here, I shall have one security guard. There will be no trouble.
KOLOTH: Captain Kirk, there's been no formal declaration of hostilities between our two respective governments. So, naturally, our relationship will be a peaceful one.
KIRK: Let us both take steps to keep it that way.
KOLOTH: Of course.

[Rec room]
KIRK: Another technical journal, Scotty?
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: Don't you ever relax?
SCOTT: I am relaxing.
MCCOY: How long have you had that thing, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Since yesterday, Doctor. This morning, I found out that he, I mean she, had had babies.
MCCOY: Well, in that case, you got a bargain.
KIRK: You running a nursery, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Oh, Captain. Well, I hadn't intended to, sir, but the tribble had other plans.
KIRK: Did you get this at the space station?
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: A most curious creature, Captain. Its trilling seems to have a tranquilizing effect on the human nervous system. Fortunately, of course, I am immune to its effect.
MCCOY: Lieutenant, do you mind if I take one of these down to the lab to see what makes it tick?
UHURA: Well, all right, Doctor, but if you're going to dissect it, I don't want to know about it.
MCCOY: I won't harm a hair on its head, wherever that is.
FREEMAN: Say, Lieutenant. Seeing as you're giving them away, can I have one?
UHURA: Sure, why not? I think they're old enough. Go ahead.

[Corridor]
CHEKOV (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Mister Baris waiting is on channel E to speak to you, sir.
KIRK: Pipe it down here will you, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Aye, sir. Mister Baris is coming on.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Baris. What can I do for you?

[Lurry's office]
BARIS: Kirk, this station is swarming with Klingons.

[Corridor]
KIRK: I was not aware, Mister Baris, that twelve Klingons constitutes a swarm.

[Lurry's office]
BARIS: Captain Kirk, there are Klingon soldiers on this station. Now, I want you to keep that grain safe.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Mister Baris, I have guards around the grain. I have guards around the Klingons. The only reason those guards are there is because Starfleet wants them there. As for what you want It has been noted and logged. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Captain, may I ask where you'll be?
KIRK: Sickbay with a headache.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Hi, Jim.
KIRK: Bones, what have you got for a headache?
MCCOY: Let me guess. Klingons? Baris?
KIRK: Both. How many of these did Uhura give you?
MCCOY: Just one.
KIRK: But you've got, er, eleven.
MCCOY: You noticed that, huh? Here. This ought to take care of it.
KIRK: How do they? How do they?
MCCOY: I haven't figured that out yet, but I can tell you this much. Almost fifty percent of the creature's metabolism is geared for reproduction. Do you know what you get if you feed a tribble too much?
KIRK: A fat tribble.
MCCOY: No. You get a bunch of hungry little tribbles.
KIRK: Well, Bones, all I can suggest is you open up a maternity ward.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: All you men going on shore leave to stay in groups. Avoid trouble with the Klingons.
SCOTT: I'll tell them before they go, sir.
KIRK: Aren't you going on shore leave, Scotty?
SCOTT: Why, no, sir.
KIRK: I want you to go on shore leave. Make sure that everybody stays out of trouble.
SCOTT: But, Captain. Aye, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, enjoy yourself.

[K7 Bar]
JONES: Ah, friend. Can I offer you a charming little tribble?
SCOTT: Uh, no, thanks.
JONES: Oh. Perhaps one of you other gents?
JONES: Ah, friend Klingon. Can I interest you in a harmless tribble?
KORAX: Get it away from me.
JONES: I'm sorry. I can't understand it. I've never seen them act this way before.
KORAX: Get out of here with that parasite.
JONES: He's only a harmless little
KORAX: Take it away!
JONES: Yes. Ah, my good friend. How would you like to enter another little transaction? This time, a tribble for a spot
BARMAN: A tribble.
JONES: Indeed.
BARMAN: A tribble?
SCOTT: When are you going to get off that milk diet, lad?
CHEKOV: This is vodka.
SCOTT: Where I come from, that's soda pop. This is a drink for a man.
CHEKOV: Scotch?
SCOTT: Aye.
CHEKOV: It was invented by a little old lady from Leningrad.
KORAX: The Earthers like those fuzzy things, don't they?
JONES: Oh, yes.
KLINGON: Frankly, I never liked Earthers. They remind me of Regulan blood worms.
CHEKOV: That Cossack.
SCOTT: Easy, lad. You ought to be more forgiving.
KORAX: No. I just remembered. There is one Earthman who doesn't remind me of a Regulan blood worm. That's Kirk. A Regulan blood worm is soft and shapeless, but Kirk isn't soft. Kirk may be a swaggering, overbearing, tin-plated dictator with delusions of godhood, but he's not soft.
SCOTT: Take it easy, lad. Everybody's entitled to an opinion.
KORAX: That's right, and if I think that Kirk is a Denebian slime devil, well that's my opinion too.
SCOTT: Don't do it, mister, and that's an order.
CHEKOV: You heard what he called the captain.
SCOTT: Forget it. It's not worth fighting for. We're big enough to take a few insults. Now, drink your drink.
KORAX: Of course, I'd say that Captain Kirk deserves his ship. We like the Enterprise. We, we really do. That sagging old rust bucket is designed like a garbage scow. Half the quadrant knows it. That's why they're learning to speak Klingonese.
CHEKOV: Mister Scott!
SCOTT: Laddie, don't you think you should rephrase that?
KORAX: You're right, I should. I didn't mean to say that the Enterprise should be hauling garbage. I meant to say that it should be hauled away as garbage. Captain's Log, stardate 4525.6. A small disturbance between the Klingon crew and members of the Enterprise crew has broken out aboard Space Station K7. I am forced to cancel shore leave for both ships.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: I want to know who started it. I'm waiting. Freeman, who started the fight?
FREEMAN: I don't know, sir.
KIRK: All right. Chekov. I know you. You started it, didn't you?
CHEKOV: No, sir, I didn't.
KIRK: Who did?
CHEKOV: I don't know, sir.
KIRK: I don't know, sir. I want to know who threw the first punch. All right. You're all confined to quarters until I find out who started it. Dismissed. Scotty, not you. You were supposed to prevent trouble, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Who threw the first punch, Scotty?
SCOTT: Um.
KIRK: Mister Scott?
SCOTT: I did, Captain.
KIRK: You did, Mister Scott? What caused it, Scotty?
SCOTT: They insulted us, sir.
KIRK: Must have been some insult.
SCOTT: Aye, it was.
KIRK: You threw the first punch.
SCOTT: Aye. Chekov wanted to, but I held him back.
KIRK: You held? Why did Chekov want to start a fight?
SCOTT: Well, the Klingon, sir. Is this off the record?
KIRK: No, this is not off the record.
SCOTT: Well, Captain, the Klingons called you, uh a tin-plated, overbearing, swaggering dictator with delusions of godhood.
KIRK: Is that all?
SCOTT: No, sir. They also compared you with a Denebian slime devil.
KIRK: I see.
SCOTT: And then they said you
KIRK: I get the picture, Scotty.
SCOTT: Yes, sir.
KIRK: After they said all this, that's when you hit the Klingons?
SCOTT: No, sir.
KIRK: No?
SCOTT: No, I didn't. You told us to avoid trouble.
KIRK: Oh, yes.
SCOTT: And I didn't see that it was worth fighting about. After all, we're big enough to take a few insults. Aren't we?
KIRK: What was it they said that started the fight?
SCOTT: They called the Enterprise a garbage scow, sir.
KIRK: I see. And that's when you hit the Klingons?
SCOTT: Yes, sir.
KIRK: You hit the Klingons because they insulted the Enterprise, not because they
SCOTT: Well, sir, this was a matter of pride.
KIRK: All right, Scotty. Dismissed. Scotty, you're restricted to quarters until further notice.
SCOTT: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. That'll give me a chance to catch up on my technical journals.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: What's the matter, Spock?
SPOCK: There's something disquieting about these creatures.
MCCOY: Don't tell me you've got a feeling.
SPOCK: Don't be insulting, Doctor. They remind me of the lilies of the field. They toil not, neither do they spin. But they seem to eat a great deal. I see no practical use for them.
MCCOY: Does everything have to have a practical use for you? They're nice, soft, and furry, and they make a pleasant sound.
SPOCK: So would an ermine violin, but I see no advantage in having one.
MCCOY: It's a human characteristic to love little animals, especially if they're attractive in some way.
SPOCK: Doctor, I am well aware of human characteristics. I am frequently inundated by them, but I've trained myself to put up with practically anything.
MCCOY: Spock, I don't know too much about these little tribbles yet, but there's one thing that I have diskovered.
SPOCK: What is that, Doctor?
MCCOY: I like them better than I like you.
SPOCK: Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes?
SPOCK: They do have one redeeming characteristic.
MCCOY: What's that?
SPOCK: They do not talk too much. If you'll excuse me, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, would you mind coming up to the bridge? Lieutenant Uhura, how did all these tribbles get on the bridge?
UHURA: I don't know, sir. They do seem to be all over the ship.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Yes? Did you want to see me, Jim? Don't look at me. It's the tribbles who are breeding. If we don't get them off this ship, we're going to be hip deep in them.
KIRK: Explain that.
MCCOY: The nearest thing I can figure out is they're born pregnant, which seems to be quite a time saver.
KIRK: I know, but really
MCCOY: And from my observations, it seems they're bisexual, reproducing at will. And, brother, have they got a lot of will.
SPOCK: Captain, I am forced to agree with the doctor. I've been running computations on their rate of reproduction. The figures are taking an alarming direction. They're consuming our supplies and returning nothing.
UHURA: But they do give us something, Mister Spock. They give us love. Well, Cyrano Jones says a tribble is the only love that money can buy.
KIRK: Too much of anything, Lieutenant, even love, isn't necessarily a good thing.
UHURA: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Get the maintenance crew to clean up the entire ship, and then contact Mister Lurry and tell him I'm beaming down.
UHURA: Aye, aye.
KIRK: Have him find Cyrano Jones and hold him.
UHURA: Aye.
KIRK: And get these tribbles off the bridge.
UHURA: Aye, aye, Captain.

[Lurry's office]
JONES: Captain Kirk, I'm mystified at your tone of voice. I've done nothing to warrant such severe treatment.
KIRK: Oh, really?
SPOCK: Surely you must have realized what would happen if you removed the tribbles from their predator-filled environment into an environment where their natural multiplicative proclivities would have no restraining factors.
JONES: Of course. What did you say?
SPOCK: By removing the tribbles from their natural habitat, you have, so to speak, removed the cork from the bottle and allowed the genie to escape.
JONES: If by that, you mean do they breed quickly? Of course, that's how I maintain my stock. Breeding animals is not against regulations, only breeding dangerous ones. And tribbles are not dangerous.
KIRK: Just incredibly prolific.
JONES: Precisely, and at six credits a head, well, that is, a body, it mounts up. Now if you'll excuse me.
KIRK: You should sell an instruction and maintenance manual for this thing.
JONES: If I did, what would happen to man's search for knowledge? Well, I must be tending my ship. Au revoir.
DARVIN: Go ahead, sir. Tell him.
BARIS: Captain Kirk, I consider your security measures a disgrace. In my opinion, you have taken this important project far too lightly.
KIRK: On the contrary, sir. I think of this project as very important. It is you I take lightly.
BARIS: I am going to report fully to the proper authorities that you have given free and complete access to this station to a man who is quite probably a Klingon agent.
KIRK: That's a serious charge. To whom are you referring?
BARIS: To that man who just walked out of here.
KIRK: Cyrano Jones, a Klingon agent?
BARIS: You heard me.
KIRK: I heard you.
SPOCK: He simply could not believe his ears.
KIRK: What evidence do you have against Mister Jones?
BARIS: My assistant here has kept Mister Jones under close surveillance for quite some time, and his actions have been most suspicious. I believe he was involved in that little altercation between your men and the men from
KIRK: Yes, yes. Go on. What else do you have?
DARVIN: Well Captain, I've checked his ship's log, and it seems that he was within the Klingon's sphere of influence less than four months ago.
BARIS: The man is an independent scout, Captain. It is quite possible he is also a Klingon spy.
SPOCK: We have already checked on the background of Mister Cyrano Jones. He is a licensed asteroid locator and prospector. He's never broken the law, at least not severely. For the past seven years, with his one-man spaceship, he's obtained a marginal living by engaging in the buying and selling of rare merchandise, including, unfortunately, tribbles.
BARIS: But he is after my grain!
KIRK: Do you have any proof of that?
DARVIN: You can't deny he's disrupted this station.
KIRK: People have disrupted stations before without being Klingon agents. Sometimes, all they need is a title, Mister Baris. Unfortunately, disrupting a space station is not an offense. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a ship to tend to. Au revoir.

[Rec room]
KIRK: My chicken sandwich and coffee. This is my chicken sandwich and coffee.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: I want these off the ship. I don't care if it takes every man we've got, I want them off the ship.
SCOTT: They're into the machinery, all right, and they're probably in all the other food processors too.
KIRK: How?
SCOTT: Probably through one of the air vents.
SPOCK: Captain, there are vents of that type on the space station.
KIRK: And in the storage compartments. This is Kirk. Contact Manager Lurry and Nilz Baris. Have them meet us near the storage compartments. We're beaming down. Come on, Spock.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energize.

[Lurry's office]
LURRY: What's wrong?
KIRK: Plenty, if what I think's happened has happened.

[Storage compartments]
KIRK: Is that door secure?
GUARD: Yes, sir. Nothing could get in.
KIRK: Good. Open it.
GUARD: It's not working, sir. It seems to be stuck.
KIRK: Here. Let me try it.
SPOCK: They seem to be gorged.
BARIS: Gorged? On my grain? Kirk, I am going to hold you responsible. There must be thousands of them.
KIRK: Hundreds of thousands.
SPOCK: One million seven hundred seventy one thousand five hundred sixty one. That's assuming one tribble, multiplying with an average litter of ten, producing a new generation every twelve hours over a period of three days.
KIRK: That's assuming they got here three days ago.
SPOCK: And allowing for the amount of grain consumed and the volume of the storage compartment.
BARIS: Kirk, you should have known. You are responsible for turning the development project into a total disaster.
KIRK: Mister Baris
BARIS: And I'm through being intimidated, Kirk. You have insulted me, you have ignored me, you've walked all over me. You have abused your authority, and you've rejected my requests. And this, this is the result. I'm going to hold you responsible.
KIRK: Mister Baris, I'll hold you in irons if you don't shut up.
MCCOY: Jim, I think I've got it. All we have to do is quit feeding them. We quit feeding them, they stop breeding.
KIRK: Now he tells me.
SPOCK: Captain this tribble is dead. And so are these.
MCCOY: A lot of them are dead. A lot of them are alive, but they won't be for long.
SPOCK: The logical assumption is that there is something in the grain.
KIRK: Yes. Bones, I want the tribbles, the grain, everything analyzed. I want to know what killed these tribbles.
MCCOY: I haven't figured out what keeps them alive yet. All right, if I find out anything, I'll let you know.
BARIS: That isn't going to do you any good, Kirk. This project is ruined, and Starfleet is going to hear about it. And when they do, they will have a board of inquiry and they will roast you alive. And I am going to be there, Kirk, to enjoy every minute of it.
KIRK: Until that inquiry, I'm still the captain. And as Captain, I want two things done. First, find Cyrano Jones, and second close that door.

[Lurry's office]
JONES: Really, Captain Kirk, I must protest this treatment.
KIRK: Ah, Mister Jones, with an armful. A few questions.
KOLOTH: Captain Kirk!
KIRK: What do you want?
KOLOTH: An official apology addressed to the Klingon High Command. I expect you to assume full responsibility for the persecution of Klingon nationals in this quadrant.
KIRK: An apology?
KOLOTH: Yes. You've harassed my men. You've treated them like criminals. You've been most uncourteous, Captain Kirk. If you wish to avoid a diplomatic incident
BARIS: No, Kirk. You can't let him. That will give them the wedge they need to claim Sherman's Planet.
SPOCK: I believe that more than the word of an aggrieved Klingon commander would be necessary for that, Mister Baris.
KOLOTH: Mister Spock, as far as Sherman's Planet is concerned, Captain Kirk has already given it to us.
KIRK: Well, we'll see about that, but before I take any official action, I'd like to know Just what happened. Who put the tribbles in the quadrotriticale? What was in the grain that killed them?
KOLOTH: Captain Kirk, before you go on, may I make a request?
KIRK: Yes.
KOLOTH: Can you get those things out of here?
SPOCK: Remarkable.
KIRK: Hold on a minute. I thought you said tribbles liked everybody.
JONES: They do. I can't understand it. The last time I saw one act this way was at the bar.
KIRK: What was in the bar?
JONES: Klingons. Him, for one.
KIRK: You're right, Mister Jones. They don't like Klingons. But they do like Vulcans. I didn't know you had it in you.
SPOCK: Obviously tribbles are very perceptive creatures, Captain.
KIRK: Obviously. Mister Baris, they like you. Well, there's no accounting for taste. They don't like you, Mister Darvin. I wonder why. Bones?
MCCOY: Heartbeat is all wrong. His body temperature is. Jim, this man is a Klingon.
BARIS: A Klingon?
KIRK: I wonder what Starfleet Command will say about that. What about the grain, Bones?
MCCOY: Oh, yes. It was poisoned.
BARIS: Poisoned?
MCCOY: Yes. It's been impregnated with a virus. The virus turns into an inert material in the bloodstream. The more the organism eats, the more inert matter is built up. So after two or three days, they reached a point where they couldn't take in enough nourishment to survive.
KIRK: They starved to death. In a storage compartment full of grain, they starved to death.
MCCOY: That is essentially it.
KIRK: Mister Darvin, are you going to talk?
DARVIN: I have nothing to say. All right, I poisoned the grain! Take them away.
KIRK: And the tribbles had nothing to do with it?
DARVIN: I don't know. I never saw one before in my life, and I hope I never see one of those fuzzy miserable things again.
BARIS: I'm certain that can be arranged, Darvin. Guards? If you'll excuse me, Captain.
KIRK: Captain Koloth. About that apology.
KOLOTH: Yes?
KIRK: You have six hours to get your ship out of Federation territory.
KIRK: You know, I think I could learn to like tribbles.

[K7 Bar]
JONES: Well, Captain, I suppose I'm free to go now.
KIRK: No, you're not. There's something I want to show you. You know what the penalty is for transporting an animal proven harmful to human life?
JONES: Captain, one little tribble isn't harmful. Captain, you wouldn't do a thing like that to me, now would you? Would you?
SPOCK: The penalty is twenty years in a rehabilitation colony.
JONES: Captain Kirk. Friend. Friend Kirk. Surely we can come to some sort of mutual understanding. After all, my tribbles did put you wise to the poisoned grain, and they did help you to find the Klingon agent. You saved a lot of lives that way.
KIRK: There is one thing you can do.
JONES: Yes?
KIRK: Pick up every tribble on the space station. If you do that, I'll speak to Mister Lurry about returning your spaceship.
JONES: It would take years.
SPOCK: Seventeen point nine, to be exact.
JONES: Seventeen point nine years.
KIRK: Consider it Job security.
JONES: Captain, you're a hard man. All right! All right!
KIRK: You'll do it?
SPOCK: He'll do it.
JONES: I'll do it.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, Starfleet was able to divert that freighter.
KIRK: Good. That means Sherman's Planet will get its quadrotriticale only a few weeks late. I don't see any tribbles around here.
MCCOY: And you won't find a tribble on this entire ship.
KIRK: Bones, how did you do it?
MCCOY: I cannot take credit for another man's work. Scotty did it.
KIRK: Scotty! Where are the tribbles?
SCOTT: Oh, er, Captain, it was really Mister Spock's recommendation.
KIRK: Of course. Spock.
SPOCK: Based on computer analysis, of course, taking into account the possibilities of
KIRK: Gentlemen, I don't want to interrupt this mutual admiration society, but I'd like to know where the tribbles are.
MCCOY: Tell him, Spock.
SPOCK: Well, it was Mister Scott who performed the actual engineering.
KIRK: Mister Scott. Where are the tribbles?
SCOTT: I used the transporter, Captain.
KIRK: You used the transporter?
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: Where did you transport them? Scott, you didn't transport them into space, did you?
SCOTT: Captain Kirk, that'd be inhuman.
KIRK: Where are they?
SCOTT: I gave them a good home, sir.
KIRK: Where?
SCOTT: I gave them to the Klingons, sir.
KIRK: You gave them to the Klingons?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Before they went into warp, I transported the whole kit and caboodle into their engine room, where they'll be no tribble at all.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: No doubt about it, Captain. The space debris comes from the survey vessel SS Beagle.
KIRK: Missing for six years, and now this junk in space.
SPOCK: Portions of the antimatter nacelles, personal belongings. Captain, no signs of bodies whatsoever.
KIRK: Then whatever destroyed the ship, the crew was able to get off safely. Navigator, compute the present drift of the wreckage.
CHEKOV: Computed and on the board, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, assuming that the wreckage drifted at the same speed and direction for the past six years?
SPOCK: It would have come from planet four, star system eight nine two, directly ahead.
CHEKOV: Only one sixteenth parsec away, Captain. We should be there in seconds.
KIRK: Standard orbit around the planet. There may be survivors there.
SPOCK: SS Beagle. Small class four stardrive vessel. Crew of forty seven, commanded by. Jim, I believe you knew him. Captain R M Merik.
KIRK: Yes, at the academy. He was dropped in his fifth year. He went into the merchant service.
CHEKOV: Coming up on the planet, captain.
KIRK: Put it on the screen.
CHEKOV: Definitely class M, somewhat similar to Earth.
KIRK: Yes, similar. But the land masses and oceans are quite different, however.
SPOCK: Different in shape only, Captain. The proportion of land to water is exactly as on your Earth. Density five point five, diameter seven nine one seven at the equator, atmosphere seventy eight percent nitrogen, twenty one percent oxygen. Again, exactly like Earth.
KIRK: Exactly in some ways, different in others.
SPOCK: I also picked up indications of large cities.
KIRK: What era?
SPOCK: No sign of atomic power as yet, but far enough along for radio communications, power transportation, an excellent road system.
UHURA: Captain, both amplitude and frequency modulation being used. I think I can pick up something visual. It's a news broadcast using a system I think they once called video.
SPOCK: Television was the colloquial term.
KIRK: Put it on the screen.
UHURA: Aye.
VOICE (voiceover): Today police rounded up still another group of dissidents. Authorities are as yet unable to explain these fresh outbreaks of treasonable disobedience by well-treated, well-protected, intelligent slaves. Now turning to the world of sports and bringing you the taped results of the arena games last night. The first heat involved amateurs. They're petty thieves from City Prison. Conducted, however, with traditional weapons, it provided some amusement for a few moments. In the second heat, a slightly more professional display in the spirit of our splendid past, when gladiator Claudius Marcus killed the last of the barbarians, William B. Harrison, in an excellent example of
UHURA: Transmission lost, sir. Shall I try to get it back?
KIRK: Slaves and gladiators. What are we seeing, a twentieth-century Rome?
SPOCK: Captain, the one described as the barbarian is also listed here. Flight officer William B. Harrison of the SS Beagle. At least there were some survivors down there.
KIRK: Ready the transporter room, Mister Spock. We're beaming down.

[Hillside]
KIRK: You could have selected a more convenient place, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: But hardly more practical, captain. Close to the city we located, but not populated. We should not be observed.
SPOCK: Fascinating. This atmosphere is remarkably similar to your twentieth century. Moderately industrialized pollution containing substantial amounts of carbon monoxide and partially consumed hydrocarbons.
MCCOY: The word was smog.
SPOCK: Yes, I believe that was the term. I had no idea you were that much of a historian, Doctor.
MCCOY: I am not, Mister Spock. I was simply trying to stop you from giving us a whole lecture on the subject. Jim, is there anything at all we know about this planet?
KIRK: The SS Beagle was the first ship to make a survey of this star sector when it disappeared.
SPOCK: Then the Prime Directive is in full force, Captain?
KIRK: No identification of self or mission. No interference with the social development of said planet.
MCCOY: No references to space, or the fact that there are other worlds, or more advanced civilisations.
KIRK: Let's go.
MCCOY: One, just once, I'd like to be able to land someplace and say, Behold, I am the Archangel Gabriel.
SPOCK: I fail to see the humor in that situation, Doctor.
MCCOY: Naturally. You could hardly claim to be an angel with those pointed ears, Mister Spock. But say you landed someplace with a pitchfork.
FLAVIUS (voiceover): Don't move! Hands in the air!
SPOCK: Complete Earth parallel. The language here is English.
FLAVIUS (voiceover): I said, don't move!
KIRK: I think he means it, Spock.
SPOCK: There would seem to be evidence to that effect.
FLAVIUS: Who are you?
KIRK: We come from another province.
FLAVIUS: Where are you from? What do you call those?
SPOCK: I call them ears.
FLAVIUS: Are you trying to be funny?
SPOCK: Never. Colloquial twentieth-century English. An amazing parallel.
KIRK: We come from a place that's quite some journey from here. I doubt if you've heard
FLAVIUS: Uniforms. Probably some new Praetorian guard unit. I should kill you here, but Septimus would probably be displeased. Move. Move! (As they are lead along, a guard whistles the signal that they are approaching, and two men come out of a hidden cave.

[Cave entrance]
FLAVIUS: I didn't harm them, Septimus, as much as I wanted to.
SEPTIMUS: Keep always in your mind, Flavius, that our way is peace.
MCCOY: For which we are grateful, for we are men of peace ourselves.
SEPTIMUS: Oh? Are you Children of the Sun?
MCCOY: Well, if you're speaking of worships of sorts, we represent many beliefs.
FLAVIUS: There is only one true belief! Roman butchers, sent here by the first citizen.
KIRK: Do we look like any Romans you ever saw ?
SEPTIMUS: Then are you slaves like ourselves?
KIRK: Our people don't believe in slavery.
FLAVIUS: A Roman lie. We must kill them.
SPOCK: Sir, we came here looking for some friends, forty seven of them who were stranded here some six years ago. They wore clothing similar to ours. Have you heard of such men?
FLAVIUS: Septimus, I know killing is evil, but sometimes it's necessary.
SEPTIMUS: No.
FLAVIUS: But they've located us, our hiding place. It's better to kill a few of them than all of us.
KIRK: Wait. I can prove we're telling the truth. A small device. I'll take it out slowly. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, lock in on my transmission beam. Scan us.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scanning, sir.
KIRK: Including ourselves, how many of us are there?
SCOTT (voiceover): Twelve, Captain.
KIRK: Good, Scotty. Continue scanning. We'll maintain transmission. Kirk out. The Enterprise is our ship, somewhere at sea. That's all I can tell you. If it isn't sufficient, you will have to kill us.
SEPTIMUS: Tell me the empire has a device like that, Flavius, and you may kill them. Otherwise, accept them as friends.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4040.7. On the surface of planet four, system eight nine two, the landing party has won the confidence of what obviously is a group of runaway slaves. They dwell in caves not far from a large city, wear rags, live under primitive conditions. But they are creatures of a heavily industrialized twentieth-century type planet very much like Earth. An amazing example of Hodgkins's law of Parallel Planet Development. But on this Earth, Rome never fell. A world ruled by emperors who can trace their line back two thousand years to their own Julius and Augustus Caesars.

[Cave]
SEPTIMUS: No, Captain. I'm sure I would have heard of the arrival of other men like you.
KIRK: Perhaps you've heard, let's say, an impossible story or a rumor of men who came from the sky or from other worlds.
SEPTIMUS: There are no other worlds.
KIRK: The stars.
SEPTIMUS: Lights shining through from heaven. It is where the sun is. Blessed be the sun.
KIRK: Yes, of course.
SPOCK: Captain, I thought you might find this interesting.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: The Jupiter Eight. Conventional internal combustion engine. You were right about the smog. But the Jupiter Eight? Mars toothpaste. Neptune bath salts.
SEPTIMUS: Taken from the names of false gods. When I was a senator, I worshiped them too, but I heard the words of the sun. I became a Brother. For that, they made me a slave.
KIRK: Septimus, we need your help. We must go into the city. We know that one of our missing friends was seen there recently.
SEPTIMUS: My advice to you is to leave. Go back where you came from.
KIRK: We can't do that. Perhaps you know his name. Merik. Captain Merik.
SEPTIMUS: Merikus?
KIRK: Yes. He's the leader of our friends.
SEPTIMUS: Merikus is first citizen. Butcher.
KIRK: That doesn't sound like the same man.
SPOCK: Captain, a logical question, if I may. Septimus, how many years ago did Merikus become your first citizen?
SEPTIMUS: Perhaps five years.
FLAVIUS: Almost six. I was there when he became lord of the games. If he is your friend, you are no friends of ours.
KIRK: Septimus, wherever we may be from, you must believe that it is one of our most important laws that none of us interfere with the affairs of others. If Captain Merik is Merikus, then he has violated that law, and he must be taken away and punished. Will you help us get to the truth of all this?
SEPTIMUS: First I must diskuss it with the others.
SPOCK: Curious, Captain, the similarity in names. Were you told why Merik was dropped from the Space Academy?
KIRK: He failed a psycho-simulator test. All it takes is a split second of indecision. Hardly the type to become a political strongman.
MCCOY: Odd that these people should worship the sun.
SPOCK: Why, Doctor?
MCCOY: Because, my dear Mister Spock, it is illogical. Rome had no sun worshipers. Why should they parallel Rome in every way except one?
SEPTIMUS: We have decided. Flavius will guide you. We will provide you with suitable clothing. I caution you, take great care. The police are everywhere. May the blessings of the sun be upon you.

[Countryside]
FLAVIUS: We'll wait here until dark.
KIRK: Are you a slave, Flavius?
FLAVIUS: You are barbarians indeed not to know of Flavius Maximus. For seven years, I was the most successful gladiator in this province.
KIRK: Then you heard the word of the sun?
FLAVIUS: Yes. The words of peace and freedom. It wasn't easy for me to believe. I was trained to fight. But the words, the words are true.
KIRK: There are many things I'd like to know
MAXIMUS: Hold! Don't move! Hands in the air! Four fleeing fish. A fine haul. Flavius Maximus.
MAXIMUS: You have been too long absent from the games, Flavius. The first citizen will be pleased. Runaway slaves are always welcome. No, not slaves. Barbarians. It's been a long time since I've watched barbarians die in the arena.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4040.9. Uniformed police like those of Earth, a great city like Rome with automobiles. Astonishing similarities to twentieth-century Earth, down to the fine carbon steel in the bars.

[Prison]
KIRK: Tell Merikus I'd like to see him.
MAXIMUS: The first citizen? Why would he bother with arena bait like you?
KIRK: Tell him it's Jim Kirk. Perhaps a friend.
MAXIMUS: Perhaps?
KIRK: Well, if I am a friend and you don't tell him, do you really want to risk that?
KIRK: But if there have been slaves for over 2,000 years, hasn't there always been diskontent, runaways?
FLAVIUS: Long ago there were rebellions, but they were suppressed. And with each century, the slaves acquired more rights under the law. They received rights to medicine, the right to government payments in their old age, and they slowly learned to be content.
SPOCK: Even more fascinating. Slavery evolving into an institution with guaranteed medical payments, old-age pensions.
MCCOY: Quite logical, I'd say, Mister Spock. Just as it's logical that twentieth-century Rome would use television to show its gladiator contests or name a new car the Jupiter Eight.
SPOCK: Doctor, if I were able to show emotion, your new infatuation with that term would begin to annoy me.
MCCOY: What term? Logic? Medical men are trained in logic, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Really, Doctor, I had no idea they were trained. Watching you, I assumed it was trial and error.
FLAVIUS: Are they enemies, Captain?
KIRK: I'm not sure they're sure. When the slaves began to worship the sun, they became diskontent again. When did all this happen?
FLAVIUS: Long ago. Perhaps as long ago as the beginning of the empire. The message of the sun, that all men are brothers, was kept from us. Perhaps I'm a fool to believe it. It does often seem that man must fight to live.
KIRK: You go on believing it, Flavius. All men are brothers.
MAXIMUS: Flavius. Your friends are waiting for you. You've already been matched for the morning games. Come.
FLAVIUS: I will not fight. I'm a Brother of the Sun.
MAXIMUS: Put a sword in your hand, and you'll fight. I know you, Flavius, you're as peaceful as a bull.
MAXIMUS: You three come with us.
KIRK: Three against three. We may never get a better chance.
MAXIMUS: No talking. Outside.
KIRK: I doubt if he'll get very far. He feels ill.
MCCOY: I do?
MAXIMUS: Outside!
KIRK: All right, but he'll double over before we get very far.
MCCOY: No, I think I can walk. I'll try.
KIRK: Let's go.
MERIK: Well done, Jim. I'm afraid it isn't that easy. They've been handling slaves here for two thousand years.
CLAUDIUS: But it was exciting. They'd do well in the arena.
KIRK: Captain Merik, isn't it ?
MERIK: Yes, it's me. This is our Proconsul, Claudius Marcus.
CLAUDIUS: But this is no place for a reunion.
MERIK: This way. Your friends, too. There's lots to talk about, lots to explain.
KIRK: I agree.
MERIK: Don't judge me before you know the facts. Come on, we can talk freely here. The Proconsul knows who and what we are.

[Chamber]
MERIK: You can leave us.
MERIK: Well, a celebration. A meeting of old friends.
CLAUDIUS: Prepare food for our friends. They've come from a great distance. A great distance indeed. So, this is a Vulcan. Interesting. From what I've heard, I wish I had fifty of you for the arena.
MERIK: This other is your ship's surgeon?
KIRK: McCoy.
MERIK: It's a pity we can't let him loose in our hospitals. Our level of medicine would improve immeasurably, I'm sure.
CLAUDIUS: Come. You must be hungry. Gentlemen?
CLAUDIUS: Oh, try the sparrow broiled in garum. Delicious. Or perhaps some of this roast kid. Lovely thing, isn't she?
KIRK: All right, what happened?
MERIK: We had meteor damage, Jim. I went ashore with a landing party to look for iridium ore for repairs, and I met this gentleman.
KIRK: Go on.
MERIK: He convinced me it would be unfair to this world to carry word of their existence elsewhere.
CLAUDIUS: Contamination. Can't risk that. Oh, you'll understand as you learn more about us.
MERIK: So I made the decision to stay.
KIRK: What happened to your crew? Did they voluntarily beam, come ashore?
MERIK: This is an ordered world, Jim, a conservative world based on time-honored Roman strengths and virtues.
KIRK: What happened to your crew?
MERIK: There's been no war here for over four hundred years, Jim. Could, let's say, your land of that same era make that same boast? I think you can see why they don't want to have their stability contaminated by dangerous ideas of other ways and other places.
SPOCK: Interesting, and given a conservative empire, quite understandable.
MCCOY: Are you out of your head?
SPOCK: I said I understood it, Doctor. I find the checks and balances of this civilisation quite illuminating.
MCCOY: Next he'll be telling us he prefers it over Earth history.
SPOCK: They do seem to have escaped the carnage of your first three world wars, Doctor.
MCCOY: They have slavery, gladiatorial games, despotism.
SPOCK: Situations quite familiar to the six million who died in your first world war, the eleven million who died in your second, the thirty seven million who died in your third. Shall I go on?
CLAUDIUS: Interesting. And you, Captain, which world do you prefer?
KIRK: My world, proconsul, is my vessel, my oath, my crew. What happened to your vessel you've explained. What happened to your oath is obvious.
MERIK: And as for my men, those that were able to adapt to this world are still alive. Those who couldn't adapt are dead. That's the way it is with life everywhere, isn't it?
KIRK: You sent your own men into the arena?
MERIK: Just as I did, Jim, you're going to order your own people ashore.
MCCOY: You must know that's impossible. Starfleet regulations
CLAUDIUS: Are designed to circumvent any such order. There may be over four hundred men on your ship, Captain, but they can be brought down if it's handled properly. Say, a few at a time. You see, I have the advantage of a trained ship captain to tell me what is and what is not possible. Your communicator, Captain Kirk. Now do save us all a lot of unnecessary trouble and issue the appropriate orders.
MERIK: They're going to be arriving soon, anyway, Jim. A recon party, then a rescue party, then another rescue party. I had less men. It added up the same.
KIRK: Do you really believe I could be made to order my own people down?
CLAUDIUS: I believe this, Captain. That you would do almost anything rather than see these two dear friends put slowly to death.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Bridge. Scott here.
KIRK: Scotty, if you have a fix. Stand by, Scotty.
CLAUDIUS: Very wise of you, Captain. No point in sending up bullet-ridden corpses.
KIRK: Yet on the other hand, my chief engineer's standing by for a message.
CLAUDIUS: I do hope so, for your sake. Now, Captain, what are you going to order your men to do?
KIRK: If I brought down a hundred of them armed with phasers
CLAUDIUS: you could probably defeat the combined armies of our entire empire, and violate your oath regarding noninterference with other societies. I believe you all swear you'll die before you'd violate that directive. Am I right?
SPOCK: Quite correct.
MCCOY: Must you always be so blasted honest?
CLAUDIUS: But on the other hand, why even bother to send your men down? From what I understand, your vessel could lay waste to the entire surface of the world. Oh, but there's that Prime Directive in the way again. Can't interfere.
MERIK: Jim, you've already started a message. Your engineer's waiting. What are you going to do?
KIRK: Scotty. Sorry to keep you waiting.
SCOTT (voiceover): We were becoming concerned, Captain. You were a bit overdue.
CLAUDIUS: Order your officers to come down.
KIRK: Condition Green, all's well. Kirk out.
CLAUDIUS: Guards, take them. Prepare them for the games.
MERIK: Ah, that was stupid, Jim. This is not an Academy training test. This is for real. They're taking you to die. Ship's log, stardate 4041.2. Chief Engineer Scott recording. Captain Kirk and his landing party have checked in

[Bridge]
SCOTT: But they have used the code term Condition Green, which means they're in trouble. But it also prohibits my taking any action. Mister Chekov, pinpoint power source locations. Type, power, load factors, and how much our beams will have to pull to overload them.
CHEKOV: That may take some time.
SCOTT: Let it take time, lad. They're in trouble, and I'm under orders not to interfere. However, no order can stop me from frightening them. It may do no good, but it may suggest to someone just what a starship can really do. Aye.

[Arena]
ANNOUNCER: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Live and direct from City Arena, and in color, we bring you Name the Winner, brought to you tonight by your Jupiter Eight dealers from coast to coast. In just a moment, tonight's first heat. We're in a taped commercial, Proconsul. Forty seconds, then we'll be back live.
ANNOUNCER: Stand by. Ten seconds. And first tonight, ladies and gentlemen, a surprise extra. In the far corner, a pair of highly aggressive barbarians. Strong, intelligent, with strange ways, and I'm sure full of a lot of surprises. And facing them, two favorites here from previous encounters, Achilles and Flavius. Victory or death? And for which of them? Well, ladies and gentlemen, you know as much about that at this moment as I do because this is your program. You name the winner.
FLAVIUS: I don't mind fighting, but why you?
VOICE (voiceover): Begin!
ANNOUNCER: Flavius may be getting off to a slow start, but he's never disappointed this crowd. A close one. The barbarian with the pointed ears seems to be in trouble.
SPOCK: I tell you I'm well able to defeat you.
ACHILLES: Fight, barbarian!
MERIK: Most of my men went the same way. I hoped I would feel it less with yours.
SPOCK: I do not want to injure you.
MASTER: Fight, you two. You bring this network's ratings down, Flavius, and we'll do a special on you.
CLAUDIUS: Question, Captain?
KIRK: The rules. If Spock should finish his man off first, would he be able to help
CLAUDIUS: We believe men should fight their own battles. Only the weak will die. My word as a Roman. Ready to order your men down, Captain?
MERIK: Maybe now you understand why I gave in. The Romans have always been the strongest, and they've had practice for over two thousand years in enslaving men, using them, killing them.
CLAUDIUS: Quite true, Captain Kirk. The games have always strengthened us. Death becomes a familiar pattern. We don't fear it as you do.
FLAVIUS: At least defend yourself.
MCCOY: I am defending myself!
FLAVIUS: Not like that, you fool. Hold your weapon higher.
CLAUDIUS: Admit it. You find these games frightening, revolting.
KIRK: Proconsul, in some parts of the galaxy I have seen forms of entertainment that makes this look like a folk dance.
CLAUDIUS: Certain this isn't different, Captain? Those are your men dying, not strangers.
KIRK: I've had to select men to die before so that others could be saved.
CLAUDIUS: You're a clever liar, Captain Kirk. Merikus was a spaceship captain. I've observed him thoroughly. Your species has no such strength.
MERIK: He commands not just a spaceship, Proconsul, but a starship. A very special vessel and crew. I tried for such a command.
CLAUDIUS: I see no evidence of superiority. They fight no better than your men did, Merikus. Perhaps not as well.
ACHILLES: Stop running. Fight.
SPOCK: Need any help, Doctor?
MCCOY: Whatever gave you that idea?
ACHILLES: Fight, you pointed-ear freak!
MCCOY: You tell him, buster. Of all the completely ridiculous, illogical questions I ever heard in my life!
MASTER: A clear foul, Proconsul. Your decision?
CLAUDIUS: Your opinion, Merikus? After all, they're like yourself.
MERIK: It's your decision, Proconsul.
CLAUDIUS: Your opinion, Captain Kirk? Would you like me to kill them now? An easy death? Then you'd gladly accept whatever happens to you. Take them back to their cage. Well, it won't go that easily for them, Captain, nor for you. Take him to my quarters.

[Chamber]
DRUSILLA: I was told to wait for you and provide wine, food, whatever you wish. I am Proconsul's slave Drusilla. Although for this evening. For this evening I was told I am your slave. Command me.
KIRK: It won't work.
DRUSILLA: What will not work?
KIRK: Whatever he has in mind, whatever tricks. You hear that, Proconsul? It won't work. I'm not co-operating. I may die, but you won't get any entertainment out of it.
DRUSILLA: We're alone. Please believe me. I've never lied to one who owns me.

[Jail]
MCCOY: Angry, Mister Spock, or frustrated, perhaps?
SPOCK: Such emotions are foreign to me, Doctor. I'm merely testing the strength of the door.
MCCOY: For the fifteenth time. Spock. Spock, I know we've had our disagreements. Maybe they're jokes. I don't know. As Jim says, we're not often sure ourselves sometimes, but what I'm trying to say is
SPOCK: Doctor, I am seeking a means of escape. Will you please be brief?
MCCOY: Well, what I'm trying to say is you saved my life in the arena.
SPOCK: Yes, that's quite true.
MCCOY: I'm trying to thank you, you pointed-eared hobgoblin!
SPOCK: Oh, yes. You humans have that emotional need to express gratitude. You're welcome, I believe, is the correct response. However, Doctor, you must remember I am entirely motivated by logic. The loss of our ship's surgeon, whatever I think of his skill, would mean a reduction in the efficiency of the Enterprise and therefore
MCCOY: Do you know why you're not afraid to die, Spock? You're more afraid of living. Each day you stay alive is just one more day you might slip and let your human half peek out. That's it, isn't it? Insecurity. Why, you wouldn't know what to do with a genuine, warm, decent feeling.
SPOCK: Really, Doctor?
MCCOY: I know. I'm worried about Jim, too.

[Chamber]
KIRK: Very good. Excellent.
DRUSILLA: I was concerned. I am ordered to please you.
KIRK: I've been in some strange worlds with strange customs. Perhaps this is considered torture here.
DRUSILLA: Torture? I do not understand. I do not wish to see you tortured in any way. At the first sign of pain, you will tell me?
KIRK: You'll be the first to know.
CLAUDIUS: Captain. I'm sorry I was detained. Should we have our little talk now? So far on this planet we've kept you rather busy. I don't wonder you slept through the afternoon. By the way, one of the communicators we took from you is missing. Was it my pretty Drusilla by any chance?
CLAUDIUS: See if he has it. Not that I would have punished her. I would have blamed you. You're a Roman, Kirk, or you should have been. It's not on his person?
MERIK: No, Proconsul.
CLAUDIUS: I am sorry I was detained. I trust there was nothing further you required?
KIRK: Nothing except perhaps an explanation.
CLAUDIUS: Because you're a man, I owe you that. You must die shortly, and because you are a man Would you leave us, Merik? The thoughts of one man to another cannot possibly interest you.
CLAUDIUS: Because you are a man, I gave you some last hours as a man.
KIRK: I appreciate that.
CLAUDIUS: Unfortunately, we must demonstrate that defiance is intolerable.
KIRK: Of course.
CLAUDIUS: But I've learned to respect you. I promise you, you will die easily, quickly.
KIRK: I thank you. And my friends?
CLAUDIUS: When their time comes, the same of course. Guards. Take him to the arena. Oh, we've pre-empted fifteen minutes on the early show for you. In full color. We guarantee you a splendid audience. You may not understand because you're centuries beyond anything as crude as television.
KIRK: I've heard it was similar. Enterprise log, Engineer Scott reporting. All banks in readiness for disruption of power sources on the planet's surface.

[Arena]
ANNOUNCER: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Before tonight's first heat, a simple execution. Stay tuned to this channel. There's a lot of excitement coming your way.
CLAUDIUS: Make it a quick, single thrust.
MASTER: Don't move. You'll only die harder.
FLAVIUS: Murderers! If you want death, fight me!

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Now, Mister Chekov. Activate.

[Arena]
CLAUDIUS: Guards, don't let him escape! Guards!

[Jail]
MCCOY: Jim!
KIRK: Stand back.
KIRK: Obsolete, but effective.
MCCOY: What happened, Jim?
SPOCK: What did they do to you?
KIRK: They threw me a few curves. No time to explain.
CLAUDIUS: Hold! We're in each other's line of fire. I pity you, Captain Merik, but at least watch and see how men die. Swords only!
MERIK: Starship, lock in on this. Three to beam
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Ready to beam up three.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4041.7. Note commendation, Engineering Officer Scott. Despite enormous temptation >

[Bridge]
KIRK: And strong personal feelings, he obeyed the Prime Directive. His temporary blackout of the city below resulted in no interference with the society and yet saved the lives of myself and the landing party.
SCOTT: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: Gentlemen.
MCCOY: Captain, I see on your report Flavius was killed. I am sorry. I liked that huge sun worshiper.
SPOCK: I wish we could have examined that belief of his more closely. It seems illogical for a sun worshiper to develop a philosophy of total brotherhood. Sun worship is usually a primitive superstition religion.
UHURA: I'm afraid you have it all wrong, Mister Spock, all of you. I've been monitoring some of their old-style radio waves, the empire spokesman trying to ridicule their religion. But he couldn't. Don't you understand? It's not the sun up in the sky. It's the Son of God.
KIRK: Caesar and Christ. They had them both. And the word is spreading only now.
MCCOY: A philosophy of total love and total brotherhood.
SPOCK: It will replace their imperial Rome, but it will happen in their twentieth century.
KIRK: Wouldn't it be something to watch, to be a part of? To see it happen all over again? Mister Chekov, take us out of orbit. Ahead warp factor one.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: Dress uniforms, spit and polish. I don't know how much longer I'm going to be able to stand this. I feel like my neck's in a sling.
KIRK: The Vulcans are the last delegates we have to pick up. As soon as we get them aboard, we'll be able to relax.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Sure. A formal reception tonight, a hundred and fourteen delegates aboard for two weeks, thirty two of them ambassadors, half of them mad at the other half, and the whole lot touchier than a raw antimatter pile over this Coridan question.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Shuttlecraft approaching with Ambassador Sarek's party. Estimate arrival one minute.
KIRK: Bring them aboard, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Standby to recover shuttlecraft. Honor guard to the hangar deck.

[Hangar deck]
VOICE (voiceover): Clear hangar deck. Clear hangar deck. Depressurizing. Recovering shuttlecraft. Hangar deck pressurizing.
MCCOY: How does that Vulcan salute go?
MCCOY: That hurts worse than the uniform.
KIRK: Captain James Kirk.
SAREK: Captain.
KIRK: My First Officer, Commander Spock.
SPOCK: Vulcan honors us with your presence. We come to serve.
SAREK: Your service honors us, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you. Chief Medical Officer Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Ambassador.
SAREK: Doctor. My aides and she who is my wife.
AMANDA: Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Our pleasure, madam. As soon as you're settled I'll arrange a tour of the ship. Mister Spock will conduct you.
SAREK: I'd prefer another guide, Captain.
KIRK: As you wish, Ambassador. Mister Spock, we'll leave orbit in two hours. Would you care to beam down and visit your parents?
SPOCK: Captain, Ambassador Sarek and his wife are my parents.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 3842.3. We have departed Vulcan for the neutral planetoid code-named Babel. Since it is in our sector, the Enterprise has been assigned to transport ambassadors of Federation planets to this vitally important council. The issues of the council are politically complex, the passengers explosive.

[Engineering]
KIRK: This is the engineering section. There are a number of emergency back-up systems for the main controls. Over here are a number of control computers.
AMANDA: After all these years among humans, you still haven't learned to smile.
SPOCK: Humans smile with so little provocation.
AMANDA: And you haven't come to see us in four years, either.
SPOCK: The situation between my father and myself has not changed.
SAREK: My wife, attend.
KIRK: Mister Spock. A moment, if you please.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Explain the computer components.
SAREK: I gave Spock his first instruction in computers, Captain. He chose to devote his knowledge to Starfleet instead of the Vulcan Science Academy.
SPOCK: If you will excuse me, Captain.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Ambassador. I did not mean to offend. I thought that
SAREK: Offense is a human emotion. I'm returning to my quarters. Continue, my wife.
KIRK: Mrs. Sarek, I just don't understand.
AMANDA: Amanda. I'm afraid you couldn't pronounce the Vulcan name.
KIRK: Can you?
AMANDA: After a fashion, and after many years of practice. Shall we continue the tour? My husband did request it.
KIRK: It sounded more like a command.
AMANDA: Of course. He's a Vulcan. I'm his wife.
KIRK: And Spock is his son.
AMANDA: You don't understand the Vulcan way, Captain. It's logical. It's a better way than ours. But it's not easy. It has kept Spock and Sarek from speaking as father and son for eighteen years.
KIRK: Spock is my best officer, and my friend.
AMANDA: I'm glad he has such a friend. It hasn't been easy on Spock. Neither human nor Vulcan. At home nowhere except Starfleet.
KIRK: I take it that Spock disagreed with his father on a choice of career.
AMANDA: My husband has nothing against Starfleet. But Vulcans believe that peace should not depend on force.
KIRK: Starfleet force is used only as a last resort. We're an instrument of civilisation. And it's a better opportunity for a scientist to study the universe than he can get at the Vulcan Science Academy.
AMANDA: Perhaps. But Sarek wanted Spock to follow his teachings, as Sarek followed the teachings of his own father.
KIRK: They are both stubborn.
AMANDA: A human trait, Captain?
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Excuse me. Kirk here.
UHURA (screen): Captain, I've picked up some sort of signal. Just a few symbols. Nothing intelligible.
KIRK: Source?
UHURA (screen): That's what bothers me, sir. Impossible to locate. There wasn't enough of it. Sensors show nothing in the area, but it was a strong signal, as though it was very close.
KIRK: Go to alert status four. Begin long-range scanning. Kirk out.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 3842.4. The interplanetary conference will consider the petition of the Coridan planets to be admitted to the Federation. The Coridan system has been claimed by some of the races now aboard our ship as delegates, races who have strong personal reasons for keeping Coridan out of the Federation. The most pressing problem aboard the Enterprise is to make sure open warfare doesn't break out among the delegates before the conference begins.

[Lounge]
MCCOY: Mister Ambassador, I understand you had retired before this conference was called. Forgive my curiosity, but as a doctor, I'm interested in Vulcan physiology. Isn't it unusual for a Vulcan to retire at your age? After all, you're only a hundred and two.
SAREK: One hundred two point four three seven precisely, Doctor, measured in your years. I had other concerns.
KIRK: Ambassador.
GAV: Sarek of Vulcan, do you vote to admit Coridan to the Federation?
SAREK: The vote will not be taken here, Ambassador Gav. My government's instructions will be heard in the council chambers on Babel.
GAV: No! You! How do you vote, Sarek of Vulcan?
SHRAS: Why must you know, Tellarite?
GAV: In council, his vote carries others. I will know where he stands and why.
SAREK: Tellarites do not argue for reasons. They simply argue.
GAV: No. You
KIRK: Gentlemen. Ambassador Sarek is quite correct when he points out this is not the council chamber of Babel. I'm fully aware that the admission of Coridan is a highly debatable issue, but you won't solve it here.
SAREK: You are correct, Captain. Quite logical.
SHRAS: My apologies, Captain.
GAV: You will excuse me.
SHRAS: Have you met Gav before, Ambassador?
SAREK: We debated during my last council session. Ambassador.
AMANDA: Ambassador Gav lost.
MCCOY: Spock, I've always suspected that you were a little more human than you let on. Mrs. Sarek, I know about the rigorous training of the Vulcan youth, but tell me, did he ever run and play like the human children, even in secret?
AMANDA: Well, he, he did have a pet sehlat he was very fond of.
MCCOY: Sehlat?
AMANDA: It's sort of a fat teddy bear.
MCCOY: A teddy bear?
SAREK: Excuse me, Doctor. It has been a rather long day for my wife. Captain.
KIRK: Ambassador.
MCCOY: A teddy bear.
SPOCK: Not precisely, Doctor. On Vulcan, the teddy bears are alive, and they have six-inch fangs.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Captain, sensors are registering an unidentified vessel pacing us.
KIRK: On my way. All duty personnel on Yellow Alert. Don't alarm the passengers. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Report.
CHEKOV: A small ship, Captain. It's been there five minutes, remaining outside phaser range at extreme limit of sensors.
KIRK: Identification, Spock?
SPOCK: Sensors indicate the size of a scout ship, but the configuration is unfamiliar. Most unusual.
KIRK: Does she answer a hail?
UHURA: I've tried all frequencies and hooked in the universal translator. No response, sir. KIRK; Maintain translator broadcast. Check records for authorized ships.
SPOCK: Starfleet records no authorized vessel in this quadrant except ours.
KIRK: Care to guess what she is?
SPOCK: Guess, Captain? I shall need more data for my estimate.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, plot course to intercept that vessel. I want to see what she looks like close up.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.

[Sarek's quarters]
SAREK: You embarrassed Spock this evening. Not even a mother may do that. He is a Vulcan.
AMANDA: He's also human.
SAREK: He's a Starfleet officer.
AMANDA: I thought you didn't approve of Starfleet.
SAREK: It is not a question of approval. The fact exists. He is in Starfleet. He must command respect if he is to function.
AMANDA: Sarek, you're proud of him, aren't you? You're showing almost human pride in your son.
SAREK: It does not require pride to ask that Spock be given the respect which is his due. Not as my son, but as Spock. Do you understand?
AMANDA: Not really, but it doesn't matter. I love you anyway. I know. It isn't logical.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Vessel changing course, heading toward us at high warp speed.
KIRK: Ready main phasers.
CHEKOV: Phasers armed and ready, sir.
SPOCK: Interesting. They were traveling at approximately warp ten.
KIRK: Back on original course, Mister Chekov. Report on intruder's movements.
UHURA: Captain, Starfleet acknowledges report on our situation and confirms no authorized Federation vessel in this quadrant.
CHEKOV: Back on original heading, Captain. The intruder changed course immediately after we did. It's paralleling us again.
KIRK: Well, we have a shadow. Faster, more maneuverable and unidentified. Mister Spock, full analysis of sensor readings. I want to know who that intruder is.

[Lounge]
GAV: Vulcan, I would speak to you.
SAREK: It does seem unavoidable.
GAV: How do you vote on the Coridan admission?
SAREK: You seem unwilling to wait for the council meeting, Ambassador. No matter. We favor admission.
GAV: You favor? Why?
SAREK: Under Federation law, Coridan can be protected and its wealth administered for the benefit of its people.
GAV: That's well for you. Vulcan has no mining interest.
SAREK: Coridan has nearly unlimited wealth of dilithium crystals, but it is under-populated and unprotected. This invites illegal mining operations.
GAV: Illegal? You accuse us?
SAREK: Some of your ships have been carrying Coridan dilithium crystals.
GAV: You call us thieves?
KIRK: Gentlemen. Gentlemen. Whatever arguments you have between yourselves is your business. My business is running the ship. As long as I command, there will be order.
SAREK: Of course, Captain.
GAV: Understood. There will be payment for your slander, Sarek.
SAREK: Threats are illogical. And payment is usually expensive.

[Corridor]
JOSEPH: Security to Captain Kirk.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Kirk here.
JOSEPH (voiceover): Lieutenant Joseph, sir. I'm on deck eleven, section A3. I've just found one of the Tellarites murdered. I think it's the ambassador himself, sir.

[Corridor]
KIRK: How was he killed?
MCCOY: His neck was broken. By an expert.
KIRK: Explain.
MCCOY: Well, from the nature and location of the break, I'd say the killer knew exactly where to apply pressure to snap the neck instantly.
KIRK: Who aboard would have that knowledge?
SPOCK: Vulcans. On Vulcan, the method is called tal-shaya. It was considered a merciful form of execution in ancient times.
KIRK: Spock. A short time ago, I broke up an argument between Gav and your father.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain? Interesting.
MCCOY: Interesting? Spock, do you realize that makes your father the most likely suspect?
SPOCK: Vulcans do not approve of violence.
KIRK: You're saying he couldn't have done it?
SPOCK: No, Captain. I'm merely saying it would be illogical to kill without reason.
KIRK: But if he had a reason, could he have done it?
SPOCK: If there were a reason, my father is quite capable of killing. Logically and efficiently.

[Sarek's quarters]
KIRK: Mrs. Sarek, I'm sorry to disturb you. I must speak to your husband.
AMANDA: He's been gone for some time. It's his habit to meditate in private before retiring. What's wrong? Spock?
SAREK: You want something of me, Captain?
KIRK: Ambassador, the Tellarite. Gav has been murdered.
MCCOY: His neck was broken, Mister Ambassador, by what Spock describes as tal-shaya.
SAREK: Indeed? Interesting.
KIRK: Yes. Ambassador, where were you during the past hour?
AMANDA: Captain, you're not accusing him?
SPOCK: Mother. If only on circumstantial evidence, he is a logical suspect.
SAREK: I quite agree.
KIRK: Then where were you during the hour?
SAREK: In private meditation, Captain. Spock will tell you that such meditation is a personal experience, not to be diskussed. especially not with Earthmen.
KIRK: That's a very convenient excuse, Ambassador.
AMANDA: Sarek. Sarek. What's wrong?
MCCOY: It's difficult to say with Vulcan physiology, but I believe it's something to do with his cardiovascular system.
KIRK: Can you help him?
MCCOY: I don't know that yet either.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. I get sensor readings of tri-tritanium from the alien ship's hull.
KIRK: I'm sorry about your father.
SPOCK: Yes, it could adversely affect our mission.
KIRK: Aren't you worried about him?
SPOCK: Worry is a human emotion, Captain. I accept what has happened. The ship's hull seems to have a high density level or is cloaked against sensor probes. It is manned, but sensors cannot make out specifics.
KIRK: I see. Well, the Romulans have nothing like it. Certainly not the Federation or the neutral planets. What about the Klingons?
SPOCK: I think it unlikely it is one of theirs.
KIRK: Who, then?
UHURA: Captain? I picked up the last part of a transmission. Just like that other one. I put the recorder and the directional locator on it immediately.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, directional locator indicates source bearing twenty seven, mark eight.
CHEKOV: It's the intruder ship, sir.
KIRK: Switch recorder to Mister Spock's station for decode, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Sir, the directional locator indicates reception point somewhere within the body of this ship.
KIRK: A personal receiver? Somebody on board is in contact with that vessel?
SPOCK: Possibly, Captain. But I cannot decode this transmission.
KIRK: Why not?
SPOCK: It is in no known code. There's no detectable pattern. No standard references apply.
KIRK: Are any conclusions possible from the information?
SPOCK: Only negative. It fits none of our computer records, and it is alien.
KIRK: Murder? Someone out there playing tag? Lieutenant, you've got your sensor locator on a wide beam. You've established a receiver on board this vessel. Tighten your field to the interior of the ship.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: If that alien vessel starts transmitting again, I want to know who on board the Enterprise is receiving.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Bones, how is he?
MCCOY: As far as I can tell from instrument readings, our prime suspect has a malfunction in one of the heart valve. It's similar to a heart attack in a human. But with Vulcan physiology, it's impossible to tell without an operation. Mrs. Sarek, has he had any previous attacks?
AMANDA: No.
SAREK: Yes. There were three others. My physician prescribed Benjisidrine for the condition.
AMANDA: Why didn't you tell me?
SAREK: There was nothing you could have done.
KIRK: Ambassador, when did you have these attacks?
SAREK: Two before we left Vulcan, the third a few hours ago. I was on the observation deck. When the Tellarite was murdered, I was quite incapacitated.
KIRK: There were no witnesses?
SAREK: None.
SPOCK: Doctor, do you propose surgery for the heart defect?
MCCOY: I'm not sure. It's tough enough on a human. On a Vulcan, an ordinary operation's out of the question.
KIRK: Why?
SAREK: Because of the construction of the Vulcan heart.
SPOCK: I suggest that a cryogenic open-heart procedure would be the logical approach.
SAREK: Yes, unquestionably.
KIRK: Bones, what about it?
MCCOY: Well, I'm glad somebody's asking me something around here. Well, the procedure they're diskussing would require tremendous amounts of blood for the patient.
CHAPEL: Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes.
CHAPEL: I've checked the blood bank. There isn't enough Vulcan blood and plasma to even begin such an operation of this type.
KIRK: There are other Vulcans aboard.
SAREK: My blood type is T-negative. Somewhat rare, even for a Vulcan.
MCCOY: Yes, I'd say that's rare.
SPOCK: My blood is T-negative, Doctor.
CHAPEL: We've run a number of blood tests on Mister Spock. It isn't true Vulcan blood either. It has human blood elements in it.
SPOCK: It should be possible to filter out the human factors.
MCCOY: Even you couldn't give that much blood, Spock. It would kill you.
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY: Mrs. Sarek, you must understand the chances are extremely small to find a way to produce sufficient T-negative blood.
SPOCK: Indeed. I would estimate the odds
AMANDA: Please don't.

[McCoy's office]
SPOCK: Doctor.
MCCOY: I see it, Spock, but that was a Rigelian.
SPOCK: Rigelian physiology is very similar to Vulcan.
MCCOY: Similar is not good enough. It's still experimental.
SPOCK: But it does look promising.
MCCOY: Spock, we would need such great amounts of blood that, even if the drug worked on the Vulcans as well as a Rigelian, which I'm doubtful, it would still drain Sarek to a critical level.
SPOCK: I consider the safety factor low, but acceptable.
MCCOY: Plus the fact I've never operated on a Vulcan before. Oh, I've studied the anatomical types. I know where all the organs are. But that's a lot different from actual surgical experience. So if I don't kill him with the operation, the drug probably will.
AMANDA: What drug, Doctor? My husband is asleep. What drug?
MCCOY: A chemical stimulant to speed up reproduction and replacement of blood in the body. It's only experimental.
SPOCK: It has been used successfully on test subjects on Rigel Five.
MCCOY: It places a tremendous strain on the spleen and the liver. In Sarek's condition, the stimulant would kill him.
SPOCK: Miss Chapel? I underwent a physical examination last week. Would you pull those records, please?
CHAPEL: Already pulled. You're perfectly healthy, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: What has that got
AMANDA: You're going to use it on yourself. A transfusion from you to your father.
SPOCK: It would seem the only answer.
MCCOY: It could damage you internally. It could kill you. I'm sorry, Spock. I can't sanction it.
AMANDA: And I refuse to permit it. I won't risk both of you.
SPOCK: Then you automatically condemn Sarek to death. And you, Doctor, have no logical alternative either. If you do not operate, Sarek will die. You now have the means to perform the operation. I am volunteering myself as the blood donor. I'll be at my station until you require me.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Bridge. Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here.

[Corridor]
KIRK: I'm on deck five, near my quarters. I've been attacked by an Andorian. Security. Security team.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain? Captain? Captain?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3843.4. First Officer Spock in temporary command. The captain has been critically wounded by one of the delegates to the Babel conference. The ship is on alert status. We are still being followed by the intruder vessel.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: It's a bad wound. Punctured left lung. A centimeter or so lower, it'd have gone through the heart.
SPOCK: I'll be in the brig questioning the Andorian prisoner.
CHAPEL: Doctor, the K2 factor is dropping.
MCCOY: Spock, your father is much worse. There's no longer a choice. I have to operate immediately. We can begin as soon as you're prepared.
SPOCK: No, Doctor.
MCCOY: What?
SPOCK: My first responsibility is to the ship. Our passengers' safety is by Starfleet order of first importance. We are being followed by an alien, possibly hostile, vessel. I cannot relinquish command under these circumstances.
MCCOY: You can turn command over to Scotty.
SPOCK: On what grounds, Doctor? Command requirements do not recognize personal privilege. I'll be in the brig interrogating the Andorian.

[Brig]
SHRAS: He is Thelev, a minor member of my staff. I know nothing of him except that he has served adequately.
SPOCK: He has been subjected to questioning under verifier scan and truth drug. He reveals nothing. I suggest his mind has been so conditioned as part of a preconceived plan.
SHRAS: My people are a violent race, but we've no quarrel with Captain Kirk.
SPOCK: Apparently Thelev did.
SHRAS: You suggest a plot. How could it profit us to harm the captain?
SPOCK: I do not know. There is no logic in Thelev's attack upon the captain. There is no logic in Gav's murder.
SHRAS: Perhaps you should forget logic and devote yourself to motivations of passion or gain. Those are reasons for murder.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Come in.
AMANDA: Spock, you must turn command over to somebody else.
SPOCK: Mother, when I was commissioned, I took an oath to carry out responsibilities which were clearly and exactly specified.
AMANDA: Any competent officer can command this ship. Only you can give your father the blood transfusions that he needs to live.
SPOCK: Any competent officer can command this ship under normal circumstances. The circumstances are not normal. We're carrying over one hundred valuable Federation passengers. We're being pursued by an alien ship. We're subject to possible attack. There has been murder and attempted murder on board. I cannot dismiss my duties.
AMANDA: Duty? Your duty is to your father.
SPOCK: I know, but this must take precedence. If I could give the transfusion without loss of time or efficiency, I would. Sarek understands my reason.
AMANDA: Well, I don't. It's not human. That's not a dirty word. You're human, too. Let that part of you come through. Your father's dying.
SPOCK: Mother, how can you have lived on Vulcan so long, married a Vulcan, raised a son on Vulcan, without understanding what it means to be a Vulcan?
AMANDA: If this is what it means, I don't want to know.
SPOCK: It means to adopt a philosophy, a way of life, which is logical and beneficial. We cannot disregard that philosophy merely for personal gain, no matter how important that gain might be.
AMANDA: Nothing is as important as your father's life.
SPOCK: Can you imagine what my father would say if I were to agree, if I were to give up command of this vessel, jeopardize hundreds of lives, risk interplanetary war, all for the life of one person?
AMANDA: When you were five years old and came home stiff-lipped, anguished, because the other boys tormented you saying that you weren't really Vulcan. I watched you, knowing that inside that the human part of you was crying and I cried, too. There must be some part of me in you, some part that I still can reach. If being Vulcan is more important to you, then you'll stand there speaking rules and regulations from Starfleet and Vulcan philosophy, and let your father die. And I'll hate you for the rest of my life.
SPOCK: Mother
AMANDA: Oh, go to him. Now. Please.
SPOCK: I cannot.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy?
KIRK: I'd like to get my hands on the guy with the sledgehammer.
CHAPEL: The one who hit you?
KIRK: No, the one inside my head. How long have I
MCCOY: Now let that be a lesson to you. Just lie there and be happy you're still alive.
KIRK: How's Sarek?
MCCOY: Not good. If I could only operate.
KIRK: What's stopping you? I thought you were all ready.
MCCOY: I was. When you became injured, Spock assumed command. He's going to stay there until you're back on your feet, even if it costs Sarek his life. Regulations.
KIRK: I can't damn him for his loyalty, for doing his duty, but I'm not going to let him commit patricide.
MCCOY: Jim, if you stand, you could start to bleed again.
KIRK: Bones, Sarek will die without that operation, and you can't operate without transfusions from Spock. I'll convince Spock I'm all right and order him to report here. As soon as he leaves the bridge, I'll turn command over to Scotty and report to my quarters. Will that fill your prescription?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: I'll take over, Mister Spock. You report to Sickbay with Doctor McCoy.
SPOCK: Captain, are you quite all right?
MCCOY: I've certified him physically fit, Mister Spock. Now since I have an operation to perform and both of us are required
KIRK: Get out, Spock. Chekov, what's the status of the intruder?
CHEKOV: No change, sir. Maintaining its distance.
KIRK: Any further transmissions, Lieutenant?
UHURA: None, sir.
KIRK: Call Mister Scott to the bridge.
CHEKOV: Captain, the alien vessel is moving closer.
KIRK: Belay that order. I'll stay here.
UHURA: Captain, I'm picking up the alien signal again, but it's coming from inside the Enterprise.
KIRK: Specific origin?
UHURA: From the brig, sir.
KIRK: Security? Security to the brig. Search the prisoner immediately.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Readings, Nurse.
CHAPEL: Mister Spock's blood reproduction rate is up over two hundred percent. Sarek's heartbeat has risen to three hundred and twenty four. Blood pressure ninety over forty, dropping.
MCCOY: I wish I knew whether that was good or bad. Initiate sterile field.
CHAPEL: Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Where do you think you're going?
SPOCK: I must see the captain.
MCCOY: My patients don't walk out in the middle of an operation.
SPOCK: The alien ship. I've just realized that if their power utilization curve is not the norm, it should be possible to identify them this way. Very important.
MCCOY: So is your father's life.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here.
JOSEPH (voiceover): Security here. We had to stun the Andorian. He had some sort of transceiver. It was hidden in his antenna.
CHEKOV: Captain, the alien ship has changed course and speed. Moving directly toward us at warp eight.
KIRK: Bring the prisoner to the bridge. Deflectors on. Red Alert. Phasers stand by to fire on my order.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Shields on. Phasers manned and ready, sir.
KIRK: Chekov, take over Spock's scanners.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Target, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Moving away. Turning now. He's coming around again.
KIRK: Fire as he passes, Ensign.
CHEKOV: A clean miss, sir.
KIRK: Report on his weaponry, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Sensors record standard phasers, sir.
KIRK: Standard phasers. Good. They may have more speed, but they're not giants.
UHURA: Captain, the intercoms are jammed. All the ambassadors are asking what's going on.
KIRK: Tell them to take a good guess, but clear that board, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: He's coming around again.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: One more like that, and I'm going to lose both these men.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Fire control locked into the computers, Captain.
KIRK: On my order, fire photon torpedoes two, four and six. Widest possible scatter.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
CHEKOV: Full spread missed, sir. They're moving too fast for us.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor, his heart's stopped.
MCCOY: Cardio-stimulate.
CHAPEL: The systems are off.
MCCOY: Then get me that old portable cardio-stimulator.
MCCOY: Call engineering and have sickbay systems put on priority.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Number four shield has buckled, sir.
KIRK: Auxiliary power.
CHEKOV: Switching over. Shields firming up. Number four is still weak, sir. If they hit us there again, it'll go altogether.
KIRK: Your friends out there are good. They'll have to destroy this ship to win.
THELEV: That was intended from the beginning, Captain.
KIRK: You're not Andorian. Who are you?
UHURA: Damage reports coming in, Captain. Every deck.
KIRK: Damage control procedures, all decks. That ship out there has phasers. At least our weapons are alike.
CHEKOV: Number two shield is gone.
KIRK: Engineering, this is the Captain. Cut power on port side except for phaser banks. At my signal, cut starboard power. Kirk out. Who are you?
THELEV: Find your own answers, Captain. You haven't long to live.
KIRK: You're a spy, surgically altered to pass as an Andorian. Planted in the ambassador's party to use terror and murder to disrupt us and prepare for this attack.
THELEV: Speculation, Captain.
KIRK: Engineering, cut power on starboard side. Maintain until further orders. Chekov.
THELEV: What are you doing?
KIRK: You speculate.
CHEKOV: We're starting to drift, sir. Shall I hold her on course?
KIRK: No. Stand by your phasers, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Phasers standing by. He's just hovering out there, sir.
KIRK: Looking us over. We're dead as far as he knows.
THELEV: You're baiting him. You're trying to lure him in.
CHEKOV: Here he comes. Range decreasing. Speed dropping close to sublight.
KIRK: Hold your fire, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Phasers locked on target. Range closing. Seventy five thousand kilometers.
KIRK: Fire.
CHEKOV: Got him!
KIRK: Secure from general quarters. Lieutenant, open the hailing frequency. If they wish to surrender
THELEV: They could not surrender, Captain. They had orders to self-destruct.
KIRK: Lieutenant, relay to Starfleet command. Tell them we have a prisoner.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
THELEV: Only temporarily, Captain. You see, I had orders to self-destruct, too. Slow poison. Quite painless, actually, but there's no known antidote. I anticipate another ten minutes of life.
KIRK: Take him to Sickbay.
THELEV: I seem to have miscalculated.
KIRK: So did they. Mister Chekov, take over.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: Are you quite through shaking the ship around?
KIRK: Spock, Sarek how are they?
MCCOY: I don't mind telling you, you sure make it difficult for a surgeon trying
KIRK: Bones!
AMANDA: Captain, come in.
MCCOY: That pig-headed Vulcan stamina. I couldn't have pulled them through without it.
KIRK: Some doctors have all the luck.
SPOCK: Captain, I believe you'll find the alien
KIRK: We damaged their ship. They destroyed themselves to avoid capture. Bones, Thelev's body will be brought to your lab. I want an autopsy performed as soon as possible.
SPOCK: I think you'll find he's an Orion, Doctor.
MCCOY: Orion?
SPOCK: Intelligence reports that Orion smugglers have been raiding the Coridan system.
KIRK: But what would they gain by an attack on Starfleet?
SAREK: Mutual suspicion and interplanetary war.
KIRK: Yes, of course. With Orion carefully neutral, they'd clean up supplying dilithium to both sides and continue to raid Coridan.
SPOCK: The thing that confused me was the power utilization curve. It made them seem more powerful than a starship or anything known to us. That ship was constructed for a suicide mission. Since they never intended to return to their home base, they could use one hundred percent power on their attacks. The thing I don't understand is why I didn't think of it earlier.
KIRK: You might have had something else on your mind.
SPOCK: That hardly seems likely.
KIRK: No, but thank you anyway.
AMANDA: And you, Sarek. Would you also say thank you to your son?
SAREK: I don't understand.
AMANDA: For saving your life.
SAREK: Spock acted in the only logical manner open to him. One does not thank logic, Amanda.
AMANDA: Logic, logic! I'm sick to death of logic. Do you want to know how I feel about your logic?
SPOCK: Emotional, isn't she?
SAREK: She has always been that way.
SPOCK: Indeed? Why did you marry her?
SAREK: At the time, it seemed the logical thing to do.
KIRK: Bones. No, no, I'm all right
MCCOY: If you keep arguing with your kindly family doctor, you're going to spend your next ten days right here. If you co-operate, you'll be out in two.
SPOCK: Doctor, I'll return to my station now.
MCCOY: You are at your station, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, I believe you're enjoying all this.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. I've never seen him look so happy.
MCCOY: Shut up. Shh. Shh! Well, what do you know? I finally got the last word.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Yes, Jim.
KIRK (voiceover): How much longer, McCoy?
MCCOY: Oh, about another thirty minutes. I've come across some most interesting organic compounds. Hey, Starfleet was right.

[Rocky outcrop]
MCCOY (voiceover): These roots and soil cultures can be a medical treasure house. Any problems there?
KIRK: No sign of the inhabitants so far. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Large prints. The ape-like carnivore in the reports?
KIRK: Yes, the mugato. No problem, though. Those prints are several days old. They seldom stay in one place.
SPOCK: Aside from that, you say it's a Garden of Eden?
KIRK: Or so it seemed to the brash young Lieutenant Kirk on his first planet survey.
SPOCK: Class M in all respects. Quite Earth-like.
KIRK: Except these people stayed in their Garden of Eden. Bows and arrows for hunting, but absolutely no fighting among themselves. Remarkably peaceful and tranquil.
VOICE (voiceover): Ho! Take cover here!
SPOCK: Bows and arrows, Captain?
KIRK: Villagers with flintlocks? That's impossible. They hadn't progressed nearly that far.
SPOCK: Captain, look.
KIRK: One of those men walking into ambush is Tiree. The friend I lived with here.
SPOCK: Captain, use of our phasers is expressly forbidden.
TYREE: Villagers!

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Enterprise, alert! Stand by to beam up landing party.
KIRK: Spock? Your phaser.
SPOCK: No, Captain. I can travel.
KIRK: Beam us up, quickly.
MCCOY: Now, Scotty. Have medics stand by.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: What happened, Captain?
KIRK: Lead projectile. Primitive firearm.
M'BENGA: Vitalizer B.
MCCOY: Pressure packet. Lucky his heart's where his liver should be, or he'd be dead now.
M'BENGA: Not good, sir.
MCCOY: Coranalin.
KIRK: Bones, can you save him?
UHURA (voiceover): All decks, Red Alert! Battle stations, battle stations! Go to Red Alert!
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): Uhura, sir. We have a Klingon vessel on our screen.
KIRK: On my way. Scotty. Bones?
MCCOY: I don't know yet, Jim.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Captain, we're holding the planet between us and the Klingons. I don't think they've spotted us.
UHURA: Make that definite, sir. They're sending a routine message to their home base with no mention of us.
KIRK: Good. Go to Yellow Alert.
UHURA: Yellow Alert. All stations go to Yellow Alert.
KIRK: Do you think you can keep us out of their sight, Chekov?
CHEKOV: I can try, Captain.
UHURA: Message to Starbase, sir?
KIRK: No point in giving ourselves away, Lieutenant. Not until we find out what's going on.
SCOTT: We can hide for a while, sir, but we may have to go out of orbit to keep it up for long.
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here. I'll call you soon as I know anything. Sickbay out.
KIRK: So, they've broken the treaty.
SCOTT: Not necessarily, Captain. They have as much right to scientific missions here as we have.
KIRK: Research is not the Klingon way.
SCOTT: True, but since this is a hands-off planet, how are you going to prove they're doing otherwise?
KIRK: When I left there thirteen years ago, those villagers had barely learned to forge iron. Spock was shot with a flintlock. How many centuries between those two developments?
UHURA: On Earth, about twelve, sir.
SCOTT: On the other hand, a flintlock would be the first firearm the inhabitants would normally develop.
KIRK: Yes, I'm aware of that, Mister Scott.
CHEKOV: And, sir, the fact Earth took twelve centuries doesn't mean they had to.
UHURA: We've seen different development at rates on different planets.
SCOTT: And were the Klingons behind it, why didn't they give them breechloaders?
CHEKOV: Or machine guns?
UHURA: Or old-style hand lasers?
KIRK: I did not invite a debate. I'm sorry. I'm worried about Spock and concerned about what's happened to something I once knew down there. You have the conn, Scotty. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
M'BENGA: We've no replacements for the damaged organs, sir. If he's going to live, his Vulcan physiology will have to do it for him.
MCCOY: Agreed. Sterilite off.
CHAPEL: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: He'll live or die now, Jim. I don't know which. Doctor M'Benga interned on a Vulcan ward. He couldn't be in better hands.
KIRK: Then you and I are transporting down.
MCCOY: I can't leave Spock at this time.
KIRK: You just indicated you could. There are Klingons here. If their mission is a legitimate research interest in the planet's organic potential, then you're the one man who can tell me.
MCCOY: And if that's not it?
KIRK: Then I need help. Advice I can trust as much as Spock's.
MCCOY: I appreciate the compliment, Jim, but
KIRK: Bones, I'm as worried about Spock as you are, but if the Klingons are breaking the treaty it could be interstellar war. Kirk to Bridge.
SCOTT (voiceover): Bridge, Scott here.
KIRK: McCoy and I are transporting back down. Inform ship's stores that we'll need native costumes.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, we may have to break out of orbit any minute to keep out of their sight. We'd be out of communicator range with you.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: I understand. We'll arrange a rendezvous schedule. Kirk out.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4211.4. Keeping our presence here secret is an enormous tactical advantage, therefore I cannot risk contact with Starfleet Command. I must take action on my own judgment. I've elected to violate orders and make contact with planet inhabitants.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Perfect. Tiree's camp's a quarter of a mile away.
MCCOY: Want to think about it again, Jim? Starfleet's orders about this planet state no interference with
KIRK: No interference with normal social development. I'm not only aware of it, it was my survey thirteen years ago that recommended it.
MCCOY: I read it. Inhabitants superior in many ways to humans. Left alone, they undoubtedly someday will develop a remarkably advanced and peaceful culture.
KIRK: Indeed. And I intend to see that they have that chance. You coming with me?
MCCOY: Do I have a choice?
KIRK: Contact ship. Took full poison. Fangs.
MCCOY: Enterprise, McCoy. Emergency. Come in. Enterprise, come in. McCoy! Emergency!
KIRK: They left. Out of orbit.
MCCOY: Jim, there is no antitoxin for this poison. I can only keep you alive a few hours with this.
KIRK: Tiree. Some of his men. Cure.
MCCOY: Are you hill people? Do you know a hunter named Tiree? A mugato attacked him. He's James Kirk. He's a friend of Tiree's. Blast it! Do something! He's dying! {Tiree's camp]
YUTAN: Take him to the cave. I bring Tiree.

[Cave]
MCCOY (voiceover): Medical log, stardate 4211.8. Kirk is right about the people here. Despite their fear and our strangeness, they're compassionate and gentle. I've learned the hunter Tiree is now their leader. He is expected to return shortly with his wife, who they say knows how to cure this poison. My problem. The captain is in deep shock. I must keep him warm and alive until then.
MCCOY: You and your Garden of Eden.

[Hillside]
NONA: We must obtain the same firesticks, husband. You could be killing them instead. We could take their houses, their goods.
TYREE: Nona, enough. In time the villagers will return to their ways of friendship.
NONA: In time? They kill your people! I am a Kahn-ut-tu woman. In all this land, how many are there? Men seek us because through us they become great leaders.
TYREE: I took you because you cast a spell upon me.
NONA: And I have spells that help me keep you. Remember this leaf? The night we camped by the water?
TYREE: The night of madness.
NONA: Oh, Tiree, did you really hate that madness?
TYREE: No, Nona. No! It brought up evil beasts from my soul.
NONA: Only one lovely beast, Tiree, my huge, angry man.
YUTAN: Forgive me.
NONA: What is it?
YUTAN: There are strangers in our camp. One has taken the mugato bite. He dies.
NONA: Strangers?
YUTAN: It is said the dying one is a friend of Tiree, from long ago.
NONA: That one. Bring him when his head clears.

[Tiree's camp]
NONA: The stranger, where is he?

[Tiree's camp]
TYREE: Nona, where's Kirk? The cave?
NONA: Tiree, you wish me to save him?
TYREE: You must. He is the one I told you of. The friend of my younger days.
NONA: My remedies require I know what kind of man he is. All that is known of him.
TYREE: I gave him my promise of silence. He was made my brother.
NONA: And I am your wife, his sister. I promise silence also.
TYREE: Nona
NONA: Quickly! Or he dies.

[Sickbay]
M'BENGA: Don't let these low panel readings bother you. I've seen this before in Vulcans. It's their way of concentrating all their strength, blood, and antibodies onto the injured organs. A form of self-induced hypnosis.
CHAPEL: You mean he's conscious?
M'BENGA: Well, in a sense. He knows we're here and what we're saying, but he can't afford to take his mind from the tissue he's fighting to heal. I suppose he even knows you were holding his hand.
CHAPEL: A good nurse always treats her patients that way. It proves she's interested.

[Cave]
TYREE: I am Tiree.
NONA: And I'm Tiree's woman.
TYREE: It is Kirk. She will cure him.
MCCOY: What's that?
NONA: A mahko root.
MCCOY: A plant? It moves.
NONA: For those who know where to find it, how to use it, how to pick it.
NONA: Take this of my soul. This of my soul. Thine own. Into thine. Deeply. Together. Your pain is mine. All mine. Your soul and mine, together! Return. It is past. Return. Return!
KIRK: Bones. I had the strangest dream.
MCCOY: How do you feel, Jim?
KIRK: Tired. Very tired. You did a fine job, Bones. I think I'll sleep.
MCCOY: I want to thank you for saving his life. I would like to learn more about this.
NONA: Our blood has passed through the mahko root together. Our souls have been together. He is mine now.
TYREE: She must sleep also.
MCCOY: He is hers?
TYREE: When a man and woman are joined in this manner, he can refuse her no wish. But it is only legend.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Bones. What are you doing here? Tiree. My old friend.
TYREE: Yes, James! James, it's good to see you.
KIRK: What am I doing here? A mugato bite! I remember. I told him to take me to Tiree's camp. I knew you'd find a kahn-ut-tu to cure me. The kahn-ut-tu is the local witch people here. They've studied They've studied the roots and the herbs.
NONA: I am a kahn-ut-tu, Captain. I cured you.
TYREE: My wife, Nona.
KIRK: Yes, of course. I should've guessed. Congratulations. Tiree, we must talk now. The villagers, their new weapons. I want to hear all about that. We must make plans.
NONA: Good. It is past time to plan.
TYREE: Much has happened since you left, James. Come, we'll speak of it.
NONA: And of things to be done.
TYREE: Come. We will speak of it.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: The readings are beginning to fluctuate.
M'BENGA: Just as they should. This is Doctor M'Benga. There will be someone with you constantly now. When the time comes, I'll be called. As soon as he shows any signs of consciousness, call me immediately.
CHAPEL: Yes, Doctor.
M'BENGA: After you've called me, if he speaks, do whatever he says.
CHAPEL: Do whatever he says?
M'BENGA: Yes. That's clear enough, isn't it?

[Cave]
TYREE: The firesticks first appeared nearly a year ago. Since that time, many of my people have died.
KIRK: You say they make the firesticks themselves? How can you be sure?
TYREE: I've looked into their village. I have seen it being done.
MCCOY: Have you seen any strangers among the villagers?
TYREE: Strangers? No.
KIRK: Can you take us to their village while it's still dark?
TYREE: Yes, but the mugatos travel at night also. You killed one. Its mate will not be far.
KIRK: You've seen how these work.
NONA: I've seen them also, and I know you have many ways to make your friend Tiree a man of great importance.
MCCOY: Many ways? What else does she know about us?
NONA: Tiree has told me much of you. Do not blame him. It was the price for saving your life.
KIRK: We're simply strangers from
NONA: From one of the lights in the sky, and you have ways as far above firesticks as the sky above our world.
TYREE: You will not speak of this to others.
NONA: I will not if I am made to understand. Teach me. There's an old custom among my people. When a woman saves a man's life, he is grateful.
KIRK: I am grateful.
MCCOY: A splendid custom if not carried to extremes.
KIRK: We once were as you are, Spears, arrows. There came a time when our weapons grew faster than our wisdom, and we almost destroyed ourselves. We learned from this to make a rule during all our travels, Never to cause the same to happen to other worlds. Just as a man must grow in his own way and in his own time.
NONA: Some men never grow.
KIRK: Perhaps not as fast or in the way another thinks he should. But we're wise enough to know that we are wise enough not to interfere with the way of a man or another world.
NONA: You must let the villagers destroy us? You will not help your friend and brother kill them instead?
TYREE: No! I said I will not kill!
NONA: We must fight or die! Is dying better? You would let him die when you have weapons to make him powerful and safe? Then he has the wrong friends. And I have the wrong husband.
TYREE: You will help in ways she does not understand. I have faith in our friendship, James. Come, before we lose the darkness.
MCCOY: What's bothering you, Jim? If we find the Klingons have helped the villagers, there's certainly something we can do.
KIRK: That's what's bothering me. The something we may have to do.

[Village]
TYREE: The guard. We must wait.
KIRK: Tiree, supposing you had to fight? What then?
MCCOY: Jim, this man believes in the same thing we believe in. That killing is stupid and useless.
KIRK: Tiree?
TYREE: Now. Come.
KIRK: The gun. Ammunition. Doctor.

[Building]
KRELL: You are late, my friend Apella.
APELLA: A quarrel by my people. A division of some skins and a hill woman taken this morning. It's hard to divide one woman.
KRELL: Give her to the man who killed the most of her people. The others will see the profit in bravery. I'll make a Klingon of you yet. Your next improvement. Notice what we've done to the striker. See how it holds the priming powder more securely? Fewer misfires. When I return, we will give you other improvements. A rifled barrel.
APELLA: What?
KRELL: A way to shoot further and straighter.

[Village]
MCCOY: Jim. Coal for forge, sulfur for gun powder.
KIRK: Let's take a look inside.

[Forge]
KIRK: Well, here's your forge. People's exhibit number one. A chrome steel drill point.
MCCOY: This pig iron is almost carbon-free. That village furnace certainly didn't produce it. People's exhibit number two. Cold-rolled gun barrel rod fashioned to look homemade. You were right about the Klingons, Jim.
KIRK: Make recorder and scanner tapes of everything.
MCCOY: Right. It's a pity we can't include a live Klingon. That'd just about wrap it
APELLA (voiceover): Is it difficult to cut grooves into the barrels?
KRELL (voiceover): It's quite simple. I'll show you.
APELLA: I thought my people would grow tired of killing. But you were right. They see that it is easier than trading and it has pleasures. I feel it myself. Like the hunt, but with richer rewards.
KRELL: You will be rich one day, Apella, beyond your dreams. The leader of a whole world. A governor in the Klingon Empire.
KIRK: Bones!

[Village]
KRELL (voiceover): Guards! Intruders!
KIRK: Move! Fast!

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Nurse.
CHAPEL: Yes?
SPOCK: Hit me. The pain will help me to consciousness. Hit me.
CHAPEL: Hit you? No! I can't
SPOCK: Blast you, strike me! If I don't regain consciousness soon, it may be too late. Hit me. Harder!
SPOCK: Again. Continue. The pain will help me to consciousness.
SCOTT: What are you doing, woman?
CHAPEL: Leave me alone!
SCOTT: Have you gone daft?
CHAPEL: Mister Spock needs me! Let go!
SPOCK: That will be quite enough. Thank you, doctor.
M'BENGA: Please, release her.
SCOTT: What's this all about?
SPOCK: She was doing as I requested, Mister Scott. A Vulcan form of self-healing.
M'BENGA: As you saw, they must wait until the last possible moment then fight their way back to consciousness.
CHAPEL: Here, let me help you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Thank you, nurse. I'm quite fully recovered.
CHAPEL: Yes, I see you are.

[Tiree's camp]
KIRK: Men, this is the pan. This is the hammer. The hammer striking the pan causes a spark, ignites the powder, and fires the flintlock. Now aim it as I showed you. Hold your breath and squeeze the trigger gently. Well done. Very, very, very good.
MCCOY: Jim, I want to talk to you.
KIRK: Not here, Bones. In the cave. Yutan, your turn.

[Cave]
MCCOY: Do I have to say it? It's not bad enough there's one serpent in Eden teaching one side about gun powder. You want to make sure they all know about it!
KIRK: Exactly. Each side receives the same knowledge and the same type of firearm.
MCCOY: Have you gone out of your mind? Yes, maybe you have. Tiree's wife, she said there was something in that root. She said now you can refuse her nothing.
KIRK: Superstition.
MCCOY: Is it a coincidence this is exactly what she wants?
KIRK: Is it? She wants superior weapons. That's the one thing neither side can have. Bones. Bones, the normal development of this planet was the status quo between the hill people and the villagers. The Klingons changed that with the flintlocks. If this planet is to develop the way it should, we must equalize both sides again.
MCCOY: Jim, that means you're condemning this whole planet to a war that may never end. It could go on for year after year, massacre after massacre.
KIRK: All right, Doctor! All right. Say I'm wrong. Say I'm drugged. Say the woman drugged me. What is your sober, sensible solution to all this?
MCCOY: I don't have a solution. But furnishing them firearms is certainly not the answer.
KIRK: Bones, do you remember the twentieth century brush wars on the Asian continent? Two giant powers involved, much like the Klingons and ourselves. Neither side felt could pull out.
MCCOY: Yes, I remember. It went on bloody year after bloody year.
KIRK: What would you have suggested, that one side arm its friends with an overpowering weapon? Mankind would never have lived to travel space if they had. No. The only solution is what happened back then. Balance of power.
MCCOY: And if the Klingons give their side even more?
KIRK: Then we arm our side with exactly that much more. A balance of power. The trickiest, most difficult, dirtiest game of them all, but the only one that preserves both sides.
MCCOY: And what about your friend Tiree? Will he understand this balance of power?
KIRK: No. Probably not. But I'm going to have to try and make him understand. I never had a more difficult task.
MCCOY: Well, Jim, here's another morsel of agony for you. Since Tiree won't fight, he will be one of the first to die.
KIRK: Well, war isn't a good life, but it's life. His wife is the only way to reach him. If I tell her we're going to supply guns, maybe she'll convince him.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Position, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Entering distant orbit, sir. Approaching rendezvous time.
SPOCK: The Klingons?
CHEKOV: They haven't spotted us yet, sir. Looks like they're beaming someone aboard.
SPOCK: Stand by to signal the captain.
UHURA: Aye, sir.

[Countryside]
KIRK: Nona. Pardon me.
NONA: You are here because I wished you here.
KIRK: Oh? I thought it was my idea.
NONA: Yes. They always believe they come of free will. Tiree thought the same when I cast my first spell on him.
KIRK: Nona
NONA: Can you smell this fragrance? Some find it pleasing.
KIRK: I'd like to talk to you.
NONA: Again. Some find it soothing. Yes.
KIRK: I would like
NONA: Happy. Yes. You feel good.
KIRK: I feel dizzy. Yes, you are lovely. You're beautiful.
NONA: Kiss me.

[Tiree's camp]
MCCOY: Where's Captain Kirk? Tiree, the firestick. Where is it?
TYREE: There! I left it there.
MCCOY: That's a fine thing to leave lying around. Show us where it is.

[Countryside]
TYREE: I do not want it.
MCCOY: Jim? Jim. Who hit you?
KIRK: Nona.

[Hillside]
NONA: I bring you victory for Apella! )
MAN 1: Tiree's woman.
MAN 2: She's a Kahn-ut-tu.
MAN 1: We won't trust this division to Apella.
NONA: Take me to him. He will have the strength to use this new weapon.
NONA: Touch me again, and this small box will kill you. (They don't believe her, and all four men struggle with her.

[Countryside]
KIRK: No, no. I'm all right. My phaser. She took it.

[Hillside]
NONA: This weapon I bring you is far greater than your firesticks.
TYREE: Nona!
MAN 4: Hill people!
MAN 1: It's a trap. The woman's tricked us.
MCCOY: She's dead.
TYREE: I want more of these, Kirk. Many more! Yutan, two of those who killed my wife have escaped. Track them down. I will kill them.
MCCOY: Here.
KIRK: Tomorrow in the palm of her hands.
MCCOY: Well, you got what you wanted.
KIRK: Not what I wanted, Bones. What had to be. Kirk here. SPOCK [OC] Spock, Captain. I trust all has gone well.
MCCOY: Spock, are you alive?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: An illogical question, Doctor, since obviously you are hearing my voice.

[Hillside]
MCCOY: Well, I don't know why I was worried. You can't kill a computer.
KIRK: Spock, ask Scotty how long it would take him to reproduce a hundred flintlocks.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I didn't get that exactly, Captain. A hundred what?

[Hillside]
KIRK: A hundred serpents. Serpents for the Garden of Eden. We're very tired, Mister Spock. Beam us up home.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3211.7. We are entering standard orbit about Gamma Two, an uninhabited planetoid with an automatic communications and astrogation station.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Ensign Chekov, Lieutenant Uhura, and I will beam down and make a routine check of its facilities.
CHEKOV: Standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Mind the store, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Acknowledged, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, let's go.
UHURA: Yes, sir.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energize, Scotty.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.

[Combat area]
CHEKOV: Captain. what happened?
KIRK: It must be a transporter malfunction.
CHEKOV: That was a rough trip.
KIRK: This isn't Gamma Two. Look at the color of that sky.
UHURA: This is the craziest landing pad I've ever seen.
KIRK: That's a trinary sun.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Chekov. they vanished. They got onto the transporter platform and they just vanished.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I presume you mean they vanished in a manner not consistent with the usual workings of the transporter, Mister Scott.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Aye, of course I mean that. You think I'd call if they just beamed down?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Have you reversed controls?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: I've made all the proper checks. There was nothing. There was no flash of light, nothing. They were gone.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Power surge?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Not down here. All the dials were right and the transporter was functioning perfectly.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Recheck your equipment, Mister Scott. I'll scan for them on the planet's surface. Spock out.

[Combat area]
CHEKOV: But Captain, if we're not on Gamma Two, then where are we?
KIRK: That's what I'd like to know. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Dead.
CHEKOV: Mine, too.
UHURA: Captain. Look.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Fire. Hand-to-hand.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3211.8. While beaming down from the Enterprise to inspect facilities on Gamma Two, the normal transporter sequence has been interrupted, and we find ourselves on a strange and hostile planet, surrounded by creatures belonging to races scattered all through the galaxy.

[Combat area]
GALT: Excellent, Captain Kirk. Although we expected strength and competitive spirit, we are greatly pleased.
KIRK: Either of you hurt?
UHURA: I don't think so, Captain.
CHEKOV: Nobody's hurt, Captain. Yet.
GALT: Admirable, Chekov. Admirable. You also, Uhura. Your spirit is as great as the captain's. I can see you all will prove invaluable here. I am Galt, Master Thrall of the planet Triskelion. I have been sent to welcome you.

[Cell]
GALT: There, Captain. Now you are prepared for your training.
KIRK: How do you know our names?
GALT: The Providers were expecting you, Captain. They arranged your transportation.
KIRK: These Providers of yours, are they
GALT: Correction, Captain. The Providers are not ours. We are theirs.
KIRK: What do they want from us?
GALT: You are to be trained, of course. What other use is there for thralls?
KIRK: Thralls? You must be mistaken. We're officers of a United spaceship on Federation business.
GALT: There has been no mistake. Your old titles mean nothing here, Captain. You are thralls now. You are to be taken to the training enclosure. Come. Places have been prepared for you.
KIRK: We're not going anywhere until we have some information. Who are you? What is this place? What do you think you're going to do with us?
GALT: I am Galt, the Master Thrall. This place is the planet Triskelion. You are to be trained and spend the rest of your lives here.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, I've checked that transporter from one end to the other. Every circuit works perfectly. Whatever that power surge was, it had nothing to do with the transporter or any other system aboard this ship.
SPOCK: I'm beginning to believe that, Mister Scott. I've conducted two sweeps of the planet's surface. There is no sign of life.
MCCOY: Then what the devil is happening? Does that mean their atoms are just floating around out there?
SPOCK: No, Doctor. Even that would show up on our sensors.
SCOTT: Where are they then?
SPOCK: The only answers are negative. No magnetic storms, no ionic interference, no breakdown in your equipment.
MCCOY: A negative attitude is no good to us. We can't just leave them out there, wherever they are.
SPOCK: We shall continue sensor scans, Doctor. At the moment, that is all we can do, except hope for a rational explanation.
MCCOY: Hope? I always thought that was a human failing, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: True, Doctor. Constant exposure does result in a certain degree of contamination.

[Accommodation block]
GALT: These are your quarters. Open, thralls.
GALT: That was foolish, Captain. Escape is quite impossible, as demonstrated by your collars of obedience. Return to your quarters.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: They are not within the confines of this solar system.
MCCOY: It's been nearly an hour. Can people live that long as disassembled atoms in a transporter beam?
SPOCK: I have never heard of a study being done, but it would be a fascinating project.
MCCOY: Fascinating? Those people are friends of ours out there, if they're still alive.
SPOCK: Precisely.
MCCOY: The odds are not good.
SPOCK: No. I would say approximately four hundred
MCCOY: Don't quote odds and don't give me anymore dispassionate logic, Mister Spock. Just keep looking for them.
SPOCK: I would welcome a suggestion, Doctor, even an emotional one, as to where to look.
MCCOY: First time you've ever asked me for anything, and it has to be an occasion like this.

[Accommodation block]
CHEKOV: Captain, the Enterprise. They will be trying to find us, won't they?
UHURA: They'll try, but where do they look? We're here, and we don't know where it is.
KIRK: This system's star is a trinary. Limits it a bit, but we're a long way from the Enterprise, if we're in the same dimension.
LARS: I am your drill thrall. I am called Lars.
KIRK: What do you want from her?
LARS: That is not your concern. Your drill thralls will attend you presently. There is little time.
UHURA (voiceover): What are you doing? Get out!
LARS (voiceover): I have been selected for you.
KIRK: Lieutenant, are you all right? Uhura! Lieutenant! Lieutenant, are you all right? Lieutenant, answer me! Lieutenant! What's happening to Lieutenant Uhura? Lieutenant, are you all right?
LARS: It is not allowed to refuse selection.
: Step away from the door. Come. It is the nourishment interval.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3259.2. First Officer Spock in command. The Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov have been missing for nearly two hours. Computer probability projections are useless due to insufficient data.
HAINES: Mister Spock, I'm getting a fluctuating energy reading on this hydrogen cloud. It's faint, sir, but it consistently reads an excess of predictable energy level.
SPOCK: Interesting. It seems to be an ionization trail.
MCCOY: What would account for that, Spock?
SPOCK: Exactly the question I have just fed to the computers, Doctor. And the answer is, nothing known to us would account for it.
SCOTT: Well, the transporter has neither the power nor the range to account for that.
SPOCK: Plot a follow course, Ensign Haines.
HAINES: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: You're going to leave here without them and run off on some wild goose chase halfway across the galaxy just because you found a diskrepancy in a hydrogen cloud?
SPOCK: Doctor, I am chasing the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov, not some wild aquatic fowl. This is the only lead we've had.
HAINES: Course plotted and laid in, Mister Spock. Three ten mark two four one.
SPOCK: Initiate. Warp factor two.

[Chekov's cell]
CHEKOV: You, you have been selected for me?
TAMOON: No. I am only your drill thrall. I have brought you nourishment. It is a nice name, Chee-koo.
CHEKOV: Chekov.
TAMOON: Chee-koof! It is a very nice name. I am called Tamoon.
CHEKOV: Oh, pleased, Pleased to know you, miss.
TAMOON: You are a fine specimen. I like you better than the others. I will instruct you well, so my Provider will take you.
CHEKOV: That's very kind of you, miss, but
TAMOON: If my Provider is pleased, we may even be selected for each other.

[Kirk's cell]
KIRK: I didn't realize I was so hungry. Whatever you call this, it is very good.
SHAHNA: It is nourishment. We call it that.
KIRK: Nourishment. That's very practical. What do you call this collar?
SHAHNA: It is a sign of our Provider. By the color of the lights it can be known who holds us. When you are vended, you will also have a color.
KIRK: Vended? You mean bought, sold.
SHAHNA: When you are developed. The Provider who offers the most quatloos puts his color on us.
KIRK: Our race has another name for it. Slavery. This collar of obedience, is Galt the only one who can operate it?
SHAHNA: It is only to warn and punish.
KIRK: How does he work it?
SHAHNA: It is not permitted to talk of that.
KIRK: Will you provide all my nourishment?
SHAHNA: Of course. I am your drill thrall. I will train you well.
KIRK: Yes, I'm sure you will. I must say, I've never seen a top sergeant who looked like you.
SHAHNA: What does that mean?
KIRK: It means you're a very beautiful woman.
SHAHNA: What is beautiful?
KIRK: You mean nobody's ever told you that before? well, er, beautiful is, Beautiful. That's beautiful. Shahna, where were you born?
SHAHNA: Born? I have been here always.
KIRK: Your parents. Where are they? Your mother and father.
SHAHNA: She who bore me was killed in a freestyle match.
KIRK: Freestyle?
SHAHNA: You will learn all these things.
KIRK: Lars and Chekov's drill thrall. They weren't born here. Where do they come from?
SHAHNA: It is not permitted. The exercise interval. This is your training harness. Put it on.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: This is ridiculous. There's nothing out there. Nothing at all.
SCOTT: We certainly seem to be heading into an empty sector.
SPOCK: Projecting back along the path of ionization, the nearest system is M two four alpha.
SCOTT: That must be two dozen light years away.
SPOCK: Eleven point six three zero.
MCCOY: Are you suggesting that they could have transported over a distance of? You're out of your Vulcan mind, Spock.
SPOCK: I'm suggesting nothing, Doctor. I am merely pursuing the only logical course available to us.

[Training area]
GALT: Hold. This thrall was slow in obeying a command. For his punishment, he will be practice target. As you charge, you will strike the practice target when you pass. You begin, Uhura.
UHURA: No!
GALT: It is not allowed to refuse a training exercise.
UHURA: I don't care whether it's allowed or not. I will not do it.
KIRK: None of us will do it, Galt.
GALT: It is part of your training. The Providers wish it.
KIRK: The devil with the Providers.
CHEKOV: Cossacks.
GALT: We have been tolerant because you are newcomers, but I see you must be given a lesson. Lars. Kloog. Kloog will administer correction. Uhura, take your place on the triad. Tie her.
KIRK: No. No! I am responsible for the actions of my people. I demand to see the Providers.
GALT: It is not permitted. But, Captain, since you assume responsibility for your people, you will take the punishment. It is less painful than the collar. Turn around. {Lars ties Kirk's hands.) Captain, you will be practice target. It is a shame to lose you, Captain, but it is worth it as an example to the others.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Stardate, unknown. Our strange captivity continues. This planet is called Triskelion. We do not know its location. We do not know who controls it. Its dangers are abundantly clear.

[Combat area]
GALT: Hold. Rest interval. Fifteen trisecs.
KIRK: He's pretty fast with that whip.
SHAHNA: This will strengthen you. Drink it. Kloog's left eye is weak. Approach him from that side.
GALT: Resume places.
ONE (voiceover): Hold.
GALT: We hold, Provider One.
ONE (voiceover): Provider One bids three hundred quatloos for the newcomers.
TWO (voiceover): Provider Two, three hundred and fifty quatloos.
THREE (voiceover): Provider Three, four hundred.
TWO (voiceover): One thousand quatloos.
THREE (voiceover): One thousand fifty quatloos.
ONE (voiceover): Two thousand.
GALT: Two thousand quatloos are bid. Is there a challenge? The newcomers have been vended to Provider One.
KIRK: We're free people. We belong to no one.
TWO (voiceover): Such spirit. I wager fifteen quatloos that he is untrainable.
THREE (voiceover): Twenty quatloos that all three are untrainable.
TWO (voiceover): Five thousand quatloos that the newcomers will have to be destroyed.
ONE (voiceover): Accepted. Mark them, Galt.
GALT: You now bear the mark of a fine herd. But I must warn you, any further disobedience now that you are full-fledged thralls will be punishable by death.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, it just doesn't make sense they could have come this far. If there's any chance at all it is to continue to search in the area they were lost.
SPOCK: We searched the area.
SCOTT: It's always possible to miss something.
SPOCK: Such as a failure in the transporter mechanism?
SCOTT: No, sir. There was no sign of failure.
SPOCK: There was no sign of them in the area of Gamma Two.
MCCOY: If they weren't there it's ridiculous to think they could still be alive. Not after all this time.
SPOCK: In that case, Doctor, we have nothing to lose by pursuing our present course.

[Ruins]
KIRK: Slow down. Slow down. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. We've covered over two miles. Can we take a breather? A rest?
SHAHNA: Oh. Very well. You are tired.
KIRK: Oh. well, it's good to get away from that development area, even for a while. Shahna, why do the Providers, why do they like to watch others being hurt, killed?
SHAHNA: That is the way.
KIRK: Their voices sound mechanical. Are they computers?
SHAHNA: Computers?
KIRK: You've seen them. Do they have bodies?
SHAHNA: Not such as ours.
KIRK: What is this place?
SHAHNA: It is not used.
KIRK: It's very old. Does it have a name? Shahna, could it have been a city for the Providers?
SHAHNA: I do not think it is well to ask such things.
KIRK: They do have bodies, or did have.
SHAHNA: One does not talk of such things.
KIRK: Very pretty country. Very much like my home planet, Earth.
SHAHNA: Planet?
KIRK: Where I was born. Shahna, don't you ever look at the night sky? The lights up there?
SHAHNA: I have looked at them.
KIRK: Well, those are stars. And around them are planets. And there are people that live on them, Just like us.
SHAHNA: How can one live on a flicker of light?
KIRK: From Earth, Triskelion's three suns are just a flicker of light. Actually, this is the darkest planet I've ever seen.
SHAHNA: Dark? But all is lighted. Here, the chambers.
KIRK: The thralls have no freedom, Shahna. You don't think or do anything but what the Providers tell you.
SHAHNA: What else would one do?
KIRK: Love, for one thing.
SHAHNA: What is love?
KIRK: Love is the most important thing on Earth. Especially to a man and a woman.
SHAHNA: We, too, have mates. When it is time to increase the herd, my Provider will select one for me.
KIRK: On Earth, we select our own mate. Someone we care for. On Earth, men and women live together, help each other, make each other happy.
SHAHNA: I do not think your words are allowed.
KIRK: All right. All right. Tell me about the Providers. What do they look like? Where do they live?
SHAHNA: I have never seen them, but they are said not to be like us. They stay in
KIRK: Stop it. Stop it! I'm responsible! I made her talk! Stop it! You're killing her! She did nothing wrong! It was my fault. If you want to punish someone, punish me! Please.
ONE (voiceover): Is that what you humans call compassion? It is interesting, but it has no value here. You present many interesting aspects, Captain, but you must learn obedience. Then you will be an excellent thrall.
KIRK: It's all right. It's all right. You can stop crying now, Shahna. It's all right.
SHAHNA: You risked bringing their anger on yourself. Why did you do it?
KIRK: It's the custom of my people to help one another when we're in trouble.
SHAHNA: And this. Is this also helping?
KIRK: You could call it that.
SHAHNA: Please, help me once again. I did not know it could be like this between people. Is it always so in the place you come from?
GALT: Captain, you do indeed present many surprises. Because you have amused the Providers, there will be no punishment. Return to your quarters.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, can we manage anything faster than warp six?
SCOTT: It's my opinion that we've gone too far as it is, sir.
MCCOY: He's right, Spock. We've lost Jim and the others on Gamma Two. Now you've dragged us a dozen light years on some wild hunch that
SPOCK: Doctor, I do not respond to hunches. No transporter malfunction was responsible for the disappearance. They were not within the Gamma system. A focused beam of extremely high-intensity light was directed into the Gamma system from the trinary system we are now approaching. No known natural phenomena could have caused that beam. Does that clarify the situation?
MCCOY: No, it doesn't. It's still a fancy way of saying that you're playing a hunch. well, my hunch is that they're back on Gamma Two dead or alive and I still want another search.
SCOTT: Doctor McCoy speaks for me, too, sir.
SPOCK: I see. Gentlemen, I am in command of this vessel, and we shall continue on our present course. Unless it is your intention to declare a mutiny.
SCOTT: Mister Spock!
MCCOY: Who said anything about a mutiny, you stubborn, pointed-eared. All right. If we don't find them here, do we still have another search on Gamma Two?
SPOCK: Agreed. Mister Scott, could you manage warp seven?
SCOTT: I would be more than content to do so, sir, and maybe a wee bit more.
SPOCK: Ensign, warp seven.

[Kirk's cell]
KIRK: You're disturbed about what happened today.
SHAHNA: Yes. You have made me feel strangely. If it were allowed, I would ask that you have another drill thrall.
KIRK: I wouldn't like that, Shahna. I wouldn't like that at all.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Shahna.

[Accommodation area]
CHEKOV: This is going to kill our romance.
KIRK: What about Lars?
UHURA: He's gone to report me. I said I didn't like the food.
KIRK: I think Galt is the only one who controls these collars. If we can find the phaser that I threw at Lars, we can use the circuits to short out these collars.
CHEKOV: Captain.

[Combat area]
ONE (voiceover): Only a reminder. You Earth people are most unusual, most stimulating.

[Bridge]
HAINES: Standard orbit.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate only one concentration of life forms on the planet, on the lower hemisphere. Humanoid readings.
MCCOY: Well, at least that gives our landing force a starting point.
SPOCK: There will be no landing force, Doctor. Assuming the captain and the others are still alive, it would be unwise to endanger them by beaming down a large contingent.
MCCOY: Well we're not going to leave them there while we just sit and wait.
SPOCK: Interesting. No power source. It may be shielded.
MCCOY: And it may be just a wild goose chase like we've been telling you.
SPOCK: I shall beam down, Doctor. If I am unable to communicate, a landing party may be necessary.
MCCOY: Well, Mister Spock, if you're going into the lion's den, you'll need a medical officer.
SPOCK: Daniel, as I recall, had only his faith. But I welcome your company, Doctor. Mister Scott, you'll be in command.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
ONE (voiceover): No, Mister Spock, you will not leave the ship.

[Combat area]
ONE (voiceover): None of your control systems will operate.
MCCOY (voiceover): What the devil's going on?
KIRK: Spock? Spock!

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Spock?

[Combat area]
KIRK: Welcome to Triskelion, gentlemen.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): By now it must be obvious to you that you have been expected.
SCOTT: What the voice said was true, sir. Nothing is functioning.
ONE (voiceover): Commendations, gentlemen. Your ingenuity in diskovering the whereabouts of your companions is noteworthy.
KIRK (voiceover): What you're hearing, gentlemen, is a Provider.
ONE (voiceover): We are known to the thralls as Providers because we provide for all their needs. The term is easier for their limited mental abilities to comprehend.

[Combat area]
KIRK: Providing for all their needs means using thralls, people stolen from other parts of the galaxy

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): To fight each other, and the Providers gamble on the winner.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK (voiceover): But these Providers haven't the courage to show themselves.
ONE (voiceover): Your species has great curiosity.

[Combat area]
ONE (voiceover): We knew that. You are interesting in many ways.
KIRK: But you are afraid.

[Bridge]
ONE (voiceover): You present no danger while you wear the collar

[Combat area]
ONE (voiceover): And you wear it as long as you live.
KIRK: Then show yourselves.
ONE (voiceover): There is no objection.

[Cavern]
KIRK: The power source. Shielded by solid rock.
ONE (voiceover): We are one thousand of your meters beneath the surface.
KIRK: Primary mental evolution. Incredible.
TWO (voiceover): That is not true, Captain. Once we had humanoid form, but we evolved beyond it.
THREE (voiceover): Through eons of devoting ourselves exclusively to intellectual pursuits, we became the physically simple, mentally superior creatures you see before you.
KIRK: A species that enslaves other beings is hardly superior, mentally or otherwise.
ONE (voiceover): The thralls are necessary to the games. We have found athletic competitions our only challenge, the only thing which furnishes us with purpose.
KIRK: It's an unproductive purpose, unworthy of your intellect.
ONE (voiceover): We use only inferior beings.
KIRK: We have found that all life forms in the galaxy are capable of superior development. Perhaps you're not as evolved as you believe.
THREE (voiceover): An interesting speculation, Captain. You and your people are most challenging.
TWO (voiceover): Yes, most challenging. It was hoped that such new blood would stimulate our stock of thralls. How unfortunate that you must be destroyed.
KIRK: Our destruction will result only in your own. You may control the Enterprise, but you cannot match the force of the entire Federation.
ONE (voiceover): Your ship will be destroyed by a magnetic storm. No communications with your base will be possible. Your fate will remain a mystery to your people.
KIRK: And you call yourselves superior! You're murderers without the spirit to really wager for the lives you take.
ONE (voiceover): Wager? Explain yourself, Captain.
KIRK: My people pride themselves on being the greatest, most successful gamblers in the universe. We compete for everything. Power, fame, women, everything we desire, and it is our nature to win. And for proof, I offer you our exploration of this galaxy.
THREE (voiceover): We are aware of your competitive abilities, Captain.
KIRK: Well, then, I wager that with weapons of your own choice, right here and now, my people can overcome an equal number of thralls set against us.
THREE (voiceover): A hundred quatloos on the newcomers.
ONE (voiceover): Four hundred quatloos against the newcomers.
TWO (voiceover): Two hundred quatloos against!
THREE (voiceover): Five hundred for the newcomers. Contest by multiple elimination.
KIRK: Wait! Wait! Hear me! We can't wager for trifles like quatloos. The stakes must be higher.
ONE (voiceover): Name your stakes, Captain.
KIRK: If we win, the Enterprise and its crew leaves here in safety. Further more, all the thralls on the planet must be freed.
TWO (voiceover): Anarchy. They would starve.
KIRK: You will educate and train them to establish a normal self-governing culture.
THREE (voiceover): Thralls govern themselves? Ridiculous!
KIRK: We have done the same with cultures throughout the galaxy. Are you willing to admit that we can do something you can't?
TWO (voiceover): There is nothing we cannot do!
ONE (voiceover): And if you lose, Captain?
KIRK: If we lose? We will remain here, the entire crew of the Enterprise. The most stubborn, determined competitors in the universe. We'll become thralls, enter your games, obey your orders without rebellion. You'll be assured of generations of the most exciting wagering you've ever had.
ONE (voiceover): Your stakes are indeed high, Captain.
KIRK: Not for true gamesters.
THREE (voiceover): We will accept your stakes on one condition.
KIRK: Name it.
ONE (voiceover): As leader of your people, your spirit seems most indomitable. We suggest you alone, pitted against three contestants of our choosing.
KIRK: Three against one? Those are pretty high odds.
TWO (voiceover): Not for true gamesters, Captain.
KIRK: Your, your terms are unfair.
ONE (voiceover): On the contrary, they're extremely fair, since your alternative is death.
KIRK: Well, in that case, I'll accept your terms.
ONE (voiceover): Galt will prepare you.

[Combat area]
ONE (voiceover): Because you wager your skill for all your people, they will be permitted to watch the outcome of the game on the ship's viewscreen.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, look!
ONE (voiceover): Captain, you will defend. Thralls must stay in the blue area. You will take the yellow. Touching an opposing color deprives a contestant of one weapon. An opponent must be killed to be removed from the game. If only wounded, he is replaced by a fresh thrall. Is that clear, Captain?

[Combat area]
KIRK: Yes, that's clear.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: What in the name of heaven is this?
SCOTT: Heaven's got very little to do with this.

[Combat area]
GALT: Shahna.
SHAHNA: You lied. Everything you said.
SHAHNA: The thralls surrender!
ONE (voiceover): You have won, Captain Kirk, unfortunately. However, the terms of the wager will be honored. You are free. Remove your collars.
KIRK: The thralls will be trained?
ONE (voiceover): They will be trained. We have said it.
KIRK: I think you'll find it a much more exciting game than the one you've been playing. I'm sorry, Shahna. I didn't lie. I did what was necessary. Someday, I hope you'll understand.
SHAHNA: I understand, a little. You will leave us now?
KIRK: Yes.
SHAHNA: To go back to the lights in the sky?
KIRK: Yes.
SHAHNA: I would like to go to those lights with you. Take me?
KIRK: I can't.
SHAHNA: Then teach me how, and I will follow you.
KIRK: There's so much you must learn here first. The Providers will teach you. Learn it, Shahna. all your people must learn before you can reach for the stars. Shahna. Scotty!
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Beam us up.
SHAHNA: Goodbye, Jim Kirk. I will learn, and watch the lights in the sky, and remember.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Our scanner survey was correct, Captain. There it is. Pure tritanium.
KIRK: Fantastic. 20 times as hard as diamond.
SPOCK: Twenty one point four times as hard, to be exact.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. Scotty, you can mark this vein as confirmed. Inform Starfleet I recommend that they dispatch a survey vessel immediately.
SCOTT (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain. They'll send one fast enough for this rich a find.
SPOCK: We won't be able to break it, Captain. I'll phaser off a specimen.
KIRK: Lesley.
KIRK: Do you smell that? A sweet odor like honey. It was years ago, on another planet. A thing with a an odor like that.
SPOCK: We're in the growing season in this hemisphere of this planet. There are doubtless many pollen aromas.
KIRK: Rizzo.
RIZZO: Yes, sir?
KIRK: Take your men. Make a swing around our perimeter. Scan for dikironium in the atmosphere. Set your phasers on disrupter-B. If you see any gaseous cloud, fire immediately. You're on Red Alert. Make a sweep.
SCOTT (voiceover): Ready to beam back aboard, Captain?
KIRK: Negative, Scotty. We're checking something out.
SCOTT (voiceover): The USS Yorktown is expecting to rendezvous with us in less than eight hours, Captain. That doesn't give us much time.
KIRK: Acknowledged. Continue standing by. Kirk out.
SPOCK: Captain, dikironium exists only in laboratory experiments.
KIRK: It's gone. I could have been wrong. The last time I caught an odor like that was eleven years ago.

[Clearing]
RIZZO: Seemed to read dikironium for a minute, and then I lost it. It's almost like something out there knows I'm scanning it. It kind of keeps changing itself into something different. That isn't possible. Nothing can do that.
RIZZO: Captain?

[Boulder]
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Clearing]
RIZZO: Captain.

[Boulder]
RIZZO (voiceover): There's a strange cloud, sir.

[Clearing]
RIZZO: Cloud, cloud.

[Boulder]
KIRK: Fire into it immediately!
RIZZO (voiceover): Help me. Help!

[Clearing]
KIRK: Spock. Dead. And you'll find every red corpuscle gone from their body.
SPOCK: Rizzo's alive, barely.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, lock in on us. Medical emergency.
SPOCK: You think you know what it was, Captain?
KIRK: Something that can't possibly exist, but it does.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3619.2. With the mysterious death of two crewmen, all personnel on the planet have been evacuated back to the ship.

[McCoy's office]
CHAPEL: Autopsy report, Doctor.
KIRK: How's Ensign Rizzo?
CHAPEL: Still unconscious, sir.
MCCOY: Transfusions?
CHAPEL: Continuing as rapidly as possible. His blood count is still sixty percent less than normal.
KIRK: Kirk to bridge.
SPOCK (screen): Spock here. Ready to leave orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Hold your position.
SCOTT (screen): Cutting in if I may, Captain. The USS Yorktown is expecting to rendezvous with us in less than seven hours.
KIRK: Then you'll inform them that we might be a little late.
MCCOY: Jim, the Yorktown's ship surgeon will want to know how late. Those vaccines he's transferring to us are highly perishable.
SPOCK (screen): Spock again, Captain. Those medical supplies are badly needed on planet Theta Seven. They are expecting us to get them there on time.
KIRK: Gentlemen, we are remaining in orbit until I find out more about those deaths, on my responsibility. I am perfectly aware that it might cost lives on Theta Seven. Kirk out. Autopsy report.
MCCOY: You saw their color. There wasn't a red corpuscle left in their bodies.
KIRK: Marks, cuts, incisions of any kind?
MCCOY: Not a one. What happened is medically impossible.
KIRK: I suggest you look at the record tapes of past similar occurrences. You'll find the USS Farragut lists casualties eleven years ago from exactly the same impossible causes.
MCCOY: Thank you, Captain. I'll check those tapes immediately.
KIRK: First, can you bring Ensign Rizzo to consciousness for a moment?
MCCOY: Yes, but it
KIRK: Will it hurt him if you do so?
MCCOY: In his present condition, I don't think it would make much difference.
KIRK: Then do so.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Transfusion completed, sir. His pulse and respiration are still far below normal.
MCCOY: Give him one cc of cordazine, nurse.
CHAPEL: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Rizzo. This is the captain. Can you hear me? Do you remember what happened to you?
RIZZO: Remember. I'm cold. I'm so cold.
KIRK: You were attacked by something. When it happened, did you notice an odor of any kind? Rizzo. Rizzo! Do you remember a sickly sweet odor? Did you smell it?
RIZZO: Yes. Yes. A smell. A strange smell. It was like being smothered in honey.
KIRK: Did you feel a presence, an intelligence?
RIZZO: It was trying to draw strength from us. I felt it. It was, it was, it was there.
MCCOY: He's beginning to sleep again. I can't risk another shot.
KIRK: He's already told me what I wanted to know.
MCCOY: I wouldn't depend too much what he says in that half-conscious state. He could be dreaming, saying what he thought you wanted to hear.
KIRK: You check those record tapes. I want your medical analysis as quickly as possible.
CHAPEL: What's with the captain? I've never seen him like that before.
MCCOY: I intend to find out. I'll be in the medical record library.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Oh, Captain. Subspace message from Starfleet. They're inquiring
KIRK: Not now. Have the security duty officer report to me immediately.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Continuing scanning. Still no readings of life forms on the planet.
KIRK: Let's assume that it's something so completely different that our sensors wouldn't identify it as a life form.
SPOCK: You mentioned dikironium, Captain.
KIRK: Suppose it was composed of that rare element. A strange, gaseous creature.
SPOCK: I've scanned for that element, Captain. There's no trace of dikironium on the planet surface or in the atmosphere.
KIRK: Suppose it camouflaged itself. Let's assume that it's intelligent, that it knows we're looking for it.
SPOCK: To hide from a sensor scan, it would have to be able to change its molecular structure, like gold changing itself to lead or wood changing itself to ivory.
KIRK: You've just suggested something that never occurred to me. It may provide some answers to a tape record which I think you'll find Doctor McCoy is looking at this very moment.
SPOCK: Chekov, take over on scanner.
GARROVICK: Ensign Garrovick reporting, sir.
KIRK: Are you the new security officer?
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Was your father
GARROVICK: Yes, sir, but I don't expect any special treatment on that account.
KIRK: You'll get none aboard this ship, Mister.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
UHURA: Captain, I have a report on Ensign Rizzo. He's dead, sir.
KIRK: You knew Rizzo?
GARROVICK: Yes, sir. We were good friends, graduated the Academy together.
KIRK: You'll get a crack at what killed him. Interested?
GARROVICK: Yes, I am, sir.
KIRK: I want four men armed with phaser two set for disrupter effect. Join me in the transporter room in five minutes. You'll accompany me to the planet surface.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
GARROVICK: Reading is changing, sir.
KIRK: Spock was right. Notice the molecular shift?
GARROVICK: Dikironium reading now, sir. Bearing ninety four mark seven, angle of elevation six degrees. Holding steady.
KIRK: Over that rise. Take two men, circle around to the left. I'll take the other two and go the other way. That creature is dangerous. If you see it, fire full phasers.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Swensen, Bardoli come with me.
KIRK: A phaser! Come on! Garrovick, did you?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3619.6. One of the men in critical condition, the other is dead. And I, I am now even more convinced that this is not only an intelligent creature, but the same which decimated the crew of the USS Farragut eleven years ago in another part of the galaxy. Both Spock and McCoy are doubtful of this, and I sense they also doubt my decision to stay and fight the thing. Why am I keeping the ship here?

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Mister Garrovick, we've studied your report. Mister Spock, begin.
SPOCK: What was the size of the thing you saw, Ensign?
GARROVICK: I'd say it measured from ten to sixty cubic meters, sir. It varied in size, fluctuated as it moved.
SPOCK: Composition?
GARROVICK: It was like a, a gaseous cloud. Parts of it I could see through. Other parts were more dense.
MCCOY: Ensign, did you sense any intelligence in this gaseous cloud?
GARROVICK: Did I what, sir?
MCCOY: Did you get any subconscious impressions that this was a creature. A living, thinking thing, rather than just a strange cloud of chemical elements?
GARROVICK: No, sir.
KIRK: But you didn't come to actual contact with it, did you?
GARROVICK: No, sir. I was furthest away from it. It seemed to come out of nowhere, hovered for a moment, then moved toward my men. It was fast, incredibly fast.
KIRK: Did you say it hovered?
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: You did fire at it, didn't you?
GARROVICK: Yes, sir, I did.
KIRK: What distance were you from the creature?
GARROVICK: About twenty yards, sir.
KIRK: You fired at a large, hovering target at that distance and missed?
GARROVICK: Yes. I, er, well, I didn't fire while it was hovering, sir.
KIRK: You mean you froze?
GARROVICK: No, sir. I didn't exactly freeze.
KIRK: What exactly were you doing?
GARROVICK: Well, I was startled for a second. And then by the time I fired, the thing was already moving.
KIRK: Do you have any further information?
GARROVICK: No, sir.
KIRK: Do you gentlemen have any further questions?
GARROVICK: I only hesitated for a moment, sir. I'm sorry.
KIRK: Ensign, you're relieved of all duties and confined to quarters until further notice.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: You were a little hard on the boy, Jim.
KIRK: He froze. One man was killed. Another may die.
SPOCK: Captain, scientifically
KIRK: You'll both be filing reports. Make your comments and recommendations then.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, while we're waiting I've taken the liberty of cleaning the radioactive disposal vent on number two impulse engine, but we'll be ready to leave orbit in under half an hour.
KIRK: We're not leaving orbit, Mister Scott. Not that quickly.
UHURA: Captain, the Yorktown requesting information on how soon we expect to rendezvous with them.
KIRK: Thank you.
SCOTT: The medicine for Theta Seven colony is not only needed desperately and has limited
KIRK: I'm aware of the situation, Engineer, and I'm getting a little tired of my senior officers conspiring against me. Forgive me. Perhaps I shouldn't have used the word conspire.
SCOTT: Agreed, sir.
KIRK: Scanner readings?
CHEKOV: Nothing, sir. Continuing to scan.
KIRK: Are you aware it can change its molecular structure?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Are you scanning for any unusual movement?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Any type of gaseous cloud?
CHEKOV: We've run a full scanner probe twice.
KIRK: Then run it twenty times if that's what it takes!

[McCoy's office]
SPOCK: I hope I'm not disturbing you, Doctor.
MCCOY: Interrupting another autopsy report is no disturbance, Mister Spock. It's a relief.
SPOCK: I need your advice.
MCCOY: Then I need a drink.
SPOCK: I do not understand your reasoning.
MCCOY: You need advice from me? You must be kidding.
SPOCK: I do not joke, Doctor. Perhaps I should rephrase my statement. I require an opinion. There are many aspects of human irrationality I do not yet comprehend. obsession, for one. The persistent, single-minded fixation on one idea.
MCCOY: Jim and his creature?
SPOCK: Precisely. Have you studied the incident involving the USS Farragut?
MCCOY: No. With all these deaths and injuries, I've only had a chance to scan the tapes. There are eight or ten hours of record tape there.
SPOCK: Fortunately, I read somewhat faster. In brief, Doctor, nearly half the crew and the captain were annihilated. The captain's name was Garrovick.
MCCOY: The same as our Ensign.
SPOCK: His father. Among the survivors was a young officer on his first deep-space assignment, James T. Kirk. And there is still more. I suggest you study this.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): Personal log, stardate 3620.7. Have I the right to jeopardize my crew, my ship for a feeling I can't even put into words? No man achieves Starfleet command without relying on intuition, but have I made a rational decision? Am I letting the horrors of the past distort my judgment of the present?
MCCOY: Mind if I come in?
KIRK: Kirk to bridge. Scanning report.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Continued scanning, sir. No unusual readings.
KIRK: Maintain search. Kirk out. It can't have just vanished.
MCCOY: Sometimes they do, if we're lucky. Monsters come in many forms. You know the greatest monster of them all, Jim? Guilt.
KIRK: Get to the point.
MCCOY: Jim, When a young officer is exposed to unknown dangers for the first time, he's under tremendous emotional stress. Now we all know that.
KIRK: Ensign Garrovick is a ship-command decision. You're straying out of your field, Doctor.
MCCOY: Am I? I was speaking of Lieutenant James T. Kirk of the starship Farragut. Eleven years ago, you were the young officer at the phaser station when something attacked. According to the tapes, this young Lieutenant Kirk insisted upon blaming himself.
KIRK: Because I delayed in firing at it.
MCCOY: You had a normal emotion. You were startled. You delayed firing for a grand total of perhaps two seconds.
KIRK: If I hadn't delayed, it would have been killed.
MCCOY: The ship's exec didn't seem to think so. His log entry was quite clear on the subject. Lieutenant Kirk is a fine young officer who performed with uncommon bravery.
KIRK: Don't you understand? It killed two hundred crewmen.
MCCOY: Captain Garrovick was very important to you, wasn't he, Jim?
KIRK: Yes. He was my commanding officer from the day I left the Academy. One of the finest men I ever knew. I could have killed that thing if I'd fired soon enough the first time.
MCCOY: You don't know that, Jim. You don't know that any more than you know that Garrovick could have destroyed it.
KIRK: I can't help how I feel. There's an intelligence about it, Bones. A malevolence. It's evil. It must be destroyed.
MCCOY: To be so obsessed.
KIRK: Obsessed?
MCCOY: That you could destroy yourself, your career, a young boy who reminds you of yourself eleven years ago.
KIRK: Don't push our friendship past the point where I have to take official
MCCOY: I'm not, Jim. This is professional, Captain. I am preparing a medical log entry on my estimation of the physical and emotional condition of a starship captain. Which requires a witness of command grade.
KIRK: Do I take it, Doctor, Commander, that both of you or either of you consider me unfit or incapacitated?
SPOCK: Correctly phrased, Captain. As recommended in the manual. Our reply, also as recommended, is, sir, we have noted in your recent behavior certain items, which, on the surface, seem unusual. We respectfully ask permission to inquire further
KIRK: Blast it! Forget the manual! Ask your questions.
SPOCK: Sir, the USS Yorktown is waiting now at the rendezvous point. It carries perishable drugs
KIRK: Skip the recitation, Spock. I know the facts.
MCCOY: They need those vaccines on Theta Seven, Captain. Now why are we delaying here?
KIRK: Because I'm convinced that this is the same creature that attacked the Farragut eleven years ago.
SPOCK: Creature, Captain?
KIRK: My report is on the tapes. As it attacked us eleven years ago, as I lost consciousness, I could feel the intelligence of the thing. I could sense it thinking, planning.
SPOCK: You say you could sense its intelligence, Captain? How did it communicate with you?
MCCOY: You state that it happened just as you lost consciousness. A semiconscious mind is a very tricky thing. A man never knows how much is real or how much is imagination.
KIRK: Whatever it is, Doctor, whatever it is, wouldn't you call it deadly?
MCCOY: Yes, there's no doubt about that.
KIRK: And what if it is the same creature that attacked eleven years ago from a planet over a thousand light years from here?
SPOCK: Obviously, Captain, if it is an intelligent creature, if it is the same one, if it therefore is capable of space travel, it could pose a great threat to inhabited planets.
KIRK: A lot of ifs, I agree, but in my command judgment, they out weigh other factors. Intuition, however illogical, Mister Spock, is recognized as a command prerogative.
MCCOY: Jim, we're not trying to gang up on you.
KIRK: And you haven't, Doctor. You've expressed the proper concern, you've asked the proper questions. You've both done your duty. Now may I ask what medical log entry you intend to make?
MCCOY: At this point, my medical log remains open.
KIRK: In that case, gentlemen
CHEKOV (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. Come in.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV: I have a reading on the whatever it is, Captain. Leaving the planet surface, heading into space.
KIRK: All decks, Red Alert. Red alert. Prepare to leave orbit.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, we can't maintain warp eight speed much longer. Pressures are approaching the critical point.
KIRK: Range, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV (voiceover): Point zero four light years ahead. Our phasers won't reach it, sir.
SPOCK: We are barely closing in on it, Captain. We could be pursuing it for days.
KIRK: If necessary. Do what you can to increase our speed, Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Extreme magnification, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Magnification twelve. There, sir. Got it.
KIRK: Spock, how do you read that?
SPOCK: Conflicting data, Captain. It seems to be in a borderline state between matter and energy. Elements of both. It could possibly use gravitational fields for propulsion.
KIRK: And you don't find that sophisticated, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Extremely efficient, Captain. Whether that indicates intelligence is another matter.
CHEKOV: Open hatch on impulse engine number two. Mister Scott was doing an AID clean-up on it.
KIRK: We won't be using the impulse engines. Turn the alarm off.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
SCOTT: Captain, we can't do it. If we keep this speed, we'll blow up any minute now.
KIRK: Go to warp six.

[Garrovick's quarters]
CHAPEL: Hi. Everyone else is at alert station, so I brought you some dinner.
GARROVICK: I'm not hungry.
CHAPEL: Doctor's orders.
GARROVICK: What's happening?
CHAPEL: Are we still chasing that thing half way across the galaxy? Yes. Has the captain lost his sense of balance? Maybe. Is the entire crew about ready to explode? Positively. You're lucky you're out of it.
GARROVICK: What do you mean, out of it? I caused it. You know that, too, don't you? If I'd fired my phaser quickly enough on Argus Ten, this wouldn't have happened.
CHAPEL: You know, self-pity's a terrible first course. Why don't you try the soup instead?
GARROVICK: I told you, Christine, I'm not hungry.
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy thought you might say something like that. This is his officially logged prescription for you. It has one word on it. Eat. Now if you don't follow his orders, Doctor McCoy could and possibly would have you hauled down to Sickbay and fed intravenously.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: What's that?
CHAPEL: Hmm? This?
MCCOY: A survey on Cygnian Respiratory Diseases? I thought you took Garrovick some food. What were you doing with this?
CHAPEL: Applying psychology.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: The creature is slowing. It's down to warp two.
KIRK: Reduce speed. Approach slowly.
CHEKOV: I don't understand. It was outrunning us.
KIRK: Maybe it's decided to fight. Phasers ready?
CHEKOV: Phasers show ready, sir.

[Garrovick's quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): Battle stations. All decks to battle stations. This is not a drill. All decks to battle stations.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: It's coming to a full halt, sir. Magnification one.
KIRK: Move in closely, Mister Chekov. Sublight one quarter speed.
GARROVICK: Captain, request permission to return to my post.
CHEKOV: Within phaser range, sir.
KIRK: Lock all phasers on target.
CHEKOV: Locked on target.
KIRK: Fire phasers, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Phasers ineffectual, sir.
KIRK: Photon torpedoes. Minimum spread pattern.
CHEKOV: Minimum pattern ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire photon torpedoes.
UHURA: There. It's coming, sir.
KIRK: Deflectors up.
CHEKOV: Deflectors up, sir.
SPOCK: The deflectors will not stop it, Captain.
SCOTT: That's impossible.
SPOCK: I should have surmised this. For the creature to be able to use gravity as a propulsive force, it would have to have this capacity.
CHEKOV: Five seconds to contact. All hatches and vents secure. All lights on the board show green. Sir! The number two impulse vent! we have a red light!
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, all decks
SCOTT: Captain, something's entered through the number two impulse vent.
KIRK: Negative pressure in all ship's vents. Alert all decks.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Report.
SCOTT: When it entered impulse engine number two's vent, it attacked two crewmen. It then got into the ventilating system, and now we have air for only two hours.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: One man has a chance for survival. The other is dead. You can add that little price tag to your monster hunt.
KIRK: That's enough, Bones.
MCCOY: It's not enough! You didn't care as long as you could hang your trophy on the wall. Well, it's not on it, Captain, it's in it.
SPOCK: May I suggest that we no longer belabor the question of whether or not we should have gone after the creature. The matter has now been rendered academic. The creature is now after us.
MCCOY: Creature, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: It turned and attacked, Doctor. Its method was well-considered and intelligent.
KIRK: Yes, well, it could have been many light years away from us. Instead it chose to turn and attack here. Why?
SPOCK: Impossible to tell, Captain, until I can make a closer survey of the creature.
KIRK: Scotty, try flushing the radioactive waste into the ventilation system. See what effect that has.
SCOTT: Aye.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Jim. I was wrong.
SPOCK: Captain, the creature's ability to throw itself out of time sync makes it possible for it to be elsewhere in the instant the phaser hits. There is therefore no basis for your self-recrimination. If you had fired on time and on target eleven years ago, it would have made no more difference than it did an hour ago. Captain Garrovick would still be dead. The fault was not yours, Jim. In fact, there was no fault.
KIRK: If you want to play analyst, Spock, use someone else, not me. My concern is with the ship and the crew.

[Garrovick's quarters]
GARROVICK: Come in.
SPOCK: Ensign, am I correct in my assumption that you've been disturbed by what you consider to be a failure on your part? I would like you to consider that the hesitation for which you are blaming yourself is an hereditary trait of your species. When suddenly faced by the unknown or imminent danger, the human will experience a split second of indecision. He hesitates. Do I have your attention, Ensign?
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: I know you would prefer to wallow in emotion rather than
GARROVICK: Mister Spock, it's very kind of you to come here
SPOCK: Kindness, Mr. Garrovick, is another human emotion, and I believe we have enough of that. I simply would like you to accept the fact that your reaction has its basis in physio. Do you smell something?
GARROVICK: Sir, it's coming through the vent.
SPOCK: Get out of here! I'll attempt to seal it off.

[Corridor]
GARROVICK: Sir, the creature's in my cabin. It's got Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
KIRK: On my way, Garrovick. Security to three four one. Medical alert. Scotty, reverse cabin pressure three four one.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Security, hold it. Tricorder.
MCCOY: Jim, Spock may be dying.
KIRK: If we let that thing into the ship, he'll have a lot of company.
GARROVICK: I must have jammed the vent control when I hit it.
KIRK: See if the reverse pressure has pulled it back into the ventilation system.
GARROVICK: He saved my life, Captain. I should be lying dead in there, not him.
SPOCK: Fortunately, neither of us is dead, Ensign. The reverse pressure worked. The vent is closed.
KIRK: Don't misunderstand my next question. Mister Spock, why aren't you dead?
MCCOY: It's that green blood of his.
SPOCK: My hemoglobin is based on copper, not iron.
MCCOY: I'll bet he left a bad taste in the creature's mouth, too.
SPOCK: Colloquially expressed, but essentially correct.
KIRK: Yes. The scent is different. I think I understand something now.
SPOCK: Do you believe you're in communication with the creature?
KIRK: I don't know what it is, Mister Spock, but you remember I said the thing was alive. It may not be communication as we understand it, but I did know it was alive and intelligent, and I think I know something else now.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Kirk. Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott, Captain. The creature's moving back toward the number two impulse vent. The radioactive flushing may be affecting it.
KIRK: Open the vent. On my way to the bridge. Kirk out. Ensign Garrovick.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: You were on the bridge when we were attacked.
GARROVICK: Yes, I'm sorry, sir. I know I was confined to quarters, but when the alert sounded
KIRK: Very commendable, Ensign. What was your impression of the battle?
GARROVICK: I don't understand, sir.
KIRK: I'm asking for your military appraisal of the techniques used against the creature.
GARROVICK: Ineffective, Captain. I realize, Captain, you did everything you could do. I know that. It's just that nothing works against a monster that can do the things that thing does.
KIRK: And Ensign, what is your appraisal of your conduct on the planet?
GARROVICK: I delayed firing.
KIRK: If you hadn't delayed firing? No difference, Ensign. No weapon known would have made any difference. Then or eleven years ago. Report for duty, Ensign.
GARROVICK: Yes, Captain. Thank you, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Report, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Results positive, Captain. The creature has left the ship at high warp speed and is already nearly out of scanner range. The way that thing can move, Captain, I wouldn't believe it.
KIRK: Direction, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: It was bearing one two seven mark nine, but I've lost it now.
KIRK: Mister Scott, I'll need all the speed you can deliver. Keep at it until we begin to shake apart. Kirk out. I believe I know where it's going.
SPOCK: It has changed course before to mislead us, Captain. Logic would dictate that
KIRK: No, I'm playing intuition. Mister Chekov, compute a course for Tychos star system.
CHEKOV: Computed and on the board.
KIRK: Ahead full.
CHEKOV: Ahead full, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet and the USS Yorktown.
UHURA: Frequency open and clear, sir.
KIRK: Inform them that we are pursuing the creature to planet four of that system. That's the location of its attack on the USS Farragut eleven years ago.
SPOCK: I do not understand, Captain.
KIRK: In Garrovick's quarters, I said the scent of the creature was somehow different. Something in my mind said home.
SPOCK: And you know where home is, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, I think I do. I don't know how I know, but home is where it fought a starship once before. Ito Uhura) Inform them of our tactical situation and inform them I'm committing this vessel to the destruction of the creature. We will rendezvous. Round-trip time, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: One point seven days, sir.
KIRK: We will rendezvous with the USS Yorktown in forty eight hours.
MCCOY: I assume that you now believe we should pursue the creature and destroy it.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: You don't agree with Mister Spock?
MCCOY: It's the time factor that bothers me. Those drugs are perishable.
SPOCK: Doctor, evidence indicates the creature is here to spawn. If so, it will reproduce by fission, not just into two parts, but thousands.
KIRK: Antimatter seems our only possibility.
SPOCK: An ounce should be sufficient. We can drain it from the ship's engines and transport it to the planet surface in a magnetic vacuum field.
KIRK: Contact medical stores. I want as much haemoplasm as they can spare in the transporter room in fifteen minutes.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: I presume you intend to use that haemoplasm to attract the creature?
KIRK: We must get it to the antimatter. It seems attracted to red blood cells. What better bait could we have?
SPOCK: There is still one problem, Captain.
KIRK: The blast, yes.
SPOCK: Exactly. A matter-antimatter blast will rip away half the planet's atmosphere. If our vessel is in orbit and encounters those shock waves
KIRK: A chance we'll have to take, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Also, we cannot be certain the transporter will operate under those conditions. If a man is beaming up when that hits, we may lose him.
KIRK: That's exactly why I've decided to set the trap myself.
SPOCK: Captain, there is so little hemoglobin in my green blood, the creature could not harm me extensively. It therefore seems logical for me to be the one
KIRK: Negative, Mister Spock. In case this plan fails, I'll need you aboard the ship. In that event, we'll need another plan.
SPOCK: It will require two men to transport the antimatter unit.
GARROVICK: I'd like permission to go with you, sir.
KIRK: I had you in mind, Mister Garrovick.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.
KIRK: Proceed immediately to maximum orbit.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
GARROVICK: Just think, Captain, less than one ounce of antimatter here is more powerful than ten thousand cobalt bombs.
KIRK: Let's hope it's as powerful as man will ever get. Detonator.
GARROVICK: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain. Holding at thirty thousand kilometers.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Antimatter container positioned and armed. I'll call you back when it's baited. Kirk out.
GARROVICK: Captain, look!
GARROVICK: The haemoplasm. The bait's already taken.
KIRK: We'll need something else for bait.
GARROVICK: Sir, that thing only feeds on blood.
KIRK: Garrovick, get back to the ship. Tell them to prepare to detonate.
GARROVICK: Captain, you're not going to be the bait.
KIRK: I said, get back to the ship. Ensign, I gave you an order.
GARROVICK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Consider yourself on report. This is no time for heroics. I have no intention of sacrificing myself, at least not yet. Spock? Spock?
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
KIRK: Scan us and lock on to us. It's going to be close. Very, very close. Stand by. Stand by, Enterprise.
GARROVICK: I can smell it, Captain. It's sickening. Honey sweet.
KIRK: Stand by, Enterprise. Now! Energize and detonate!

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Reset. Energize.
CHEKOV (voiceover): All decks, stand by. Shock waves.
MCCOY: Do something.
SPOCK: We are, Doctor. Cross-circuiting to A.
SCOTT: Got them. A piece of them, anyway.
SPOCK: Cross-circuiting to B.
MCCOY: Crazy way to travel, spreading a man's molecules all over the universe.
SCOTT: Captain, thank heaven.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, there was no deity involved. It was my cross-circuiting to B that recovered them.
MCCOY: Well then, thank pitchforks and pointed ears. As long as it worked, Jim.
KIRK: That's a fair statement, Bones. Now that the creature is dead, let's save some lives. We'll deliver your medicine. Bridge, this is Kirk.
UHURA (voiceover): Uhura here.
KIRK: Have Mister Chekov lay in a course for a rendezvous with the Yorktown, maximum warp.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Oh, Ensign, meet me in my quarters when you've cleaned up. I'd like to talk to you about your father. Several tall stories I think you'd like to hear.
GARROVICK: Thank you, sir. I would.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4307.1. Approaching Starbase Six for a much needed period of rest and recreation.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The crew has performed excellently, but is exhausted. And I, too, am looking forward to a nice period of rest on some lovely planet.
UHURA: Captain. There was a message from Starbase Six. Heavy interference. All I get is Intrepid and what sounded like a sector co-ordinate.
SPOCK: Interesting. No indications of magnetic storms in this sector.
KIRK: Try another channel, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: The Intrepid is manned by Vulcans, isn't it?
KIRK: Yes, that's right, Bones.
UHURA: Enterprise calling Starbase Six. Enterprise calling Starbase Six. Come in. Come in.
KIRK: Spock?
MCCOY: What is it, Spock? Are you in pain?
SPOCK: Captain, the Intrepid. It just died. And the four hundred Vulcans aboard, all dead.
MCCOY: Come on, Spock, let's go down to Sickbay.
SPOCK: Doctor, I know what I know.
KIRK: Get to the Sickbay.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: No, no, no. That's an order.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
UHURA: Captain, I have Starbase Six readable now. Switching to audio, sir.
KIRK: Kirk here. Go ahead.
STARBASE (voiceover): You will divert immediately to sector three nine J.
KIRK: Sir, the Enterprise just completed an exhausting mission. We're on our way in for R and R. There must be another starship in that sector.
STARBASE (voiceover): Negative. This is a rescue priority. We've lost all contact with solar system Gamma Seven-A, which the Intrepid was investigating. And we've just lost contact with the Intrepid. Report progress.
KIRK: Order acknowledged. Kirk out. Mister Kyle, you heard the order. Set course for Gamma Seven-A, warp five.
KYLE: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: Captain I have just completed a full long-range scan of Gamma Seven-A system. It is dead.
KIRK: Dead? It's a fourth magnitude sun. There are billions of inhabitants there.
CHEKOV: It is dead.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: I assure you, Doctor, I am quite all right. The pain was momentary. It passed quickly.
MCCOY: All of my instruments seem to agree with you if I can trust these crazy Vulcan readings. Spock, how can you be so sure the lntrepid was destroyed?
SPOCK: I sensed it die.
MCCOY: But I thought you had to be in physical contact with a subject before
SPOCK: Doctor, even I, a half-Vulcan, could hear the death scream of four hundred Vulcan minds crying out over the distance between us.
MCCOY: Not even a Vulcan could feel a starship die.
SPOCK: Call it a deep understanding of the way things happen to Vulcans, but I know not a person, not even the computers on board the Intrepid, knew what was killing them or would have understood it had they known.
MCCOY: But four hundred Vulcans?
SPOCK: I've noticed that about your people, Doctor. You find it easier to understand the death of one than the death of a million. You speak about the objective hardness of the Vulcan heart, yet how little room there seems to be in yours.
MCCOY: Suffer the death of thy neighbor, eh, Spock? You wouldn't wish that on us, would you?
SPOCK: It might have rendered your history a bit less bloody.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock, you may have been right. We've lost contact with the Intrepid and we're out of communication with an entire solar system. Any update from Starfleet?
UHURA: I cannot filter out the distortion, sir. It's getting worse.
KYLE: Captain, deflector shields just snapped on.
KIRK: Slow to warp three.
KYLE: Warp three, sir.
SPOCK: Indications of energy turbulence ahead. Unable to analyze. I've never encountered readings like this before.
KIRK: Scanners on. Magnification three on the screen.
KYLE: Magnification factor three, sir.
UHURA: Exactly what are we looking for, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I would assume that.
KIRK: What is that?
CHEKOV: Perhaps an interstellar dust cloud.
SPOCK: Not very likely, Ensign.
KIRK: No. You'd be able to see stars through a dust cloud. Looks like a hole in space. Readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Still not able to analyze, Captain. Sensors are feeding data to the computers now. Whatever this dark zone is, it lies directly in line with the course I calculate for the Intrepid and the Gamma Seven-A system.
KIRK: Hold present course. Slow to warp one.
KYLE: Warp factor one, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, prepare to launch a telemetry probe into that zone. Direct computer feed to Mister Spock.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Probe ready. Switching data feed to library computer.
KIRK: Launch probe.
CHEKOV: Probe launched, sir.
KIRK: What was that?
UHURA: The telemetry probe, sir. There's no signal from it.
KIRK: Speculation, Spock.
SPOCK: I have none, Captain. Insufficient data.
SPOCK: Lieutenant.
UHURA: I'm just dizzy. I'll be all right. I'm fine, sir.
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Kirk. McCoy here.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it?
MCCOY (voiceover): I'm getting reports from every deck. Half the people on this ship just fainted.
KIRK: Uhura almost did. She says she's all right. Do you want to see her?
MCCOY: Not unless she's feeling ill. I've got an emergency here.

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): What's wrong?
MCCOY: There's nothing organic. They all seem to be nervous, weak, and irritable. They say it happened suddenly, like a balloon popping.
KIRK (voiceover): Can you handle it, Bones?
MCCOY: I'm giving them stimulants to keep them on their feet.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Yeah, we can handle it, Jim.
KIRK: Good. Kirk out. Hold our position, Mister Kyle.
KYLE: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock, give me an update on the dark area ahead.
SPOCK: No analysis due to insufficient information.
KIRK: No speculation, no information, nothing. I've asked you three times for information on that, and you've been unable to supply it. Insufficient data is not sufficient, Mister Spock. You're the science officer. You're supposed to have sufficient data all the time.
SPOCK: I am well aware of that, Captain, but the computers contain nothing on this phenomenon. It is beyond our experience, and the new information is not yet significant.
KIRK: I don't know about you but I'm tired. If you can't tell me what it is, let's use reverse logic. Perhaps it'll help if you tell me what it isn't.
SPOCK: It is not liquid, gaseous, or solid, despite the fact we cannot see through it.
KIRK: So far that's not much help.
SPOCK: It is not a galactic nebula such as the Coal Sack, and since our deflectors were activated by it, it would seem to be some form of energy, but nothing our sensors can identify.
KIRK: Is it possible that this is what killed that solar system and the Intrepid?
SPOCK: Very possible.
KIRK: Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Notify the Starfleet that we're going to attempt to probe the area of darkness to gain further information.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: I'm all right. Distance from zone of darkness, Mister Kyle?
KYLE: One hundred thousand kilometers, sir.
KIRK: Ahead slow. Impulse power only.
KYLE: Aye, aye, sir.
UHURA: Transmission to Starfleet complete, sir.
KIRK: Very good. Time, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Penetration of the zone in one minute, seven seconds, sir.
KIRK: Red Alert. Deflectors full power. Phaser banks ready.
CHEKOV: Phasers standing by. Deflectors at full power, sir.
UHURA: It's not coming from communications, sir.
KIRK: Spock!
SPOCK: Analyzing now, Captain.
CHEKOV: Captain, the stars are gone!
KIRK: Malfunction, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. All systems functioning properly.
KIRK: Then kindly tell me what happened to the stars.
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to McCoy.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here.
KIRK: Things any better down there?
MCCOY (voiceover): Worse. They're backed up into the corridor.
KIRK: Have you got anything that will help up here? I don't want anybody folding on the bridge at a critical moment.
MCCOY (voiceover): On my way. McCoy out.
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering. Scotty, there was a power loss. How come?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: We lost five percent of our energy reserve, sir. Our deflector shields are weakened.
KIRK (voiceover): Can you compensate for the loss?
SCOTT: Aye, if we don't lose any more. Don't ask me how it happened.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I am asking how, mister. I want answers. Kirk out.
KIRK: What's that?
MCCOY: A stimulant.
KIRK: Bones, how bad is it?
MCCOY: Two thirds of the personnel are affected.
KIRK: Why? How? Do you have any answers?
MCCOY: No. You know you'll get everything I can tell you. But when there is nothing, what should I say?
MCCOY: Nurse.
KIRK: This ship is in trouble. We'd better start solving problems faster than we pick up new ones. We seem to be in the middle of a creeping paralysis. Mister Spock, analysis of that last burst of noise before we started losing power.
SPOCK: That sound was turbulence caused by the penetration of a boundary layer, Captain.
KIRK: What boundary layer?
SPOCK: Unknown.
KIRK: Boundary layer between what and what?
SPOCK: Between where we were and where we are.
KIRK: Are you trying to be funny, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: It would never occur to me, Captain.
KIRK: Do you have any ideas, Spock?
SPOCK: We still have no specifics, but we seem to have entered a zone of energy which is incompatible with our living and mechanical processes. As we draw closer to the source, it grows stronger and we grow weaker.
KIRK: Recommendations.
MCCOY: I have one. I recommend survival. Let's get out of here.
KIRK: This is the Captain. We're on a difficult mission, but it's not the first time. Our orders do not say stay alive or retreat.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Our mission is to investigate.

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): We're sick, and we're getting sicker.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We have no guarantees, but we have a good ship and the best crew in Starfleet. So do your jobs. Carry on. Kirk out.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Sickbay to Captain Kirk.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here. Go ahead, Bones.
MCCOY: Jim, according to the life indicators, the energy levels

[Bridge]
KIRK: Yes, say it, Bones.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: According to the life monitors, we're dying.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): We're all dying.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4308.8. It is now ten minutes since we entered the zone of darkness. We have stopped engines while we seek a defense against the energy drain which seems to pervade the zone.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Are you all right?
SCOTT: Yes.
KIRK: What was that?
SCOTT: I'm sorry, sir. I'm not sure. I was trying to recalibrate, and we went into reverse.
KIRK: Reverse? But that was a forward lurch. How could that happen in reverse thrust?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. All I know is that the power levels are down twelve percent and steadily decreasing. I've never experienced anything like it.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sir, we are accelerating. We are being pulled toward the center of the zone of darkness.
KIRK (voiceover): By what, Spock?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. I suggest you order Mister Scott to give us reverse power.

[Engineering]
KIRK: He just gave us reverse power. We lurched forward.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: In that case, Captain, I would suggest we apply forward thrust.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor. Life function indicators. They've started a sharp drop again.
MCCOY: Stimulants. I don't know how long we can keep this up.

[Engineering]
KIRK: What do you think, Scotty? Forward thrust?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. It goes against the rules of logic.
KIRK: Yes, doesn't it? Well, if it doesn't work, I'll never let Spock live it down. Notch it into forward.
SCOTT: But
KIRK: Go ahead.
SCOTT: That's doing it, sir. We're slowing down. But we're not stopping. We're still being dragged forward.
KIRK: Have one of your engineers monitor the instruments. Keep applying thrust against the pull.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor, they seem to be stabilizing.
MCCOY: But at a dangerously low level. Well, we're still alive. I suppose that's something.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: All I can contribute is the further we travel into this zone of darkness, the weaker our life functions become, and I have no idea why. I'm all right. It's those stimulants. They catch up with you.
KIRK: Engineering.
SCOTT: As to the power levels are concerned, everything is acting backwards, but the drain is continuing. On the static test, I could only get sixty percent power. We're still being dragged forward.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: It's logical to assume that something within this zone absorbs all forms of energy whether mechanically or biologically produced. Whatever it is, it would seem to be the same thing which drew all the energy out of an entire solar system and the Intrepid.
KIRK: The same thing, not the zone itself?
SPOCK: I would say not, Captain. The analysis of the zone indicates it is a negative energy field, however illogical that may sound, but it is not the source of the power drain.
KIRK: Maybe it's a shield of some kind. Some form of protection for something else.
SCOTT: But what?
KIRK: We'll find out what it is, but we'd better get out of here ourselves. Scotty, channel all the impulse and warp power into one massive thrust forward. That might snap us out of the zone.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain, but I'll reserve some for the shields in case we don't get out.
SPOCK: I submit, Mister Scott, if we do not get out, the shields would be extraneous. It would only prolong our wait for death by a short period of time.
KIRK: Use whatever power is necessary to get us out of here, Scotty. Report to your stations, continue your research. Dismissed.
SPOCK: Captain, the Intrepid would have done all these things too, and yet they were destroyed.
KIRK: Well, they may not have done all of these things. You just pointed out how illogical this situation is.
SPOCK: True. It is also true they never knew what was killing them. Their logic would not have permitted them to believe they were being killed.
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK: Vulcan has not been conquered within its collective memory. The memory goes back so far that no Vulcan can conceive of a conqueror. I knew the ship was lost because I sensed it.
KIRK: What was it you sensed?
SPOCK: The touch of death.
KIRK: And what do you think they felt?
SPOCK: Astonishment.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: That ought to do it. Engineering to Captain Kirk.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it, Scotty?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Ready to try it when you are, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Do we have the power to pull it off, Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): I hope so, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by. All hands, this is the captain. We are slowly being pulled deeper into the zone of darkness by an unknown force. We're going to apply

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): All available power

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Into one giant forward thrust

[Bridge]
KIRK: In the hope that it will yank us out of the zone. Prepare yourselves. All right, Scotty. Let's get on with it.
KIRK: Scotty!
SCOTT (voiceover): It's no good, sir. The best we can do is to maintain thrust against the pull and hold our position.
KIRK: Are we still losing power?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): How long will the power hold out?
SCOTT: At this rate, plus the drain on all systems, two hours.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Maintain thrust, Scotty. While we're maintaining our distance, Mister Spock, have you ascertained yet what we're maintaining our distance from?
SPOCK: I cannot say what it is, Captain, but I would say it has found us.
KIRK: Prepare to launch a probe, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Probe ready for launch, sir.
SPOCK: Getting very confused readings, Captain, but this is definitely the source of the energy drain.
KIRK: Launch probe.
CHEKOV: Probe launched, sir.
SPOCK: Probe will impact in seven point three seconds.
KYLE: Six, five, four, three, two, one.
KIRK: Are we still in contact with the probe?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir. Data being relayed to Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Readings coming in now, Captain. Length, approximately eleven thousand miles. Width varying from two thousand to three thousand miles. Outer layer studded with space debris and waste. Interior consists of protoplasm, varying from a firmer gelatinous layer to a semi-fluid central mass. Condition, living.
KIRK: Magnification four.
CHEKOV: Magnification four, sir.
SPOCK: That is what is drawing us toward it, Captain. The same way it drew the Intrepid to her death.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: That is an amoeba.
KIRK: Yes, I remember my basic biology, Doctor. You mean to tell me that that thing is a giant single-celled animal?
MCCOY: Yes, for lack of a better term. It's a very simple form of life. In fact it's a much simpler form of life than what you're looking at now. But that thing can apparently perform all the functions that qualify it as a living organism. It can reproduce, it can breathe, it can eat, although I don't know what.
SPOCK: Energy itself, perhaps, drained from us. I would speculate that this unknown life form is invading our galaxy like a virus.
KIRK: The Intrepid died of that particular virus. How is it we survived?
SPOCK: The Intrepid must have come across the organism while it was still low in energy, still hungry. We are not safe, Captain. We merely have a little more time than the Intrepid did.
KIRK: What about this zone of darkness? Does the organism generate it itself as a form of protection?
MCCOY: It's one of the things we've got to find out. We've got to take a closer look at it.
KIRK: The closer we get, the faster our energy drains out. We're barely surviving at this distance.
MCCOY: Perhaps we could risk the shuttlecraft. Perhaps with a protective shield
KIRK: I'm not sending anyone anywhere. Unmanned probes can give us the information we need to destroy this thing, if it can be destroyed.
SPOCK: I must differ with you, Captain. We have sent unmanned probes into it. They have given us some information but they have not told us what we need to know, and we cannot afford the power to take blind shots at it, hoping to kill it.
MCCOY: We could send one man in, pinpoint its vulnerable spots.
KIRK: DO you know what the odds are in coming back? I can't order a man to do that.
MCCOY: Who said anything about an order, Jim? You've got a volunteer. I've done the preliminary work.
KIRK: It's a suicide mission.
SPOCK: The thing evidently has reflexes. The unmanned probe we sent in must have stung it when it entered. The lurch we felt was the turbulence of its reaction.
MCCOY: All right, so I'd know enough to go slow when we penetrated its vulnerable spots.
SPOCK: You have a martyr complex, Doctor. I submit that it disqualifies you.
MCCOY: Do you think I intend to pass up the greatest living laboratory since
SPOCK: The Vulcans saw it first and died.
MCCOY: Just because the Vulcans failed
SPOCK: I am more capable.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I am not taking volunteers.
MCCOY: You don't think you're going?
KIRK: I'm better qualified as a command pilot than you are.
SPOCK: Which makes you indispensable, Captain. Further, you are not a science specialist.
MCCOY: Jim, that organism contains chemical processes we've never seen before and may never see again. We could learn more in one day
SPOCK: We don't have one day, Doctor. We have precisely one hour and thirty five minutes of power left.
MCCOY: Jim
SPOCK: Captain, I
KIRK: Gentlemen, I'll decide.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Captain's personal log, stardate 4309.2. We have established that the thing which destroyed the USS Intrepid and the Gamma Seven=A system is an incredibly huge but simple cellular being whose energies are totally destructive to all known life. Both Mister Spock and Doctor McCoy have volunteered to go in a specially equipped shuttlecraft to penetrate the cell, find a way to destroy it, and free the ship. Doctor McCoy has the medical-biological knowledge. Mister Spock is better suited physically and emotionally to stand the stress. Both are right, both are capable, and which of my friends do I condemn to death? This is the captain. Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy, report to my quarters immediately. Kirk out.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SCOTT: You asked me to keep you informed on the power drain. All levels are down fifty percent now

[Kirk's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): And still draining. We can maintain thrust for another hour and fifteen minutes.
KIRK: Very well. Prepare the shuttlecraft for launching.
SCOTT (voiceover): Sir?
KIRK: Doctor McCoy will tell you what special equipment to put in. Kirk out. I'm sorry, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Right. I'll get a few things I need, Jim.
KIRK: Not you, Bones. I'm sorry, Mister Spock. You're best qualified to go.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Do not suffer so, Doctor. This is not the first time superior capability has proven more valuable than professional credentials.
MCCOY: Nothing has been proven yet, Spock. The DNA code analyzer will give you the fundamental structure of the thing. You'll need readings on three light wavelengths from the enzyme recorder.
SPOCK: I am familiar with the equipment, Doctor. We're wasting time. The shuttlecraft is ready.
MCCOY: You're determined not to let me share in this, aren't you?
SPOCK: This is not a competition, Doctor. Whether you understand it or not, grant me my own kind of dignity.
MCCOY: Vulcan dignity? How can I grant you what I don't understand?
SPOCK: Then employ one of your own superstitions. Wish me luck.
MCCOY: Good luck, Spock.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: All systems clear for shuttlecraft launch. sir.
KIRK: Launch shuttlecraft.
KYLE: Shuttlecraft away, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, channel automatic telemetry directly to the computers.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK (voiceover): Shuttlecraft to Enterprise.
KIRK: Come in, Spock.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Power drain is enormous and growing worse.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Chekov.
SPOCK (voiceover): Diverting all secondary power to the shields. I'll continue communications as long as there is power to transmit.
SCOTT: Captain, h e won't have enough power to get back out if he diverts it to his shields.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): I heard, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: We diskussed that possibility earlier. But you will need this information.
KIRK (voiceover): When do you estimate penetration?
SPOCK: Slowing now. Contact in eighteen point three seconds. Brace yourselves. The area of penetration will no doubt be sensitive. Contact

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): In six seconds.
KIRK: Report, Mister Spock. Spock, report.
SPOCK (voiceover): I am undamaged, Captain. Relay to Mister Scott I had three percent power reserve before the shields stabilized.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: There was nothing to spare. I shall continue my tests. Oh, and Doctor McCoy. You would have not survived it.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: You want to bet?

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: I am moving slowly now, establishing course toward what appears to be the nucleus.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Sir, Mister Spock has reduced life-support systems to bare minimum.
KIRK: Spock, save your power for the shields.
SPOCK: Calculations indicate the shields will last only forty seven minutes.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): However, I am able to identify the chromosome structure.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Changes indicate the organism has stored sufficient energy for reproductive process to commence.

[Bridge]
KIRK: You mean there'll be two of those things?
SPOCK (voiceover): I'm having difficulty maintaining ship control.
KIRK: Spock, do you read me? Spock, do you read me?
SPOCK (voiceover): I'm losing voice contact I will transmit internal co-ordinates of chromosome bodies.
KIRK: Spock, come in. Come in.
UHURA: Contact lost, sir.
KIRK: He's alive! He's kicked it in the side to let us know.
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting telemetry.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, telemetry analysis as it comes in.
CHEKOV: According to Spock's telemetry information, there are over forty chromosomes in the nucleus that are ready to come together, ready to reproduce.
KIRK: If the energy of that organism only doubles, we're dead, and everything within a light year will be defenseless.
MCCOY: Well, all I know is, that soon there'll be two, four, eight, and more. The entire anti-life matter that that thing puts out could someday encompass the entire galaxy.
KIRK: Spock understood when he transmitted the co-ordinates of the chromosomes. We must destroy that organism.
SCOTT: Captain, the pull from that organism is increasing, and the power drain from our shields is getting critical.
KIRK: How much time do we have?
SCOTT: No more than an hour now, sir.
KIRK: Put all secondary systems on standby. Shield power has unconditional priority.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
UHURA: Captain, I'm receiving a message from Mister Spock on a low-energy channel. It's faint, but it is readable.
KIRK: Put it on, Lieutenant.
UHURA: On audio, sir.
SPOCK (voiceover): This is Spock.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: I am slowly losing life support and minimal shield energies. According to my calculations

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): The nervous energy of the organism is maximal just within its outer protective membrane. Relatively insensitive to interior irritation. I believe sufficient charge of could destroy the organism. Tell Doctor McCoy he should have wished me luck.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log stardate 4309.4. We have determined we can destroy the creature, provided we can do it from inside the organism. Spock clearly knew how to destroy it but was unable to transmit that information.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: How do you feel?
KIRK: What's on your mind?
MCCOY: Spock. Is it me, Jim? Am I so sentimental that I just have to keep believing that he's still alive in that mass of protoplasm?
KIRK: He knew the odds when he went out there, just as you did when you volunteered to go. What is that thing out there, Bones? It's not intelligent. Not yet.
MCCOY: It's a disease, like a virus invading the body of our galaxy.
KIRK: Yes, it is, isn't it? How many cells does the human body have?
MCCOY: Millions.
KIRK: This thing, this cell, this virus. It's eleven thousand miles long, and it's one cell. When it grows into millions, we'll be the virus invading its body.
MCCOY: Now, isn't that a thought? Here we are, antibodies of our own galaxy, attacking an invading germ. It would be ironic indeed if that were our sole destiny, wouldn't it?
KIRK: Antibodies. Antibodies. Bridge.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, how much power do we have left?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're down to forty three percent, sir. We're slipping a bit against the pull that beastie's putting on us.

[Kirk's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): We can't last more than forty five minutes at this rate of decline. Less, if I have to apply more thrust.
KIRK: What would happen if you diverted all remaining power to the shields, except for impulse power, keep that in reserve?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Cut the engine thrust? We'd be sucked into that thing like being caught in a wind tunnel, sir.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Exactly. Prepare to divert power on my signal. Kirk out.
KIRK: Have you got something to say?
MCCOY: Technically, no. Medically, yes. Between the stimulants and the pressure, I would suggest you try to stay off your feet for a few minutes.
KIRK: I don't have a few minutes, Bones. Maybe none of us do. Let's go.

[Bridge]
KIRK: All hands, this is the captain. We're going to enter the body of the organism rather abruptly, I would think. Damage control parties stand by. All decks secure for collision. Kirk out.
KIRK: Ready, Scotty.
SCOTT: Switching power to shields. Impulse in reserve. Cutting thrust to zero, now!
KYLE: Impact five seconds.
CHEKOV: We're through, sir.
KIRK: I believe everybody is aware of that, Mister Chekov.
UHURA: Damage control parties report minimal damage, sir. Repairs are being initiated.
KIRK: Very good, Lieutenant.
SCOTT: Captain, we've only twenty six percent power reserves after entry.
KIRK: Do we have impulse power, Scotty?
SCOTT: I saved all I could, sir, but I don't know whether we have enough to get back out again. Or time either.
KIRK: We are committed.
SCOTT: Aye, we are, but we're committed to what? We have no power for the phasers.
MCCOY: We couldn't use it. We'd cook ourselves along with that mess of protoplasm out there
KIRK: That thing would probably like phasers. It eats power.
SCOTT: Then what the devil, begging your pardon sir, are we doing?
KIRK: Mister Spock was trying to tell us what to do when we lost voice contact.
SCOTT: We can't use the power to destroy it.
KIRK: Anti-power.
MCCOY: What?
KIRK: This thing has a negative energy charge. Everything seems to work in reverse. We'll use anti-matter.
SCOTT: Aye, it couldn't swallow that.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, prepare a probe. Scotty, we'll need a magnetic bottle for the charge. How soon?
SCOTT: It's on its way, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, we'll use a timing detonator for the probe. Work out a setting.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Helmsman, when do you estimate arrival at nucleus?
KYLE: Seven minutes, sir.
MCCOY: How close are you going to it?
KIRK: Point blank range. We'll implant it then back away.
MCCOY: Why? The probe has a range of
KIRK: With the eddies and currents in that protoplasm, the probe could drift thousands of kilometers. We must be exactly on target, because we won't have a second chance. Bones, time for another stimulant.
MCCOY: How long do you think you can keep taking that stuff? It'll blow you apart.
KIRK: Keep me together for another seven minutes. That's all I need.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Personal log, Commander Spock, USS Enterprise. I have noted the passage of the Enterprise on its way to whatever awaits it. If this record should survive me, I wish it known that I bequeath my highest commendation and testimonial to the captain, officers, and crew of the Enterprise. The finest starship in the fleet.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We have arrived at the chromosome body in the nucleus of the organism. If we should fail in our attempt to destroy it, or be unable to free ourselves, I wish to record my recommendations for the following personnel, that they receive special citation. Lieutenant Commander Leonard McCoy, Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott, officers Chekov, Kyle, Uhura, and my highest commendation for Commander Spock, Science Officer, who gave his life in the performance of his duty.
CHEKOV: Target co-ordinates programd, sir. Probe ready for launch.
KIRK: Mister Scott, how much time do we have left at one hundred percent impulse power?
SCOTT: Six, maybe seven minutes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Kyle, program fuse for seven minute delay. All non-essential systems on standby. Communications, scanning, conserve every bit of power. We must make it through the membrane before that thing explodes. Make it work, Scotty.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: Programming complete. Ready for launch.
KIRK: Launch probe at zero acceleration. Forward thrust off, one tenth of a second.
KYLE: Forward thrust off, sir.
CHEKOV: Probe launched, sir.
MCCOY: Despite what Spock said, it's still plenty sensitive.
CHEKOV: Probe confirmed. It is lodged in the nucleus, near the chromosome bodies.
KIRK: Mister Kyle, back us out the way we came in. Mister Chekov, a nice, straight line. Don't waste any time.
KYLE: Backing out, sir.
CHEKOV: Estimate we'll be out in six point thirty seven minutes.
KIRK: Very good.
CHEKOV: Captain, metallic substance outside the ship.
MCCOY: Spock?
KIRK: Lieutenant, get me Spock's voice channel. Highest possible gain.
UHURA: Go ahead, sir.
KIRK: Spock, do you read me? Do you read me, Spock, do you read me? Come in, Spock. Spock! Scotty, get a tractor beam.
SCOTT: Captain, we don't have enough time to do it. We only have a fifty three second escape margin.
KIRK: I'm well aware of that, Mister Scott. Get two tractor beams on that shuttlecraft.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Tractor beams on.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, I recommend you abandon the attempt.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Do not risk the ship further on my behalf.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Shut up, Spock! We're rescuing you.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Captain McCoy.

[Bridge]
KYLE: Almost out. We're approaching the membrane, sir.
KIRK: Time until explosion?
CHEKOV: Fifty seven seconds, sir.
KIRK: Maintaining tractor beams on shuttlecraft, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. I can't guarantee it'll hold when the warhead explodes. The power levels are The power levels are dead, sir.
KIRK: You may have just written our epitaph, Mister Scott.
KIRK: Activate main viewing screen. Mister Chekov, report.
CHEKOV: The organism is destroyed, sir. The explosion must have ruptured the membrane and thrown us clear.
SCOTT: Power's coming back, sir.
KIRK: Shuttlecraft?
SCOTT: I don't know how, sir, but it's still with us.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Request permission to come aboard.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock, you're alive!

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Obviously, Captain. And I have some fascinating data on the organism.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Don't be so smart, Spock. You botched the acetylcholine test.
KIRK: Later, later, later. Bring the shuttlecraft aboard, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KYLE: Prepare to receive shuttlecraft. Received shuttlecraft. Hangar doors closed. Hangar deck pressurizing.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Starbase Six. Ahead warp factor five. I'm still looking forward to a nice period of rest and relaxation on some lovely planet.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Approaching Sigma Iotia Two, Captain.
KIRK: Standard orbit, Mister Chekov.
UHURA: Captain, I have received vocal contact from an official station. They relayed us to a man named Oxmyx. His title is Boss.
KIRK: Boss? All right, Lieutenant, put him on. Oxmyx. This is Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the Federation of Planets.
OXMYX (voiceover): Hello, Captain. You're from the same outfit as the Horizon?
KIRK: Yes. Unfortunately, the Horizon was lost with all hands shortly after leaving your planet. We only received her radio report last month.
OXMYX (voiceover): Last month? What are you talking about? The Horizon left here a hundred years ago.
KIRK: Difficult to explain. We received a report a hundred years late because it was sent by conventional radio. Your system is on the outer reaches of the galaxy. They didn't have subspace communication in those days.
OXMYX (voiceover): Toward the edge of what?
KIRK: I'll explain it in more detail when I see him. The ship won't land, but we'll transport several people down. Well, that's a little difficult for you to understand, too. I'll explain it in more detail when I see you. Where will be convenient?
OXMYX (voiceover): Well, there's an intersection just at the end of the block, near a yellow fire plug. Think you can find it?
KIRK: Scotty, do you have the co-ordinates?
SCOTT: Located, sir. KIRK; Good. Mister Oxmyx, we have your intersection located. Will five minutes be all right?
OXMYX (voiceover): Fine. Fine. I'll have a reception committee there to meet you.
KIRK: Good. I'll be looking forward to it. Kirk out. Scotty, you have the conn.
KIRK: Spock, McCoy, we're beaming down. Standard equipment.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: The Horizon's contact came before the Non-Interference Directive went into effect.
MCCOY: They must have interfered with the normal evolution of the planet.
SPOCK: It will be interesting to see the results of the contamination.
KIRK: We don't know there is contamination. The evidence is only circumstantial.
MCCOY: What was the state of the Iotian culture before the Horizon came?
KIRK: The beginnings of industrialisation.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Horizon reports indicate the Iotians are extremely intelligent and somewhat imitative.
MCCOY: So we're going down to recontaminate them.
SPOCK: The damage has been done, Doctor. We are here to repair it.
KIRK: Let's not argue about it. Let's go study it. Energize.

[Street]
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: This is like coming home.
KIRK: Home was never like this. I've seen pictures of the old days that look like this.
SPOCK: Interesting, Captain. Passers-by are carrying, I believe, firearms.
KALO: Okay, you three, let's see you petrify.
SPOCK: Sir, would you mind explaining that statement, please?
KALO: I want to see you turn to stone. Put your hands over your head, or you ain't going to have no head to put your hands over.
KALO: What's this?
KIRK: That's a weapon. Be careful with that.
KALO: A heater, huh? Hey, the boss will love that.
KIRK: Look, we were asked to come down here by Mister Oxmyx. He said
KALO: I know what he said, bud. He said some of the boys would meet you. Okay, we're meeting you.
MCCOY: Well, those firearms are not necessary.
KALO: You trying to make trouble?
MCCOY: Who, me?
KALO: Don't give me those baby blue eyes.
MCCOY: What?
KALO: I don't go for that innocent routine.
SPOCK: Sir, does everyone here carry firearms?
KALO: I never heard such stupid questions in my life.
MCCOY: Well, since this Oxmyx asked us down here, don't you think we should see him?
KALO: All right. Get moving. Down the street.
KALO: Krako's getting more gall all the time .
KIRK: Is this how you greet all your guests?
KALO: It happens, pal.
MCCOY: That man's dead back there.
KALO: Yeah? We ain't playing for peanuts. What's the matter, you guys never saw a hit before?
SPOCK: Sir, there are several questions I would like to ask.
KALO: Ask the boss. I don't know nothing. Get moving.
MCCOY: This is the contamination you're looking for, Jim.
KIRK: Yes, but the Horizon crew wasn't composed of cold-blooded killers. They didn't report this culture in this state, either. What happened?
WOMAN: Hey, Kalo. Hey, when's the boss going to do something about the crummy street lights around here, eh? A girl ain't safe.
WOMAN 2: And how about the laundry pickup? We ain't had a truck by in three weeks.
KALO: Write him a letter.
WOMAN 2: I did. He sent it back with postage due.
WOMAN: Listen, we pay our percentages. We're entitled to a little service for our money.
KALO: Get lost, will ya? Some people got nothing to do but complain.
KIRK: Is this the way your citizens do business, their right of petition?
KALO: They pay their percentages and the boss takes care of them.

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: Hit that button. Yeah?
KALO (voiceover): Got them, Boss. No sweat.
OXMYX: All right. Bring them in. Which one of you is the captain?
KIRK: Depends.
OXMYX: Make yourself a drink, Captain. It's good stuff. I distilll it myself.
KIRK: No, thank you. You're Mister Oxmyx.
OXMYX: That's me, pal.
KIRK: This is my first officer, Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy.
OXMYX: Doctor, huh? Put that chopper down, Kalo. These guys are our guests. Pick up a cue, Captain. Go ahead. You can't be too careful around here these days.
MCCOY: Yes. Judging from what we've seen so far, I agree.
KIRK: They call you The Boss, Mister Oxmyx. The boss of what?
OXMYX: The boss of my territory. I got the biggest in the world. You know, there's one thing wrong with having the biggest. There's always some punk trying to cut you out. That's why you can't be too careful.
KIRK: You're the government here?
OXMYX: What government? Look, I told you. I got the territory and I run it. That's all.
KIRK: But there are other bosses, other territories?
OXMYX: Yeah, sure. Maybe a dozen or so, not counting the small fry, but then they get burned anyway soon as I get around to it.
SPOCK: Does that include, if I may ask, a gentleman called Krako?
OXMYX: How do you know about Krako?
KALO: He hit us, Boss.
OXMYX: Okay. You hit him back, you hear? Hard.
KALO: I'll take care of it.
SPOCK: Captain? Gangsters. Chicago. Mobs. Published in 1992. Where'd you get this?
OXMYX: Hey, wait a minute. That's the Book.
KIRK: I know it's a book.
OXMYX: The Book. They left it, the other ship. The Horizon.
SPOCK: This is the contamination, Captain. Astonishing. An entire culture based on this.
MCCOY: You said they were imitative, and the book
OXMYX: I don't want any more cracks about the Book.
KIRK: Did they leave any other books?
OXMYX: Sure. Some text books on how to make radio sets and stuff like that, but, look, I brought you here so you could help me, not for you to ask me questions. After that, I'll answer anything you want to know.
KIRK: What is it you want?
OXMYX: Well, I was thinking. You Feds must have made a lot of improvements since that other ship came here. You probably got all kinds of fancy heaters up there. So here's the deal. You give me all the heaters I need. Enough tools so I can knock off those punks all at once. Then I'll take over, and all you'll have to do is deal with me.
KIRK: Now let me get this straight. You want us to supply you with arms and assistance so you can carry out an aggression against your neighbors?
OXMYX: What aggression? I got to make hits. I want you to help me hit them. That's all.
SPOCK: Fascinating, but quite impossible.
KIRK: Mister Oxmyx, my orders are quite explicit. Under no circum
OXMYX: I ain't interested in your orders. From now on, you're gonna take orders from me. I'm gonna give you just eight hours to give me the things I want. If I don't have those tools by then, I'm gonna call up your ship and have them pick you up in a box. Is that understood, pal?
KALO: Hey, Boss, this here's a heater, and I don't know what this is.
OXMYX: Let's see how this thing works.
KIRK: Don't do that. You could knock out the side of the building.
OXMYX: That good, huh? All you have to do is give me about a hundred of these fancy heaters and we'll have no more trouble.
KIRK: Out of the question.
OXMYX: Captain Kirk, I usually get what I want. What's this thing? All right. Burn him.
KIRK: Hold it. It's a communication device.
OXMYX: How does it work?
KIRK: It's locked onto my ship's systems.
OXMYX: Kalo, take them to the warehouse and put them in a bag. Keep a sharp eye on them, you hear.
KALO: In the bag, Boss. Come on.
OXMYX: Hey, you. In the ship up there.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): Hey, you in the ship.
SCOTT: Scott here. Who's this?

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: This is Bela Oxmyx. I got your captain and his friends down here. You want to see them alive

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): Again you'll send me down a hundred of these fancy heaters you've got, and some troops to show me how to use them.
SCOTT: Am I to understand that you're holding the captain and his party?

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: You heard right, pal. I'm going to give you just eight hours to get me the goods I want, or I put the hit on your friends.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): You understand?
SCOTT: I don't know. Lieutenant Hadley, check the language banks and find out what a heater is.

[Warehouse]
MCCOY: One book on the gangs of Chicago did all this. It's amazing.
SPOCK: They evidently seized upon that one book as the blueprint for an entire society.
MCCOY: It's the Bible.
KIRK: In old Chicago, conventional government almost broke down. The gangs nearly took over.
MCCOY: Yeah, well, Oxmyx is the worst gangster of all.
SPOCK: We may quarrel with Mister Oxmyx' methods, but his goal is essentially the correct one. This society must become united or it will degenerate into total anarchy.
KIRK: If this society broke down as the result of the Horizon's influence, then the Federation's responsible, and we've got to do something to straighten this mess out. Spock, if you could get to the sociological computer, do you think you could find a solution?
SPOCK: Unfortunately, I do not have access to my computers, nor are these gentlemen likely to permit it.
KIRK: Well, I've got an idea about that. Gentlemen. Gentlemen. This, card game is a kid's game.
KALO: You think so, huh?
KIRK: Oh, yes, yes. I wouldn't waste my time.
KALO: Who's asking you?
KIRK: On Beta Antares Four, they play a real game. It's a man's game, but of course it's probably a little beyond you. It requires intelligence.
KALO: Listen, Kirk, I can play anything you can figure out. Take the cards, big man. Show us how it's played.
SPOCK: I'm familiar with the culture on Beta Antares. There aren't games
KIRK: Spock. Spock. Of course, the cards on Beta Antares Four are different, but not too different. The name of the game is called fizzbin.
KALO: Fizzbin?
KIRK: Fizzbin. It's not too difficult. Each player gets six cards, except for the player on the dealer's right, who gets seven.
KALO: On the right.
KIRK: Yes. The second card is turned up, except on Tuesdays.
KALO: On Tuesday.
KIRK: Oh, look what you got, two jacks. You got a half fizzbin already.
KALO: I need another jack.
KIRK: No, no. If you got another jack, why, you'd have a sralk.
KALO: A sralk?
KIRK: Yes. You'd be disqualified. You need a king and a deuce, except at night of course, when you'd need a queen and a four.
KALO: Except at night.
KIRK: Right. Oh, look at that. You've got another jack. How lucky you are! How wonderful for you. If you didn't get another jack, if you'd gotten a king, why then you'd get another card, except when it's dark, you'd give it back.
KALO: If it were dark on Tuesday.
KIRK: Yes, but what you're after is a royal fizzbin, but the odds in getting a royal fizzbin are astron. Spock, what are the odds in getting a royal fizzbin?
SPOCK: I have never computed them, Captain.
KIRK: Well, they're astronomical, believe me. Now, for the last card. We'll call it a kronk. You got that?
KALO: What?
KALO: I'll get it.
KIRK: Spock, find the radio station. Uhura's monitoring the broadcasts. Cut in and have yourselves beamed up to the ship.
SPOCK: Surely, you're coming, Captain.
KIRK: I will, but I'm bringing Bela Oxmyx with me.
MCCOY: Jim, you can't
KIRK: Bones, this mess is our responsibility. You have your orders. Let's go.

[Alleyway]
ZABO: Hold it! Okay, pally, we're going for a ride.
KIRK: If you don't mind, I'd rather walk.
ZABO: Listen, pally, this could either be a taxi or a hearse. You know what I mean?
KIRK: I'm beginning to get the idea.

[Radio station]
MCCOY: You do that very well. Now, how are you with primitive radio equipment?
SPOCK: Very simple. Amplitude modulation transmission. I simply adjust the frequency, throw this switch, and the Enterprise should answer.
VOICE (voiceover): That was the Jailbreakers with their latest recording on Request Time, brought to you by Bang-Bang, the makers of the sweetest little automatic in the world
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: And very simple.
SPOCK: Let me see. Enterprise, this is Mister Spock.
UHURA (voiceover): Lieutenant Uhura here, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Spock, what are you doing on this frequency?

[Radio station]
SPOCK: A very long and complicated story, Lieutenant. Notify the transporter room, Two to beam up, these co-ordinates.

[Krako's office]
KRAKO: So you're the Fed, huh? Well, well, well, well, well.
KIRK: And you?
KRAKO: Krako. JoJo Krako. I'm the head of the whole Southside Territory. Hey, glad to see you.
KIRK: Would you mind telling me how you even know who I am?
KRAKO: Sit down, Kirk. I've got all of Bela's communications bugged. He can't make a date with a broad unless I know about it. Well, I guess you want to know why I brought you here.
KIRK: You want to make a deal.
KRAKO: Hey, I like that. That is sharp. That's sharp, eh, Zabo?
ZABO: Sharp, Boss.
KRAKO: That's right, a deal. I want you to help me.
KIRK: Let me guess. You want, you'll want heaters, and then you'll want troops to teach them how to use them. And then you'll attack the other bosses and take over the whole planet. Then we'll sit down and talk, right?
KRAKO: Wrong! I know Bela. He didn't offer you beans. Now, me, I'm a reasonable man. You give me what I want and I'll cut you in for, say, a third. Skimmed right off the top. Well, what do you think?
KIRK: I got a better idea. This planet has to be united. You know that. Bela knows that. Let's sit down. You, me, Bela. Diskuss this whole matter, contact the other bosses, and talk about it like reasonable men.
KRAKO: You watch it, Kirk. The Book tells us how to handle things. You make hits. Somebody argues, you lean on 'em. What do you think, we're stupid or something?
KIRK: No, I don't think you're stupid. I just think your behavior is arrested.
KRAKO: I haven't been arrested in my whole life! Listen, pally, I know how to get what I want. You want to live, don't you, Kirk? You bet you do. But after I get through with you, you're liable to be sorry unless you come across. Hold him here. Tell Cirl the Knife to sharpen up his blade. I just might have a job for him. Unless you come across with the heaters.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Krako. No deal.
KRAKO: That's too bad. Put him on ice!

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Well?
SPOCK: Futile, Doctor. No specifics. There is no record of such a culture based on a moral inversion.
MCCOY: You mean you're giving up?
SPOCK: No, Doctor. I'm merely saying the computers can offer us no logical, rational, factual way out of our current dilemma.
UHURA: Mister Spock, Mister Oxmyx is making contact from the surface.
SPOCK: On audio, Lieutenant. Mister Oxmyx, this is Mister Spock.
OXMYX (voiceover): Huh? Hey, how'd you get back up there?
SPOCK: Irrelevant, since we are here.

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: Oh, yeah. I tell you, you'd better come on back down.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): Krako's put the bag on your captain.
SPOCK: Why would he put a bag on our captain?

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: Kidnapped him, you dope.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): He'll scrag him, too.
SPOCK: If I understand you correctly, that would seem to be a problem.

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: Look, you guys got something I want. I can help you get your captain back.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): Then we can talk about the deal I want.
SPOCK: I'm afraid I find it difficult to trust you, Mister Oxmyx.

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: What's to trust? Business is business. We'll call a truce. You come on down.

[Bridge]
OXMYX (voiceover): My boys'll spring Kirk, and then we'll talk about giving me a hand.
SPOCK: You'll show no further hostility?

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: I'm a businessman, pally. What do ya say?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Since we must have our captain back, I accept.

[Oxmyx's office]
SPOCK (voiceover): We shall arrive in your office within ten minutes. Spock out.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: You mean you're going to trust him?
SPOCK: If we are to save the captain without blatant, forceful interference on this planet, Doctor, we must have the assistance of someone indigenous. We are therefore forced to trust Mister Oxmyx.

[Small office]
KIRK: Help me! Help! Help me!

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, though we hope to avoid interference, I suggest you set one of our phaser banks on a strong stun position.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Now you're beginning to make sense.
SPOCK: I trust we shall not have to use them, but it is best to be prepared. Energize.

[Oxmyx's office]
OXMYX: You know what to do.
KALO: Don't worry, Boss. They can't do nothing till they're through sparkling.
OXMYX: Just the same, you be careful. They'll have heaters on them. Now you watch this. Ship's log. Mister Spock reporting. Incredible as it seems, Doctor McCoy and I are once again prisoners of the chief criminal boss of a society patterned after old Earth gangsters.
OXMYX: Pick up many more of these, I won't need your co-operation.
SPOCK: Mister Oxmyx, I understood we had an arrangement, a truce.
OXMYX: I was hoping you'd think that, dummy.
MCCOY: We're trying to help you, Oxmyx.
OXMYX: Nobody helps nobody but himself.
SPOCK: Sir, you are employing a double negative.
OXMYX: Huh?
SPOCK: I fail to see why you do not understand us. You yourself have stated the need for unity of authority on this planet. We agree.
OXMYX: Yeah, but I got to be the unity.
SPOCK: Co-operation, sir, would inevitably result
OXMYX: The most co-operative man in this world is a dead man. And if you don't keep your mouth shut, you're going to be co-operatin'.
KIRK: Drop the guns. Drop 'em. Move down there.
OXMYX: Hey, Captain, you got away from Krako. You know, that ain't easy.
KIRK: I thought you were supposed to report to the ship, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: We did, Captain. The situation required our return.
KIRK: It may be just as well. Did you find out anything from the computer?
SPOCK: Nothing useful. Logic and practical information do not seem to apply here.
MCCOY: You admit that?
SPOCK: To deny the facts would be illogical, Doctor.
KIRK: Then you don't mind if I play a hunch?
SPOCK: I'm not sanguine about hunches, Captain, but I have no practical alternative.
MCCOY: What are we going to do now, Jim?
KIRK: Well, now that we have Bela, I'm going to put the bag on Krako. Listen, you. Say, that's nice material.
MAN: It ought to be. It cost a bundle. KIRK; Get out of 'em.
MAN: Hey!
KIRK: I said.
KALO: Now just a minute.
KIRK: You too! Get out of the clothes. Nobody's going to put the bag on me any more.

[Street]
KIRK: Wheels, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: A fliwer, Captain.
KIRK: Key in the ignition. Turn the ignition on. And nothing happens. Where's the starter? There's the starter. Yes!
SPOCK: Interesting.
KIRK: Oops! Gears.
SPOCK: Yes. Oh. I believe they had a device known as a clutch. Clutch, Captain. Perhaps one of those pedals on the floor.
KIRK: I kind of like this. I'm going to get one myself.
SPOCK: Captain, you are an excellent starship commander, but as a taxi driver you leave much to be desired.
KIRK: It was that bad?
KIRK: Now, that could be a bit of a problem. If they were inside, where they couldn't be seen, we could stun them with our phasers, but not out here.
SPOCK: If we can get close enough to them, we should be able to render them harmless with reasonable rapidity.
KIRK: They don't look like the trusting type.
BOY: It's a hit, ain't it?
SPOCK: I beg your pardon?
BOY: You're going to hit somebody. Can I watch?
KIRK: Young man, run along and play.
BOY: Where'd you get them ears?
SPOCK: Young man
BOY: You going to hit Krako out here? You open up and you'll be scragged from every window in the street. I can fix it for ya.
SPOCK: Young man, this is likely to be quite hazardous.
KIRK: Hold on, Spock. Out of the mouths of babes
BOY: Who you callin' a babe?
KIRK: I'm calling you a babe.
BOY: You calling me a babe?
KIRK: Yeah I'm calling you a babe, but there's nothing personal in it. Sit down. You know a way we can get close to them?
BOY: Sure.
KIRK: How?
BOY: What's in it for me?
KIRK: What do you want?
BOY: A piece of the action.
SPOCK: You do not even know what the action is going to be.
BOY: I figure it's got to be a thick percentage or you wouldn't be trying to hit Krako.
SPOCK: Logical.
KIRK: All right, young man. We'll guarantee you a piece of the action if we can pull this thing off.
BOY: Is that a contract?
KIRK: Done. What do we do?
BOY: You'll know what to do.
BOY: And that! And how do you like that? Think you can gang up on me, huh? What are you, chicken?
BOY: Come on, why don't you gang up on me? I'll cut off your head and throw it in your face! Take that, and that, and falls over) Daddy, Daddy, I hurt myself!
KIRK: That's it. Let's go.
GUARD: What's the matter? Did you hurt yourself, kid?
BOY: I want my daddy!
GUARD: Cute kid, ain't he?
BOY: Daddy! I want my daddy!
KIRK: Sonny!
BOY: I want my daddy.
KIRK: Sonny! Wait a moment. What have they done? What have they done to you? What have you done?
KIRK: A piece of the action.

[Krako's HQ]
KIRK: No one can see. Put your phaser on stun.
KRAKO: Well, ain't this nice? I was wondering how I was going to get you back, and here you deliver yourself! Who's your friend with the ears, Kirk?
KIRK: I think you've got it reversed, Mister Krako.
KRAKO: I ain't, pally. Put down your heaters.
SPOCK: Captain, I believe that perhaps it would be wise to do as he says. I just heard the sound of
KIRK: The sound of a machine gun bolt being pulled back.
KIRK: Mister Krako, I don't, er
KRAKO: So this is the fancy heater, huh? How does it work?
KIRK: I'm trying to tell you, Mister Krako, that this is bigger than you, Oxmyx or anyone.
KRAKO: The only thing I want you to tell me is how it works.
KIRK: Can you trust all your men?
KRAKO: Of course I can!
KIRK: Well, one of these can make a man a pretty big boss, you know.
KRAKO: I either trust 'em, or they're dead. Let's go in here and talk about it.

[Krako's office]
KRAKO: Now we got no busy little eyes to worry about. How does this thing work?
KIRK: All right, Krako, we don't have time to show you how to play with toys!
KRAKO: Toys?
KIRK: What do you think we're here for, to get a cut of your deal? Forget it. That's peanuts to an outfit like the Federation. Right?
SPOCK: Unquestionably.
KIRK: Right?
SPOCK: Right.
KIRK: Now look, Krako, we're taking over the whole ball of wax. You co-operate with us and maybe we'll cut you in for a piece of the action.
SPOCK: A miniscule. A very small piece.
KRAKO: How much is that?
KIRK: That's, er. We'll figure it out later.
KRAKO: I thought you guys had laws. No interference.
KIRK: Who's interfering? We're taking over. Check?
SPOCK: Right.
KIRK: The planet is being taken over by the Federation, but we don't want to come in here and use our muscle, you know what I mean? That ain't subtle. So what we do is we help one guy take over the planet. He pulls the strings, and then we pull his. Hey, you, sit down.
KRAKO: What's your cut?
KIRK: What do you care as long as you're being cut in? Course, there's always Bela Oxmyx.
KRAKO: All right, it's a deal. Call your ship. Bring down your boys and whatever else you need.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise. Scott here.
KIRK: All right, Scotty. We made a deal with Krako.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We did, sir?

[Krako's office]
KIRK: Yeah. We're ready to make the hit. We're taking over the whole planet as soon as you get ready.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Do you think that's wise, sir?

[Krako's office]
KIRK: Sure. We can trust Krako, but we don't have any choice. You know what I mean? He's standing about twelve feet in front of me, all ready to be our pal.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Of course, Scotty, I'd like to show him the ship, just to show him that we're, er, we're on the level. But you know how it is.
SCOTT: Aye. I know indeed.

[Krako's office]
KIRK: Scotty, we'll need phasers to equip every one of Krako's men. We'll need advisors and troops to back him up on the hit. You got all that, Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain. We're preparing everything. It'll be ready when you give the word.

[Krako's office]
KIRK: You may begin, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain.
KRAKO: You mean you're going to start sending down your boys now?
KIRK: Not exactly.
KIRK: Right?
SPOCK: Check.

[Transporter room]
KRAKO: How the hell'd I get here? What? What happened? You. You must be that Scott fellow Kirk was talking to. I want to know what happened.
SCOTT: It looks like we put the bag on you, doesn't it.
KRAKO: I got rights.
SCOTT: You've got nothing. You mind your place, mister, or you'll be wearing concrete galoshes.
KRAKO: You mean cement overshoes?
SCOTT: Er. Aye.

[Street]
SPOCK: Must we?
KIRK: It's faster than walking.
SPOCK: But not as safe.
KIRK: Are you afraid of cars?
SPOCK: Not at all, Captain. It's your driving that alarms me.
KIRK: Spock, I've got the hang of it. Now go on.

[Krako's office]
ZABO: Oh, not again. Hey, wake up. You all right? Hey, you guys. Come in here. The Feds snatched Krako. I never seen anything like it. They're going to move in unless we stop 'em now.
GUARD: Yeah? How?
ZABO: Well, Bela's mixed up in this somehow. I've got a sneaking hunch they're going to high-tail it back to his territory. You know what we're going to do? We're going to hit his place.

[Oxmyx's office]
MCCOY: Where are they?
OXMYX: Knowing Krako, he'll probably send them back on a blotter.
KIRK: Wrong again, Oxmyx.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Knock it off, Sawbones. I want to talk to this creep. Now listen, I'm getting tired of playing pattycake with you penny-ante operators.
OXMYX: What do you mean, penny-ante operator?
KIRK: You're a penny-ante operator. Sit down. All right, Spocko, cover him. Now listen, sweetheart. The Federation's moving in, taking over. You play ball, we'll cut you in. You don't, you're out. All the way out. You know what I mean?
OXMYX: Yeah, sure. Why didn't you say so in the first place? All you had to do was explain it to me.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Enterprise. Scott here, sir.

[Oxmyx's office]
KIRK: You got Krako on ice?
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, he's here. Mad enough

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: To chew neutronium, but behaving himself.
KIRK (voiceover): Okay, baby. Cool him till I flag you.
SCOTT: Flag me?

[Oxmyx's office]
KIRK: Keep him until I send for him. We're going to make some old-style phone calls from this locale. So you locate the man on the other end of the blower and give him a ride to this flop.
SCOTT (voiceover): What?
KIRK: Find the man at the other end of the phone

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): And transport him to these co-ordinates.

[Oxmyx's office]
KIRK: Can do, sweetheart?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Can do, Captain.

[Oxmyx's office]
SCOTT (voiceover): Standing by.
KIRK: Now you. Get on the blower and call the other bosses.
OXMYX: I sure don't know what you think you're talking about.
KIRK: Get with it. I'm giving the orders here.
OXMYX: Hello. Hello?
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
OXMYX: Guess who?
KIRK: Lock in and energize.
OXMYX: Yeah, you bet your life I've got a lot of nerve. What are you going to do about it?
TEPO: Coming over with my boys and we Mother.
OXMYX: Hey, Captain, that ain't bad.
KIRK: Yeah.
SPOCK: I would advise you to keep dialing, Oxmyx.

[Krako's office]
ZABO: All right. You know what to do. We hit Bela's place and nobody comes out alive. All right. Let's go.

[Oxmyx's office]
KIRK: All right! All right! All right! All right! Now the Federation's taking over whether you like it or not. You people, you've been running this planet like a piecework factory. From now on, it's going to be under one roof. You're going to run it like a business. That means you're going to make a profit.
TEPO: And what's your percentage?
KIRK: I'm cutting the Federation in for forty percent. You got any objections?
TEPO: Yeah! I hear a lot of talk, but all I see here is you and a couple of your boys. I don't see no Federation.
KRAKO: Listen. They got a ship. I know. I was there.
OXMYX: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Tepo's got a point. All we ever seen is them.
TEPO: What, a couple of boys?
KRAKO: I'm not going to believe my eyes.
KIRK: Hang on a minute. Hang on a minute. Quiet! Just a moment!
KRAKO: Let me say something. I only saw three guys in that ship. Maybe there ain't no more.
KIRK: There are over four hundred guys there.
KRAKO: That's your story, buster.
KRAKO: Hey, it's my boys. They're making a hit at this place.
OXMYX: My boys will put you down.
KRAKO: Want to bet? Keep moving. One move out of you two, I'll drill them. Give me the hardware.
OXMYX: Hey, that's great, Krako. Now we got hostages again. We can make a deal with the Feds up there.
KRAKO: Are you kidding? This one's all mine. From now on, nobody's going no place. I'm going to be the big boss in this here territory.
KIRK: Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Get that heater down. Don't you want to take a look at what you're going to fight?
KRAKO: I already seen it. You're nothing, Fed.
KIRK: All right, but at least let me call my ship one last time and say goodbye.
KRAKO: Well, all right. Go ahead. Don't get smart.
KIRK: Hello, Scotty. This is Kirk.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Enterprise. Scott here, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Scotty, put the ship's phasers on stun. Fire a burst in a one-block radius around these co-ordinates.
SCOTT: Right away, sir. Scott out.

[Oxmyx's office]
KRAKO: Gee, that's some trick.
OXMYX: Hey, did you see that?
KIRK: They're not dead, just knocked out for a while. But they might just as well have been that way if we wanted them to.
OXMYX: Okay, okay, Kirk, so we get the message. Now, what was this syndicate deal you were talking about?
TEPO: He was talking about a percentage.
KIRK: I was talking about both.
OXMYX: Okay. A syndicate makes sense to me. I'm a peaceful man at heart, but I'm sick and tired of all these hits. I hit Krako, Krako hits Tepo, Tepo hits me. There's too many bosses. We can't get anything done. I was thinking if there was just one, maybe somebody like you, as the top boss, then we can get things done.
KIRK: Hey, Bela, no, no, no. The Federation can't get connected with a small-time operation like this. No, I was thinking, Bela, you would be the top boss. Krako, you'd be his lieutenant. The rest of you, I don't want any trouble from the rest of you because you'll have to answer to the Federation. We'll be back every year to collect our cut.
TEPO: Look, you figure maybe forty percent's enough?
KIRK: Yeah, I think forty percent's sufficient.
OXMYX: It's reasonable. It sounds reasonable. That sound reasonable to you?
KIRK: It's reasonable, Mister Oxmyx. Let's break out some of your drinking stuff and celebrate the syndicate.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Gentlemen, you two have been brooding ever since we returned to the ship.
SPOCK: Brooding, Captain?
KIRK: Brooding, Mister Spock. A somber, emotional state. Now, do you wish to continue it or are you going to diskuss it?
SPOCK: Captain, I'm neither brooding nor somber. But I do have reservations about your solution to the problem of the Iotians.
KIRK: Ah, yes. I understand that. You don't think it's logical to leave a criminal organization in charge.
SPOCK: Highly irregular, to say the least, Captain. I'm also curious as to how you propose to explain to Starfleet Command that a starship will be sent each year to collect our cut.
KIRK: Yes, that's a very good question, Mister Spock. I propose our cut be put into the planetary treasury and used to guide the Iotians into a more ethical system. Despite themselves, they'll be forced to accept conventional responsibilities. Isn't that logical? All right, Bones, in the language of the planet, what's your beef?
MCCOY: I don't know how serious this is, Jim, and I don't quite know how to tell you
KIRK: Go ahead.
MCCOY: But in all the confusion I
KIRK: Tell me.
MCCOY: I think I left it in Bela's office.
KIRK: You left it?
MCCOY: Somewhere. I'm not certain.
KIRK: You're not certain of what?
MCCOY: I left my communicator.
KIRK: In Bela's office?
SPOCK: Captain. If the Iotians, who are very bright and imitative people, should take that communicator apart
KIRK: They will, they will. And they'll find out how the transtator works.
SPOCK: The transtator is the basis for every important piece of equipment that we have.
KIRK: Everything.
MCCOY: You really think it's that serious?
KIRK: Serious? Serious, Bones? It upsets the whole percentage.
MCCOY: How do you mean?
KIRK: Well, in a few years, the Iotians may demand a piece of our action.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: No life form readings, Captain. Continuing scan.
MCCOY: Well, somebody sent a distress call.
KIRK: No sign of the spaceship. No sign of debris.
SPOCK: I am getting readings on small metallic objects, Captain. It is possible the ship was destroyed in space and the survivors proceeded here in a shuttle craft.
KIRK: But where are they?
THOMPSON: Captain, I'm getting a reading now. Two human forms at bearing three hundred mark seven.
SPOCK: Confirmed.
KIRK: I'm Captain James T. Kirk, of the starship Enterprise. We came in answer to your distress call.
ROJAN: It was very kind of you to respond so quickly, captain. Now you will surrender your ship to me.
KIRK: You have a very strange sense of humor, Mister
ROJAN: I am Rojan of Kelva. I am your commander from this moment on. Any efforts to resist us or to escape will be severely punished. Soon we, and you, will leave this galaxy forever. You humans must face the end of your existence as you have known it. You are all paralyzed by a selective field that neutralizes nerve impulses to the voluntary muscles. We can control you at will. I will now release you.
KIRK: Stay there.
THOMPSON: Captain.
KIRK: It's all right.
SPOCK: Interesting. A neural field?
ROJAN: Yes. Radiating from a central projector.
KIRK: What do you want?
ROJAN: Your ship, Captain Kirk. It will serve us well in the long voyage that is to come.
KIRK: Voyage? Where?
ROJAN: To your neighboring galaxy, which you call Andromeda.
KIRK: Andromeda? Why?
ROJAN: It is our home.
SPOCK: What brings you here?
ROJAN: Within ten millennia, high radiation levels in our galaxy will make life there impossible. So the Kelvan Empire sent forth ships to explore other galaxies, to search for one which our race could conquer and occupy.
KIRK: Well, sorry. This galaxy is already occupied.
ROJAN: Captain, you think you are unconquerable and your ship impregnable, but while we've talked, the capture has already begun.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Something penetrating from the planet.
SCOTT: Increase power to shields.
CHEKOV: It's dead, sir. All major power disabled.
SCOTT: Sound Red Alert.
UHURA: Red Alert. All personnel, man your battle stations. Go to Red Alert.
SCOTT: Engineering, come in.
UHURA: Life support, come in.
HANAR: Drea, Tomar, report.

[Life support]
DREA: Life support control, secure.

[Engineering]
TOMAR: Engineering is secure.

[Bridge]
HANAR: Rojan, Hanar here.

[Planet surface]
ROJAN: Report, Hanar.
HANAR (voiceover): The ship is ours. We control the bridge, engineering, and life support systems.
ROJAN: Proceed with your orders.
KIRK: What's the point of capturing my ship? Even at maximum warp, the Enterprise couldn't get to Andromeda galaxy for thousands of years.
ROJAN: Captain, we will modify its engines, in order to produce velocities far beyond the reach of your science. The journey between galaxies will take less than three hundred of your years. Spock Fascinating. Intergalactic travel requiring only three hundred years. That is a leap far beyond anything man has yet accomplished.
THOMPSON: You made a voyage of three hundred years?
KELINDA: Our ships were of multigeneration design. We were born in the intergalactic void. We shall die there during our return journey.
ROJAN: And our mission will be completed by a commander who is my descendant.
KIRK: What happened to your ship?
ROJAN: There is an energy barrier at the rim of your galaxy.
KIRK: Yes, I know. We've been there.
ROJAN: We managed to break through it with great difficulty. Our ship was destroyed. We barely managed to escape in a lifecraft. And now we have the means to begin our journey back to Andromeda.
SPOCK: Why use our vessel? Why not transmit a message to your galaxy?
ROJAN: No form of transmission can penetrate the barrier.
KIRK: Rojan, there's no reason to do this by force. Let's take your problem to the Federation. Research expeditions have catalogd hundreds of uninhabited planets in this galaxy suitable for colonization.
ROJAN: We do not colonize. We conquer. We rule. There's no other way for us.
MCCOY: In other words, the galaxy isn't big enough for both of us.
KIRK: The Federation has handled foreign invasions before.
ROJAN: Captain, we can control the Federation as easily as we can control you. The fate of the inferior in any galaxy.
HANAR: All is proceeding according to plan, Rojan.
ROJAN: Kelinda, take them to the holding area. We'll keep you and your party here, Captain. Your crew will undoubtedly wish to co-operate with us if they understand that you are hostages.
KELINDA: Move there.
HANAR: Tomar has examined the ship. The modifications are underway.
ROJAN: Space again, Hanar. I do not think we could have kept our sanity living too long on this accursed planet.
HANAR: It is an undiskiplined environment. One cannot control it. Yet there are things of interest.
ROJAN: Yes, but disturbing. These shells in which we've encased ourselves, they have such heightened senses. To feel. To hear. To smell. How do humans manage to exist in these fragile cases?
HANAR: Since the ship was designed to sustain these forms, we have little choice.
ROJAN: At least we'll be away from all of this openness. This is too strange for us, Hanar. We are creatures of outer space, and soon we will be safe in the comforting closeness of walls.

[Cell]
SPOCK: Fascinating material. Similar to diburnium, but considerably more dense. I doubt even phaser fire could disturb its molecular structure.
KIRK: All right. We can't break out. There must be another way.
THOMPSON: Captain, what do they want from us. What kind of people are they?
KIRK: That's a very good question.
MCCOY: They registered as human.
SPOCK: No, Doctor. More than that. They registered as perfect human life forms. I recall noting the readings were almost classic textbook responses. Most curious.
KIRK: Spock, what are the odds in such absolute duplication of life forms in another galaxy?
SPOCK: The chances are very much against it.
GUARD: Captain. Captain. However perfect they are, there don't seem to be very many of them. Why...
KIRK: They have the paralysis field. Rojan mentioned something about a central projector.
MCCOY: Yes. If we could put that out of operation, we might have a chance.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, I'm constrained to point out we do not even know what this projector looks like.
KIRK: Those devices on their belts might indicate the source of the force field.
SPOCK: Possible. I would have to have one to examine.
GUARD: You'll have one, sir, if I have to rip one of the Kelvans apart to get it for you.
KIRK: You'll get your chance, but you'll do it under orders.
GUARD: Yes, sir.
KIRK: On Eminiar Seven, you were able to trick the guard by a Vulcan mind probe.
SPOCK: Yes, I recall, Captain. I led him to believe we had escaped.
KIRK: Do you think you can do it again?
SPOCK: I shall attempt it.
KIRK: Are you all right?
SPOCK: Yes, I will be all right, Captain. We must hurry.

[Planet surface]
ROJAN: This cannot go unpunished. Hanar. That one. Take him aside. Kelinda, the female.
THOMPSON: Captain?
ROJAN: Go. As a leader, you realize the importance of diskipline. I need you and these other specialists, but those two are unnecessary.
KIRK: I'm responsible. Let them go.
ROJAN: I think we're somewhat alike, Captain. Each of us cares less for his own safety than for the lives of his command. We feel pain when others suffer for our mistakes. Your punishment shall be to watch them die. Captain. Proceed, Hanar.
ROJAN: Bring them to me. This is the essence of what they were. The flesh and brain and what you call the personality, distillled down into these compact shapes. And once crushed this person is dead. However, that one can be restored. Hanar?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4657.5. Work is proceeding on the Enterprise as my crew is forced to make the required changes in the ship for intergalactic travel. I can't forget the picture of Yeoman Thompson crushed to a handful of dust.

[Cell]
MCCOY: Spock, are you sure you're all right?
SPOCK: Yes, quite all right, Doctor.
MCCOY: You didn't look very well when you broke that mind touch.
SPOCK: I did not break it, Doctor. I was thrown away by something I've never experienced before.
KIRK: What was it?
SPOCK: A series of bizarre and exotic images bursting on my mind and consciousness. Colors, shapes, mathematical equations fused and blurred. I've been attempting to isolate them, but so far I've been able to recall clearly only one. Immense beings, a hundred limbs which resemble tentacles. Minds of such control and capacity that each limb is capable of performing a different function.
MCCOY: Do you mean that's what the Kelvans really are?
SPOCK: Undoubtedly.
MCCOY: Well, if they look that way normally, why did they adapt themselves to our bodies?
KIRK: Perhaps practicality. They chose the Enterprise as the best vessel for the trip. Immense beings with a hundred tentacles would have difficulty with the turbolift. We've got to stop them. We outnumber them. Their only hold on us is the paralysis field.
MCCOY: Well, that's enough. One wrong move, and they jam all our neural circuits.
KIRK: Jam. Spock, if you reverse the circuits on McCoy's neuro-analyzer, can you set up a counter field to jam the paralysis projector?
SPOCK: I'm dubious of the possibilities of success, Captain. The medical equipment is not designed to put out a great deal of power. The polarized elements would burn out quickly.
KIRK: Is there a chance at all?
SPOCK: A small one.
KIRK: We'll take it. You and Bones have to get to the ship.
MCCOY: How?
KIRK: Yes. Mister Spock, you're sick.
SPOCK: I assure you, Captain, I am in perfect health.
KIRK: No, you're not. Doctor McCoy has given you an thorough examination, and you're ill. In fact, if you don't get to the sickbay, you're going to die.
MCCOY: It's a good idea, Jim, but anyone looking at him can tell he's healthy.
KIRK: Vulcans have the ability to place themselves in a kind of trance, complete relaxation of every part of the mind and body.
SPOCK: We find it more restful to the body than your so-called vacation.
KIRK: Can you do it now and come out of it in the sickbay, say in half an hour?
SPOCK: It will take me a moment to prepare.
KIRK: Go ahead.
MCCOY: Jim, his heartbeat really is slow. His pulse is practically non-existent.
KIRK: Hanar? Hanar.
HANAR: What do you want, human?
KIRK: Mister Spock is ill. The doctor thinks he may be dying.
HANAR: This illness came on him rather suddenly. Is it not unusual?
KIRK: He's a Vulcan. They don't react like humans.
MCCOY: He may die. If I can get him up to sickbay, there's a chance he'll live.
HANAR: Stand away from the door. I will have you beamed aboard.
KIRK: Do what you can with him, Bones.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor, what happened?
MCCOY: Prepare two ccs of stokaline.
CHAPEL: Stokaline? But, doctor, that's
MCCOY: Don't argue, nurse. Just get it. This may be the turning point. Prepare another shot.
CHAPEL: But, Doctor
MCCOY: Please, nurse, just follow orders, will you?
MCCOY: There, that should do it. Just let him rest now. You see, it's a flare-up of Rigelian Kassaba Fever. He suffered from it about ten years ago, and it recurs every now and then. There's no danger if he gets medication in time. He'll be all right in a couple of hours.
TOMAR: Very well. I will inform Rojan. You will stay here.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: What do you want from me now?
ROJAN: We will beam aboard the vessel shortly. I wish you to understand your duties.
KIRK: My duty is to stop you in any way I can.
ROJAN: You will obey.
KIRK: Or you will kill more of my people?
ROJAN: Captain Kirk, I cannot believe that you do not understand the importance of my mission. We Kelvans have a code of honor. Harsh, demanding. It calls for much from us and much from those whom we conquer. You have been conquered. I respect your devotion to your duty, but I cannot permit it to interfere with mine.
KELINDA: These are lovely. Captain Kirk, what is it you call them?
KIRK: Flowers. I don't know the variety.
KELINDA: Our memory tapes tell us of such things on Kelvan. Crystals that form with such rapidity, they seem to grow. They look like this fragile thing somewhat. We call them Sahsheer.
KIRK: A rose by any other name.
KELINDA: Captain?
KIRK: A quote from a great human poet, Shakespeare. That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.

[Bridge]
ROJAN: Drea has computed and laid a course for Kelva, Captain.
CHEKOV: We've jumped to warp eight.
ROJAN: And we'll go faster yet. Increase speed to warp eleven.
KIRK: Increase speed to warp eleven, Mister Chekov.
DREA: On course and proceeding as planned. We will approach the barrier within an hour.
ROJAN: Very well.
KIRK: Rojan, I'm going to sickbay. My first officer was taken ill.
ROJAN: Yes, I was informed. You may go.

[Medical Laboratory]
KIRK: Anything?
SPOCK: I've located their power source, captain. It's installled in Engineering.
MCCOY: We're just going to jam it.
SCOTT: I've tied in all the lab computers. That will give it a bit more power to push with.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: This is it. Now all we have to do
SPOCK: Whatever it is we must do, it is impossible.
SCOTT: Why?
SPOCK: This material surrounding the projector is the same as I diskovered on the planet. Readings indicate it is impervious to any of our weapons. We cannot penetrate the casing to get to the machine.
SCOTT: That's it, then.
SPOCK: There is one other possibility, Mister Scott. The final decision, of course, must be the captain's, but I believe we must have it ready for him. The Enterprise is propelled by matter-anti-matter reactors. The barrier we must traverse is negative energy.
SCOTT: I see what you're getting at. I can't say I like it.
SPOCK: Nor I. But it must be made available to the captain.

[Corridor]
DREA (voiceover): Captain Kirk to the bridge, please.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Well?
SPOCK: Impossible, Captain. The power source is protected by a material we cannot breach even with our phasers. Mister Scott and I have prepared the means for the only logical alternative available to us.
KIRK: What alternative?
SPOCK: The barrier we must penetrate is composed of negative energy.
SCOTT: I have opened the control valves to the matter-anti-matter nacelles. On your signal, I will flood them with positive energy.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: When we engage the barrier, the ship will explode. The Kelvans will be stopped here.
SCOTT: And so will we.
KIRK: Are you mad? I can't just

[Bridge]
ROJAN: Take your places, gentlemen. We're approaching the barrier.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4658.9. With The Enterprise under control of the Kelvans, we are approaching the energy barrier at the edge of our galaxy. Spock and Scotty have devised a suicide plan to stop the Kelvans. They have rigged the ship to explode on my signal.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Reading, Spock.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate density negative, radiation negative, energy negative. All instruments off the dials, Captain. We are in contact with the barrier.
SCOTT: Outside hull temperatures rising, sir. It's over two thousand degrees now. Sir?
KIRK: Hold your position.
CHEKOV: We made it.
SPOCK: Instruments returning to normal, Captain.
UHURA: All decks report. Damage and casualties.
SCOTT: Several systems out, sir. Operating on emergency backup. None affect flight procedure.
SPOCK: Life support systems sustaining on emergency.
UHURA: I'll have a full report on ship's status for you in a moment, sir.
ROJAN: Your people are most efficient, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you. So are yours.
ROJAN: Hanar, start the neutralizing operation.
KIRK: What neutralizing operation?
ROJAN: You humans are troublesome for us. We needed you to get us through the barrier. But there aren't enough of us to efficiently guard all of you of the time. Further, the food synthesizers cannot manufacture enough food for the entire journey. We are therefore neutralizing all nonessential personnel.
KIRK: No!
ROJAN: The procedure is already underway. Now, as to bridge personnel. Drea? We have no need for communication.
ROJAN: And since Drea is capable of handling the ship from here on.

[Corridor]
ROJAN: Do you not agree that this is better thing for them than exploding the ship as your engineer had thought to do? We detected it, of course. Tomar has devised a mechanism to prevent any further tampering. Please accept your situation, Captain. It will make things much less painful.

[Rec room]
KIRK: Is this all?
SPOCK: I have reviewed ship's personnel, Captain. It appears we four are the only ones the Kelvans consider essential.
MCCOY: Scotty tells me you could've destroyed the ship in the barrier. Why didn't you?
KIRK: I couldn't.
MCCOY: But that was our only chance to stop them
KIRK: I didn't think it was.
MCCOY: Jim
KIRK: Bones, that's enough!
MCCOY: Jim, I saw them reduce four of my doctors and nurses into those little
KIRK: They've reduced the whole crew!
TOMAR: I do not understand why you take the trouble to consume this bulk material to sustain yourselves. We have ascertained that these contain all the nutritional elements.
MCCOY: Before you condemn it, why not try it?
TOMAR: I believe I will. Assist me.
KIRK: It's your idea, Doctor. Go ahead.
MCCOY: All right, I'll show you how to work the selector.
SCOTT: Sir, why don't we try again to knock out the paralysis projector? I know the casing looks impenetrable, but I may be able to do something.
KIRK: Even if we could, it's out of the question. We need that projector to bring our people back to human form.
SCOTT: Then how will we stop the Kelvans?
SPOCK: Captain?
TOMAR: It's quite good.
MCCOY: I'm delighted.
SPOCK: Most curious.
KIRK: What is?
SPOCK: The isolated glimpses of things I saw when I touched Kelinda's mind are beginning to coalesce in my consciousness. The Kelvans have superior intellectual capacity. To achieve it, they have apparently sacrificed anything which would tend to distract them. Perceptive senses such as taste, touch, smell, and, of course, emotions.
KIRK: But then Tomar shouldn't be enjoying the taste of his food.
SPOCK: Yes. Quite correct, Captain. But they have taken human form and are therefore having human reaction.
MCCOY: If he keeps reacting like that, he's going to need a diet.
KIRK: If they all respond to stimulation of the senses, then maybe we can distract them. They can't have been able to handle the senses yet. If we can confuse them enough, we can get those devices from their belts.
SPOCK: That seems reasonable.
KIRK: All right. It may be our only chance. Look for any way to stimulate the senses.
SCOTT: I can think of one way right off. Lad, you're going to need something to wash that down with. Have you ever tried any Saurian brandy?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: I don't know about that.
HANAR: Please articulate.
MCCOY: Well, that body of yours is a bit anemic. Comes from taking food in pills instead of solid sustenance.
HANAR: What are you doing?
MCCOY: I'm going to give you a shot. High-potency vitamin concentrate. You'll need three a day for a few days. And eat some solid food, will you?

[Scott's quarters]
TOMAR: No more.

[Kelinda's quarters]
KIRK: Am I disturbing you?
KELINDA: What is it you wish?
KIRK: I wish to apologize.
KELINDA: I don't understand, Captain.
KIRK: For hitting you. I'm sorry.
KELINDA: That is not necessary. You attempted to escape as we would have.
KIRK: Yes, well, I don't usually go around beating up beautiful women.
KELINDA: Why not?
KIRK: Well, there are better things for men and women to do.
KELINDA: Like what?
KIRK: Is this where I hit you?
KELINDA: No, the other side.
KIRK: Oh. I'm sorry. Is that better?
KELINDA: Better? Was it intended as a remedy?
KIRK: This is.
KELINDA: Is there some significance to this action?
KIRK: Well, among humans, it's meant to express warmth and love.
KELINDA: Oh. You are trying to seduce me. I have been studying you.
KIRK: Me?
KELINDA: All humans. This business of love. You have devoted much literature to it. Why do you build such a mystique around a simple biological function?
KIRK: We enjoy it.
KELINDA: The literature?
KIRK: Kelinda, I'm sorry I brought up the whole subject.
KELINDA: Do you really regard this touching of the lips as pleasurable?
KIRK: I did.
KELINDA: Curious. Let me try.
ROJAN: Is there some problem, Captain?
KIRK: Not when I came in.
ROJAN: What did he want here?
KELINDA: He came to apologize for hitting me. Apparently it involves some peculiar touching contact.
ROJAN: In what manner? Very odd creatures, these humans.

[Scott's quarters]
TOMAR: Do you have more?
SCOTT: Not of this.
TOMAR: Anything.

[Rec room]
SPOCK: Yes. Humans are very peculiar. I often find them unfathomable, but an interesting psychological study.
ROJAN: Well, I do not understand this business of pressing with the lips to apologize.
SPOCK: I believe you're referring to a kiss. But it is my understanding that such apologies are usually exchanged between people who have some affection for each other.
ROJAN: Kelinda has no affection for Captain Kirk.
SPOCK: Your game is off. Are you disturbed by the incident?
ROJAN: Why should I be disturbed?
SPOCK: You've known Kelinda for some time. She's a Kelvan as you are. Among humans, I've found the symptoms you're displaying usually indicate jealousy.
ROJAN: I have no reason for such a reaction. Kelinda's a female, nothing more.
SPOCK: Captain Kirk seems to find her quite attractive.
ROJAN: Well, of course she is!
SPOCK: You are not jealous?
ROJAN: No!
SPOCK: Nor upset?
ROJAN: Certainly not.
SPOCK: Checkmate.

[Scott's quarters]
SCOTT: I found this on Ganymood, er, Ganymede.
TOMAR: What is it?
SCOTT: Well, it's, er. It's green.

[Kelinda's quarters]
ROJAN: Kelinda, I've been thinking.
KELINDA: Yes?
ROJAN: I do not wish you to fraternize with any of the humans.
KELINDA: Why not?
ROJAN: Well, they, they offer such strange ideas. They're not meant for us. Not for Kelvans.
KELINDA: Have you given this order to the others?
ROJAN: No. And I wish you to particularly avoid Captain Kirk.
KELINDA: I will not. You have told me over and over again, humans are no threat to us. We are superior. I will do as I please.
ROJAN: You will do as I say, or I will neutralize your Captain Kirk and all the other humans as well.

[Sickbay]
HANAR: How many more of these?
MCCOY: Well, now, let's see. You've had three shots. I think you better stay on them for a few days, and then we'll see how you're responding.
HANAR: I see no reason for you to refer to yourself in the plural.

[Scott's quarters]
TOMAR: You have more?
SCOTT: All I have is a bottle of very, very, very old Scotch. Whisky!
TOMAR: I will try it.
SCOTT: I'll get it! I was saving you for
TOMAR: What?
SCOTT: Never mind. Gie us your glass.

[Rec room]
KIRK: The thing is, I can't tell if we're getting anywhere. And I haven't seen Scotty in hours.
MCCOY: We haven't seen Tomar either. But my man Hanar is getting more irritable by the minute. I'm giving him shots of formazine. That should have him climbing the walls.
SPOCK: Rojan has exhibited symptoms of jealousy.
KELINDA: I would like to speak with you, Captain.
SPOCK: Doctor, I'm due for another injection of stokaline.
MCCOY: Hmm?
SPOCK: Stokaline.
MCCOY: Oh. You will pardon us.
KIRK: You had something to say?
KELINDA: Yes. This cultural mystique surrounding the biological function.
KIRK: Yes?
KELINDA: You realize humans are overly preoccupied with the subject.
KIRK: Yes. We do think a great deal about it.
KELINDA: I've done some supplemental reading on it, and, er
KIRK: You have a question?
KELINDA: Yes. I was wondering, would you please apologize to me again?

[Bridge]
HANAR: Rojan, I want to talk to you.
ROJAN: Very well.
HANAR: First, I do not like the way responsibility and duty has been portioned out to us.
ROJAN: It's the way your duties have always been assigned.
HANAR: That is my second quarrel with you.
ROJAN: Hanar!
HANAR: And further, I do not care much for the way you run this ship.
ROJAN: Hanar, confine yourself to your quarters!

[Rec room]
KELINDA: Rojan has forbidden me to see you.
KIRK: Yes, that's too bad. Why do you defy him?
KELINDA: It's not a question of defiance. We were told to find out everything we could about you.
KIRK: Huh. And how's the research going?
KELINDA: I need some more experiments.

[Bridge]
ROJAN: Mister Spock, you were not ordered to the bridge. What is your purpose here?
SPOCK: Automatic sensors and various other recording devices require monitoring and periodic adjustments.
ROJAN: Very well. Proceed. Have you seen Captain Kirk?
SPOCK: If you wish, I shall call him to the bridge.
ROJAN: No. I was wondering where he was.
SPOCK: I left him in the recreation room.
ROJAN: He was alone then.
SPOCK: No, Kelinda was with him. She seemed anxious to speak to him.
ROJAN: I told her to stay away from him.
SPOCK: It would appear, sir, that you have little control over her. Or perhaps Captain Kirk has more.

[Scott's quarters]
TOMAR: Very interesting. But I feel rather strange.
SCOTT: We did it, you and me. Put him right under the table. I'll take this to the captain.

[Rec room]
ROJAN: Kelinda, I told you to avoid this human.
KELINDA: I did not wish to.
ROJAN: I am your commander.
KIRK: That's not enough, Rojan.
ROJAN: You did this to her, corrupted her, turned her away from me!
KIRK: If you can't keep her, that's not my problem.
ROJAN: You will release her!
KIRK: Why don't you use your paralyzer? You thought I was taking your woman away from you. You're jealous! You tried to kill me with your bare hands. Would a Kelvan do that? Would he have to? You're reacting with the emotions of a human. You are a human.
ROJAN: No, I cannot be!
KIRK: I'm stimulating him. You have no choice. To use this ship, you have to use our form and now you're stuck with it, you and your descendants, for the next three hundred years.
ROJAN: You fool. These bodies are tools. We remain Kelvans!
KIRK: Look what's happened in the short time you've been exposed to us. What do you think will happen in three centuries? When this ship gets to Kelva, the people on it will be human. They'll be aliens. Enemies!
ROJAN: We have a duty, our mission. We've got to accomplish any way we can.
KIRK: Your mission is to find new worlds for your people to live in. You can still do that. We can bring this problem to the Federation. There are many planets in this galaxy that can be inhabited.
ROJAN: You would really do that? You would extend welcome to invaders?
KIRK: No. But we would welcome friends.
SPOCK: Rojan, you are only a link in a chain, following an order given three hundred years ago. This is an opportunity for you to establish a destiny of your own.
ROJAN: Perhaps. Perhaps it could be done.
SPOCK: A robot ship could be sent to Kelva with the Federation proposal.
ROJAN: But if we retain this form, where could we find a place?
MCCOY: Seems to me that little planet you were on is kind of nice.
ROJAN: And you. You would wish to remain with him?
KELINDA: He's most interesting, but I wish to go with you. I believe I owe you an apology. It's most pleasurable.
ROJAN: Yes. Very curious.
KIRK: You see, Rojan, being human does have certain advantages. Being able to appreciate the beauty of a flower or a woman.
ROJAN: Bridge, this is Rojan.
DREA (voiceover): Yes, Commander.
ROJAN: I'm returning command of the ship to Captain Kirk. You will follow his orders.
DREA (voiceover): Sir?
KIRK: Turn the ship around. We're going home.

[Bridge]
SULU: The reading's growing stronger, Captain. Coming from a star system directly ahead.
UHURA: It's not a signal, sir. It does not seem to even exist, and yet it's affecting all my channels.
KIRK: Well?
SPOCK: Someone or something is attempting to attract our attention.
KIRK: Someone or something has succeeded. Our distress signal relays have been activated. We've been given a direction to follow, but how? What's causing it?
SPOCK: I do not know. Not even a Vulcan can know the unknown, Captain. We are hundreds of light years past where any Earth ship has ever explored.
SULU: Planet dead ahead, Captain. Becoming visual.
SPOCK: Class M planet, Captain.
KIRK: Close to Earth conditions.
SPOCK: With two very important exceptions. It's much older than Earth, and about a half million years ago, its atmosphere was totally ripped away by some sort of cataclysm. The planet has evidently been dead since then. Sensors detect no life of any kind.
SARGON (voiceover): All of your questions will be answered in time, Captain Kirk. KIRK; Are your hailing frequencies open?
UHURA: No, sir.
SARGON (voiceover): I am Sargon. It is the energy of my thoughts which has touched your instruments and directed you here. Now with this closer distance I can speak to you at last.
KIRK: Who are you, Sargon?
SARGON (voiceover): Please assume a standard orbit about our planet, Captain.
KIRK: Is that a request or demand?
SARGON (voiceover): The choice is yours. I read what is in your mind. Words are unnecessary.
KIRK: The planet is dead. There's no possibility of life there as we understand life.
SARGON (voiceover): And I am as dead as my planet. Does that frighten you, James Kirk? For if it does, if you let what is left of me perish, then all of you, my children, all of mankind must perish, too. Captain's Log. Stardate 4768.3. The Enterprise is in orbit above a planet whose surface, our sensors tell us, is devoid of all life, a world destroyed and dead for at least a half million years. Yet from it comes a voice, the energy of pure thought, telling us something has survived here for those thousands of centuries.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Since exploration and contact with alien intelligences is our primary mission, I've decided to risk the potential dangers and resume contact. Log entry out. How long before Starfleet receives that?
UHURA: Over three weeks at this distance, sir.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Got something?
SPOCK: Sensors registering some form of energy deep inside the planet.
SARGON (voiceover): Your probes have touched me, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Reading energy only, Captain. No life forms.
SARGON (voiceover): I have locked your transporter device on my co-ordinates. Please come to us. Rescue us from oblivion.
SPOCK: Coming from deep under the planet's surface, Captain. Under at least one hundred miles of solid rock.
SARGON (voiceover): I will make it possible for your transporter to beam you that deep beneath the surface. Have no fear.
SPOCK: Reading a chamber now. Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere, suitable for human life support.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy report to the transporter room in ten minutes with standard landing party equipment.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, I do wish to inspect whatever this is that lived that long ago.
KIRK: And I would like to have my science officer with me on something as unusual as this, but it is full of unknowns and we can't risk both of us being off the ship.
SULU: All power gone, sir.
KIRK: On the other hand, perhaps this Sargon would like you to come with us.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
SULU: All normal. No damage at all.
KIRK: I see. Will you transport down with us, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Evidently, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, you have the conn.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: Jim, why no briefing on this? I'd at least like to know what we're getting into.
KIRK: Easy, Bones. As long as you know there's something down there, you know as much as we do. The rest is only guesses.
SCOTT: I don't like it, sir. The transporter co-ordinates preset by an alien of some sort. You could materialize inside solid rock.
MCCOY: Inside solid rock?
SPOCK: Unlikely. These co-ordinates correspond with the location of the subterranean chamber.
KIRK: I have a feeling that they or it could destroy us just standing here if they or it wanted to.
MULHALL: They or it?
KIRK: Who are you?
MULHALL: Doctor Ann Mulhall, Astro-biology. Well, I was ordered to report here for landing party duty.
KIRK: By whom?
MULHALL: Strange, I'm not sure. Well, I'm not a liar, Captain. I did receive an order to report here for duty.
SPOCK: I'm sure she did, Captain, Just as you received an order to bring me along.
KIRK: Oh, yes.
MCCOY: Let's get back to this solid rock business. Just how much rock are we going to go through?
SPOCK: Approximately one hundred twelve point three seven miles, Doctor.
MCCOY: Miles? Are you joking?
KIRK: No, we're not. Let's go.
SARGON (voiceover): Please stand ready. I will operate your controls.
KIRK: Doctor, if you prefer to stay behind?
MCCOY: No. No, if I'd be useful, as long as you're going down, I might as well take a medical look at whatever this is.

[Chamber]
SPOCK: Captain, the security guards.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Can you read me, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, Scotty, and I shouldn't be able to this deep inside the planet, but perhaps this has been arranged for us, too. Is the security guard up there?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: They're fine. They Just didn't dematerialize.

[Chamber]
SCOTT (voiceover): I don't like it, sir.
KIRK: No problem yet. Maintain alert. Kirk out.
MULHALL: Atmosphere report, Captain. A fraction richer in oxygen than usual for us, but otherwise normal.
SPOCK: This vault was constructed about a half a million years ago. About the same time the planet surface was destroyed, if our sensor readings are accurate.
KIRK: Composition of walls?
SPOCK: They're an alloy or substance completely unknown to me. Much stronger and harder than anything I've measured before.
MULHALL: All readings are off the scale, Captain.
MCCOY: The air seems fresh. It must be re-circulated somehow.
KIRK: Is that for us, or does it need fresh air?
SARGON: Welcome. I am Sargon.
SPOCK: Sargon, would it harm you if I
SARGON: You may use your tricorder, Mister Spock. Your readings will show energy but no substance. Sealed in this receptacle is the essence of my mind.
SPOCK: Pure energy. Matter without form.
KIRK: Impossible.
MCCOY: But you once had a body of some type?
SARGON: A body much as yours, my children, although our minds were infinitely greater.
KIRK: That's twice you've referred to us as my children.
SARGON: Because it is possible you are our descendants, Captain Kirk. Six thousand centuries ago, our vessels were colonizing this galaxy, just as your own starships have now begun to explore that vastness. As you now leave your own seed on distant planets, so we left our seed behind us. Perhaps your own legends of an Adam and an Eve were two of our travelers.
MULHALL: Our beliefs and our studies indicate that life on our planet, Earth, evolved independently.
SPOCK: That would tend, however, to explain certain elements of Vulcan prehistory.
SARGON: In either case, I do not know. It was so long ago, and the records of our travels were lost in the cataclysm which we loosened upon ourselves.
KIRK: A war?
SARGON: A struggle for such goals and the unleashing of such power that you could not comprehend.
KIRK: Then perhaps your intelligence wasn't so great, Sargon. We faced a similar crisis in our early nuclear age. We found the wisdom not to destroy ourselves.
SARGON: And we survived our primitive nuclear era, my son. But there comes to all races an ultimate crisis which you have yet to face.
KIRK: I don't understand.
SARGON: One day our minds became so powerful, we dared think of ourselves as gods.
KIRK: You said you wanted our help. What is it you wish?
SPOCK: Just a moment, Doctor.
KIRK: I am Sargon.
MCCOY: Where's our captain? Where's Jim Kirk?
KIRK: He is unharmed. I have taken his body to demonstrate
MCCOY: I won't go along with this. Back to where you were, Sargon, or whatever you are.
SPOCK: And if he refuses, Doctor, what do you propose to do with your phaser? That is still Jim's body.
KIRK: Lungs filled with air again. To see again. Heart pumping, arteries surging with blood again. A half a million years. To be again. Your captain has an excellent body, Doctor McCoy. I compliment you both on the condition in which you maintained it.
SPOCK: What are your plans for it? Can you exchange places again when you wish?
KIRK: Have no fear. Your captain is quite unharmed, although his mind generates insufficient energy for him to speak from there as I do.
SPOCK: Doctor?
MULHALL: Yes, I have the same readings.
MCCOY: Are you aware of what's happening to his body? Heart action doubled, temperature a hundred and four degrees?
MULHALL: He'll die if you don't leave his body. Soon!
SPOCK: What is it you want of us?
KIRK: In the next room, there are other receptacles. The other two of us that survived. You, Doctor Ann Mulhall, and you, Mister Spock, we require your bodies also. We must have Captain Kirk and you so that we may live again.

[Small chamber]
KIRK: Even for us, a half million years is almost too long to wait. Two others still survive. Henoch and Thalassa. Thalassa, my Thalassa. I am pleased you survived with me. Forgive me. It has been so very long.
SPOCK: When the struggle came which devastated your planet
KIRK: Only the best minds were chosen to survive. Thalassa, my wife, as you may have guessed. Henoch, from the other side. Realizing our mistake, we attempted to perpetuate both sides. We built this chamber here in order to preserve our essence in this fashion.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: We knew the seed that we had planted on other planets would take root, that one day you would build vessels as we did, and one day you would come here.
SPOCK: These others, they were stored differently than you, but it was your task to remain in the receptacle out there
KIRK: and search the heavens with my mind, probing, waiting, probing. And then one day my mind touched your vessel and brought you here.
MULHALL: So you could steal our bodies from us?
KIRK: To steal? To take them from you? No, no, my children, you misunderstand. We mean only that you should lend us your bodies for a short time.
MCCOY: And destroy them, just as you're burning that one up now. Heartbeat's two hundred and sixty two, Spock. Entire metabolic rate correspondingly high.
KIRK: I will return your captain to you before the body limit has been reached.
SPOCK: Our bodies, Sargon, for what purpose?
KIRK: To build. To build humanoid robots. We must borrow your bodies long enough to have the use of your hands, your fingers.
SPOCK: Then you intend to construct mechanical bodies, move your minds into them, and then return our bodies to us.
MULHALL: We have engineers, technicians. Why can't they build your robots for you?
KIRK: No. Our methods, our skills are far beyond your abilities. It is time.

[Chamber]
MCCOY: Is it you, Jim? Good, his metabolic rate is back to normal.
SPOCK: Captain, do you know what happened? Do you remember any part of it?
KIRK: Yes. Sargon borrowed my body. I was floating in time and space.
MCCOY: He doesn't appear to be harmed. Physically, anyway.
KIRK: Spock, I remember. When Sargon and I exchanged, as we passed each other, for an instant we were one. I know him now. I know what he is and what he wants, and I don't fear him.
MCCOY: That's the most ridiculous statement I've ever heard. An alien practically hijacks your body and then corks you into a bottle and
MULHALL: I'm afraid that I must agree with Doctor McCoy. You could be suffering from a form of false euphoria.
KIRK: Sargon.
SARGON (voiceover): I understand, my son. Go to your vessel. All who are involved must agree to this. After all these centuries, we can wait a few more hours.
MCCOY: And what if we should decide against you?
SARGON (voiceover): Then you may go as freely as you came.

[Briefing room]
SCOTT: You're going to what? Are they all right in the head, Doctor?
MCCOY: No comment.
KIRK: A simple transference. Their minds and ours.
MCCOY: Quite simple. Happens every day.
KIRK: Scotty, I need your approval, too. Since you'll work with them, furnishing them all they need to make the android robots. You won't be working with them, you'll be working with us, our bodies. They'll be inside us, and we'll be
MCCOY: It all seems rather indecent to me.
MULHALL: I'm not so certain of that, Doctor. It is scientifically fascinating.
SPOCK: Once inside their mechanical bodies, engineer, they can leave this planet, travel back with us. With their knowledge, mankind could leap ahead ten thousand years.
KIRK: Bones, they'll show us medical advances, miracles you never dreamed possible. Scotty, engineering advances. Vessels this size with engines the size of walnuts.
SCOTT: Ach! You're joking.
SPOCK: No, he's not.
MCCOY: They're giants, and we're insects beside them. They could destroy us without meaning to. And all he wants is the body of our captain and our second in command, too. Coincidence?
KIRK: They selected us as the most compatible bodies.
MCCOY: What's your attitude on that, Doctor?
MULHALL: Well, if we all agree, I'm willing to host Thalassa's mind. I'm a scientist. The opportunity is an extraordinary one for experimentation, observation.
SCOTT: A starship engine the size of a walnut? That's impossible. But I don't suppose there'd be any harm in looking over diagrams on it.
KIRK: Bones? You could stop all this by saying no. That's why I called you all here together. We'll all be deeply involved. It must be unanimous.
MCCOY: Then I'll still want one question answered to my satisfaction. Why? Not a list of possible miracles, but a simple basic understandable why that overrides all danger. And let's not kid ourselves that there is no potential danger in this.
KIRK: They used to say if man could fly, he'd have wings. But he did fly. He diskovered he had to. Do you wish that the first Apollo mission hadn't reached the moon, or that we hadn't gone on to Mars and then to the nearest star? That's like saying you wish that you still operated with scalpels and sewed your patients up with catgut like your great-great-great-great-grandfather used to. I'm in command. I could order this. But I'm not because, Doctor McCoy is right in pointing out the enormous danger potential in any contact with life and intelligence as fantastically advanced as this. But I must point out that the possibilities, the potential for knowledge and advancement is equally great. Risk. Risk is our business. That's what the starship is all about. That's why we're aboard her. You may dissent without prejudice. Do I hear a negative vote? Engineer, stand by to beam aboard three receptacles.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: The extreme power of the alien mind will drive the heart action dangerously high, and The body functions will race many times their normal metabolism, so we're going to have to monitor this very carefully.
CHAPEL: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Well, I guess we're as ready as we'll ever be, Jim.
KIRK: Ready, Sargon.
KIRK: The transference is complete.
CHAPEL: Metabolic rate is double and rising, Doctor.
SPOCK: Hello. Oh, you are a lovely female. A pleasant sight to wake up to after half a million years.
CHAPEL: Thank you.
SPOCK: You're welcome.
MULHALL: I'd forgotten what it felt like even to breathe again. Sargon?
KIRK: Here. In this body.
MULHALL: I am not displeased, my husband. Your body is not unlike that which was your own.
KIRK: And I too am pleased, beloved.
MULHALL: After so long. So very long.
KIRK: Kiss.
SPOCK: This is an excellent body, Doctor. I seem to have received the best of the three. Strength, hearing, eyesight, all far above your human norms. I'm surprised the Vulcans never conquered your race.
MCCOY: Vulcans worship peace above all, Henoch.
SPOCK: Yes, of course, Just as we do, Doctor.
MCCOY: Nurse!
CHAPEL: Doctor?
MCCOY: Henoch, you'd better get back to bed too.
SPOCK: It will be unnecessary, Doctor. This Vulcan body is accustomed to the higher metabolism.
MCCOY: Sargon, it won't work. You've got to get out before you kill them.
KIRK: We will vacate at once until you can administer a metabolic reduction injection.
MCCOY: A what?
SPOCK: I'll prepare the formula, Sargon.
KIRK: Henoch, your condition?
SPOCK: I can continue in this body for several hours.
KIRK: Fortunate. We will vacate at once.
SPOCK: This woman will assist me. You will take me to your pharmacology laboratory.
KIRK: Bones, what?
MCCOY: It was close, Jim. You both barely got back alive. Unless the formula works, we can't risk it again.

[Pharmacy]
SPOCK: Now. this formula will reduce the heart action and the bodily functions to normal. While the bodies are occupied, you will administer one injection of ten cc's each hour.
CHAPEL: I understand.
SPOCK: This hypo you will code mark for Thalassa. And this one you will code mark for me.
CHAPEL: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: This one you will administer to Captain Kirk while Sargon is in his body.
CHAPEL: This hypo does not contain the same formula.
SPOCK: No, that's correct. But since I will arrange for you to administer each of the injections, no one else will notice.
CHAPEL: Without the same formula, Captain Kirk will die.
SPOCK: What were you saying?
CHAPEL: I. I was. I wanted to say something. I've forgotten what it was.
SPOCK: Yes. Well, you were about to say that you watched me prepare the formula and fill each of the hypos.
CHAPEL: Yes, that, that was it. I will inform Doctor McCoy that each is properly filled for each patient.
SPOCK: Very good. You see, Sargon would not permit me to keep this body. It is therefore necessary for you to kill your captain so that Sargon will die with him. Enterprise Medical Log. Stardate 4769.1. Three alien minds now inhabit the bodies of Captain Kirk, Science Officer Spock, and Doctor Ann Mulhall.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: As planned, the construction of android robots is underway. All is proceeding as expected and as promised. I can find no reason for concern, but yet I am filled with foreboding.

[Laboratory]
MULHALL: Sargon, I remember a day long ago. We sat beside a silver lake. The air was scented with the flowers of our planet.
KIRK: I remember. You held my hand like this.
KIRK: I think it best not to remember so well.
SPOCK: In two days, you'll have your own hands, Thalassa. Mechanically efficient and quite human-looking. Android robot hands, of course. Hands without feeling. Enjoy the taste of life while you can.
KIRK: Our minds will have survived. And as androids, we can move among the people who do live, teaching them, helping them not to make the errors we did.
MULHALL: What is it, Sargon?
KIRK: Nothing. Our next injection will renovate me. Do not be concerned.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Nurse, how are the last metabolic readings on our patients?
CHAPEL: You'll find them excellent, Doctor. Well within normal.
MCCOY: Is something wrong, Miss Chapel?
CHAPEL: Er, yes. I, er, I had something to say. I can't seem to remember.
MCCOY: Regarding our patients?
CHAPEL: Yes. That must be it. I am so pleased the way they are responding, Doctor. The formula's working perfectly.
MCCOY: You look tired, Miss Chapel. Perhaps you'd care for me to administer the last few injections.
CHAPEL: Tired? Well, not at all, Doctor. Thank you for asking.

[Laboratory]
MULHALL: Thank you. Have you prepared the negaton hydracoils for the drawing Sargon supplied?
SCOTT: For all the good it'll do you. It's a fancy name, but how will something that looks like a drop of jelly make this thing work? You'll need microgears and a pulley that does what a muscle does.
MULHALL: That would be highly inefficient.
SCOTT: I tell you, lady, this thing won't work.
SPOCK: It will have twice the strength and agility of your body, engineer, and will last a thousand years. That is, assuming you'll stop wasting your time and allow us to complete it.
SPOCK: A thousand-year prison, Thalassa. And when it wears out we'll build another one, and we'll lock ourselves into it for another thousand years. And another, and another. Sargon has closed his mind to a better way. With these bodies.
MULHALL: They're not ours, Henoch.
SPOCK: When you awoke in this body, Thalassa, you said how good it was to breathe again, to have eyes and to see again. To feel. To live and feel again, Thalassa. Just think how much we can do for mankind. Are these bodies too much to ask for in return? Would you prefer this?
MULHALL: No. I'm beginning to hate it.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay. McCoy.
KIRK: Sargon here, McCoy. I'm in your deck six briefing room.
MCCOY (voiceover): You sound terrible. Wait there for me.
MULHALL: Sargon, what is it?
KIRK: Nothing of importance. Fatigue perhaps.
MULHALL: Henoch's formula.
KIRK: Yes. I wanted to be certain there was no error. Formula is correct. Don't be concerned. It is an excellent body. There. You see? I feel better already.
MULHALL: In time, a host body will become accustomed to us, husband. Injections will no longer be necessary.
KIRK: That will take months, perhaps years. We haven't that choice, Thalassa.
MULHALL: Husband. Feel the touch of my hand, husband.
KIRK: No, beloved. If we torment ourselves
MULHALL: Beloved. What will that word mean to a machine?
KIRK: Our thoughts will intertwine.
MULHALL: Will they, husband? Will they intertwine like this? Can two minds press close like this? Can robot lips do this? Sargon, what is it?
MCCOY: Hypo.
MULHALL: Doctor, help him!
MCCOY: He's dead. Medical Log. Stardate 4770.3. Do I list one death or two? When Kirk's body died, Sargon was too far distant from his receptacle to transfer back. Sargon is dead. But is Captain Kirk dead? His body is, but his consciousness is still in the receptacle into which it was transferred earlier.

[Sickbay]
NURSE: All his vital organs are now working, Doctor.
MCCOY: Yes, we can keep them going for a few weeks, or a month. For all the good it'll do.

[Laboratory]
MULHALL: Why pretend to work on that thing, Henoch? You know you never intended to leave Spock's body.
SPOCK: This is your new home, Thalassa. Once occupied, I'll add female features and some texturing. You no doubt want the mechanism to at least appear to be a woman. It is ready, Thalassa.
MULHALL: No!
SPOCK: You have no excuse to keep the real body any longer. Sargon would've required that you enter the mechanism immediately.
MULHALL: I cannot live in that thing.

[Sickbay]
MULHALL: Doctor.
MCCOY: Yes?
MULHALL: Would you like to save your Captain Kirk?
MCCOY: But you said that was impossible.
MULHALL: We have many powers Sargon did not permit us to use. He thought them too tempting to us. This body pleases me. I intend to keep it.
MCCOY: I see. And Henoch intends to keep Spock's body, of course.
MULHALL: Henoch's plans are his own affair. I wish only to exist in peace as a living woman.
MCCOY: If you're asking my approval
MULHALL: I require only your silence. Only you and I will know that Doctor Mulhall has not returned to her body. Isn't that worth your captain's life? Doctor, we can take what we wish. Neither you, this ship, nor worlds have the power to stop us.
MCCOY: Neither Jim nor I can trade a body we don't own. It happens to belong to a young woman.
MULHALL: Who you hardly know. Almost a stranger to you.
MCCOY: I will not peddle flesh. I'm a physician.
MULHALL: A physician? In contrast to what we are, you are a prancing, savage medicine man. You dare defy one you should be on your knees worshiping? I could destroy you with a single thought.
MULHALL: Stop! Sargon was right. The temptations within a living body are too great. Forgive me.
SARGON (voiceover): I am pleased, my beloved. It is good you have found the truth yourself.
MULHALL: Sargon? Where are you? I thought you destroyed by Henoch.
SARGON: I have power even Henoch does not suspect, beloved.
MULHALL: Yes. Yes, I see. I understand. Just as we would have placed our consciousness within robots, Sargon has placed his into your vessel.
CHAPEL: Doctor.
MULHALL: Doctor, leave us. Sargon has a plan. We have much work to do.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: This is Sickbay. Get me
MCCOY: Nurse Chapel, what in the devil?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Jim? Are you all right?
KIRK: Yes, I'm fine, Bones.
MCCOY: Thalassa?
MULHALL: She is now with Sargon, Doctor. I'm Ann Mulhall, back in my own body.
MCCOY: Jim, the receptacles. Spock's consciousness was in one of them.
KIRK: It was necessary.
MCCOY: What are you talking about? There is no Spock to return to his body. You've killed a loyal officer, your best friend.
KIRK: Bones, prepare a hypo. The fastest, deadliest poison to Vulcans. Spock's consciousness is gone. We must kill his body, the thing in it.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Must I make an example of you, too, Helm?
SPOCK: Pain, Captain. And you, my dear?
SPOCK: Fortunately, Doctor, I know every thought of every mind around me. See? Take the hypo from him. And inject him with it.
SPOCK: Fools. I'll simply transfer to another place, another body.
SPOCK: Sargon! No, Sargon, please. Let me. Let me transfer.
KIRK: Spock. My friend Spock. If there'd only been another way.
SARGON (voiceover): I could not allow your sacrifice of one so close to you.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: You're alive.
MCCOY: There was enough poison in that hypo to kill ten Vulcans.
SARGON (voiceover): No, Doctor. I allowed you to believe that to be true so that Henoch would read your thoughts and believe it also.
MCCOY: Sargon.
SPOCK: It seems, Doctor, the injection was only enough to cause unconsciousness.
SARGON (voiceover): But Henoch believed and fled the body. He is destroyed.
KIRK: But your vessel was destroyed, too. Where was your consciousness kept?
SPOCK: The place Henoch would least suspect, Captain.
CHAPEL: That is why I was summoned into Sickbay, Doctor. Mister Spock's consciousness was placed in me. We shared consciousness together.
SARGON (voiceover): We now know we cannot permit ourselves to exist in your world, my children. Thalassa and I must now also depart into oblivion.
KIRK: Is there any way we can help you, Sargon?
SARGON: Yes, my son. You can allow Thalassa and me to share your bodies again. A last moment together.
MULHALL: Oblivion together does not frighten me, beloved. Promise we'll be together.
KIRK: I promise, beloved.
MULHALL: Together forever.
KIRK: Forever beloved. Forever.
KIRK: Well, I'm sure that Sargon appreciated your co-operation, Doctor Mulhall.
MULHALL: Yes. I was happy to co-operate, Captain.
CHAPEL: It was beautiful.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Passing outer planet, Zeon.
KIRK: We want the inner one, Ekos. Plot a standard orbit, Mister Chekov, and take us in.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, raise John Gill on Starfleet communications.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY: Starfleet's been trying for six months. If he's alive, isn't it unlikely that he'd receive us now?
KIRK: I don't know, Bones. We're here to find out what's happened because I don't know.
SPOCK: I never met John Gill, but I studied Earth history from the text he prepared.
KIRK: I knew him very well. He was my instructor at the Academy.
SPOCK: What impressed me most was his treatment of Earth history as causes and motivations rather than dates and events.
UHURA: Captain, no response on any Starfleet channel.
CHEKOV: Spacecraft approaching from inner planet.
KIRK: From Ekos?
SPOCK: Yes, but it must be a Zeon ship. Zeons do have a crude interplanetary capability. Reaction powered. A small rocket. It is on an intercept course. That would mean it has sophisticated detection devices which neither Zeon nor Ekos should have.
KIRK: Have you raised anyone, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Nothing, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, it's an unmanned probe which seems to be carrying a warhead.
KIRK: Stand by phasers.
CHEKOV: Phasers ready.
KIRK: Range, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Two thousand kilometers, closing fast.
KIRK: Fire.
SPOCK: Fascinating. A thermonuclear warhead.
MCCOY: That's generations ahead of where these people should be technically. How'd they manage that?
KIRK: Maybe they had help. Maximum orbit. Take us out of range of their detection range.
SPOCK: Most interesting. We were attacked by a thermonuclear missile from a planet which should have no such weapon.
CHEKOV: Orbit computed and locked in, sir.
KIRK: Execute.
UHURA: Captain, no response from John Gill on any channel.
MCCOY: He must be dead. And what's going on down there on Ekos?
SPOCK: According to our records, the Ekosians are a primitive, warlike people in a state of anarchy. The other planet, Zeon, has a relatively high technology, and its people are peaceful.
KIRK: We've run into a far more serious problem than the disappearance of John Gill. Spock, you and I will beam down. Bones, one precaution. Prepare a subcutaneous transponder in the event we can't use our communicators.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Insert the transponders. Make one low pass to communication range in three hours. If we fail to make contact at the appointed time, take our co-ordinates from the transponder and beam us aboard no matter what our condition may be.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Whatever your condition.
KIRK: You ready?
SPOCK: Ready, Captain.
KIRK: Energize.

[Street]
SPOCK: The Ekosians are humanoid, so there is apt to be a similarity in architecture. Interesting.
ISAK: Hide! They're right behind me. Hide! Hide!
YELLOW: Zeon pig. On your feet, pig.
SPOCK: Captain, the non-interference Directive.
YELLOW: Hold. Your hands above your head, Zeon. Higher. Keep your hands up so you don't touch anything Ekosian. You swine have defiled us for the last time. But that's now ended. Move!
KIRK: Unbelievable. Do you recognize those uniforms?
SPOCK: Mid-twentieth century Earth. The nation state called Nazi Germany.
MAN (screen): Attention. Attention. Attention. An announcement from Fuhrer Headquarters. Today, the Fuhrer has ordered our glorious capital to be made Zeon-free. Starting at dawn, our heroic troops have begun flushing out the Zeon monsters who've been poisoning our planet.
KIRK: How could this have happened? The chances of another planet developing a culture like Nazi Germany, using the forms, the symbols, the uniforms of twentieth century Earth are so fantastically slim.
SPOCK: Virtually impossible, Captain, yet the evidence is quite clear.
MAN (voiceover): The Fuhrer's headquarters reports repulsing an attack by Zeon spacecraft. Our missiles utterly destroyed the enemy.
KIRK: You look quite well for a man who's been utterly destroyed, Mister Spock.
CROWD (screen): Sieg heil! Sieg heil!
MAN (voiceover): At this patriotic demonstration, Deputy Fuhrer Melakon presented the Iron Cross, second class, to Daras, hero of the Fatherland. Everywhere, preparations go forward toward the Final Decision, death to Zeon. Long live the Fatherland. Long live the Fuhrer.
KIRK: That's John Gill. The Fuhrer?
SPOCK: Fascinating.
SOLDIER: You, Zeons! What kind of monsters are the Zeons sending against us?
KIRK: You're right. He's not one of us.
SOLDIER: What do you mean?
KIRK: Look at him.
KIRK: Spock, take his uniform.
SPOCK: You propose we pass ourselves off as Nazis, Captain?
KIRK: If John Gill is the Fuhrer it would seem the logical approach.
SPOCK: That's very well taken, Captain.

[Another street]
KIRK: That helmet covers a multitude of sins.
OFFICER: Lieutenant, what have we here? A Zeon?
SPOCK: Yes. Obviously he's not one of us. I captured him. Is that not correct procedure with enemies of the Fatherland?
OFFICER: With all Zeon pigs, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: Take charge of him.
OFFICER: With pleasure. Today we have a surprise planned for you, Zeon.
SPOCK: Your uniform, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, it's a shame yours isn't as attractive as mine. Gestapo, I believe.
SPOCK: Quite correct. You should make a very convincing Nazi.

[Outside the Chancellery]
MAJOR: Lieutenant! Have you forgotten how to salute? Your papers.
KIRK: Your orders, Lieutenant. He wants to see your orders in the jacket. The Lieutenant's a little dazed. He captured several Zeons single-handed. One of the pigs struck him before he dropped. I promise you that pig will never get up again.
MAJOR: Good work, Lieutenant.
KIRK: Hail the Fuhrer.
MAJOR: Hail to the Fuhrer.
KIRK: This is a day to remember, Major.
MAJOR: Lieutenant? Better see a doctor. You don't look well. Your color.
SPOCK: Yes. I shall tend to it, Major.
MAJOR: Lieutenant! Your helmet. Remove it.
KIRK: We have urgent business with the Fuhrer.
MAJOR: Lieutenant, remove your helmet.

[Interrogation room]
MAJOR: Enough. do you wish to speak now? Tell me your orders! You were sent to kill our Fuhrer. Confess! Do you want some more persuasion?
KIRK: You're making this a rather one-sided conversation, Major.
MAJOR: Do not joke with me, Zeon pig. Who is this alien? Things might go easier if you tell me about him.
KIRK: Let me speak to your Fuhrer. I'll tell him everything he wants to know.
MAJOR: You'll be glad to talk to me before I'm through.
ENEG: Major.
MAJOR: Ah, Chairman Eneg. Your Excellency, I am honored. I've been interrogating these spies, captured in
ENEG: I've had a full report. You are not from Zeon.
SPOCK: Obviously.
ENEG: Where do you come from?
KIRK: I'll explain when I see the Fuhrer.
ENEG: What is your business with the Fuhrer?
KIRK: I'll diskuss that only with him.
MAJOR: Pig! You're speaking to the Chairman of the Party.
ENEG: That's enough, Major. What were the weapons found on you? What design? Our famous SS laboratories have been unable to diskover how the weapons work.
MAJOR: Excellency, give me a few minutes with them. I promise you, I'll have
ENEG: You've had a few minutes without result. The trouble with you SS is that you don't realize that punishment becomes ineffective after a certain point. Men become insensitive.
MAJOR: Yes, Excellency.
ENEG: Lock them up. Let their pain argue with them. Then I will question them.
MAJOR: Excellency, the standing order is to interrogate and execute. The interrogation is finished, therefore
ENEG: Finished? What have you learned? Hold them for an hour.
MAJOR: Excellency, the order
ENEG: That is my order, Major. I suggest you do not disobey it.
MAJOR: Yes, Excellency. All right, pigs. I shall keep my eye on the clock. When the hour is up, you will die most unpleasantly, I promise you! Lock them up.

[Cell]
KIRK: John Gill was the kindest, gentlest man I ever knew. For him to be a Nazi is impossible.
ISAK: Why did they take you? You're not a Zeon. He certainly is not one. Why do the Nazis treat you as enemies?
SPOCK: Why do the Nazis hate Zeons?
ISAK: Why? Because without us to hate, there'd be nothing to hold them together. So the Party has built us into a threat, a disease to be wiped out.
SPOCK: Is Zeon a threat to them?
ISAK: Where did you come from? Our warlike period ended dozens of generations ago. We came here. We thought we were civilizing the Ekosians.
SPOCK: It would seem the assumption was premature.
KIRK: Were they like this when you first came?
ISAK: Warlike, yes, but not vicious. That started when the Nazi movement began only a few years ago.
SPOCK: That would coincide with the time of John Gill's arrival.
ISAK: When they've destroyed us here, they will attack our planet. They'll use the technology we gave them. The danger is that taking life is so repugnant to our people, I'm afraid we'll go down without a struggle. But after what I saw in the street today, I think I could kill.
KIRK: Do you know the plan of this building?
ISAK: Why?
KIRK: If we can get to the SS weapons laboratory, get our weapons back, we might be able to stop the slaughter.
ISAK: Why should you be interested in saving Zeons?
KIRK: We must get our communicators, contact the ship.
SPOCK: Captain, the flaw in the plan is this locked door, and the guard beyond it. To the logical mind, the outlook is somewhat gloomy.
KIRK: The transponders.
SPOCK: Yes.
KIRK: And a way to shed some light on the gloom, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Of course. The rubindium crystals in the transponders.
ISAK: Are you trying to kill yourselves?
KIRK: I know it's there. McCoy put it in. There. Do you have the figures computed?
SPOCK: Yes. We must hold the crystals rigidly at a specific distance, which I believe should be twenty seven point two millimeters.
SPOCK: Twenty seven point two millimeters would be, approximately, there. That is, of course, a crude estimation.
ISAK: What is it you're making, some kind of radio?
KIRK: No, not a radio. The power from this light is very low.
SPOCK: Yes. To reach that light, I shall require some sort of platform.
KIRK: I would be honored, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Now, the rubindium crystals should find enough power here to achieve the necessary stimulus. As I recall from the history of physics, the ancient lasers were able to achieve the necessary excitation, even using crude natural crystals.
KIRK: Oh, Mister Spock, the guard did a professional job on my back. I'd appreciate it if you'd hurry.
SPOCK: Yes, of course, Captain. You realize that the aim will of course be very crude.
KIRK: I don't care if you hit the broad side of a barn. Just hurry, please.
SPOCK: Captain, why should I aim at such a structure?
KIRK: Never mind, Spock. Just get on with the job.
KIRK: Oh, my goodness. Beautiful. Oh, Spock Spock! Beautiful. Over there. I'll create a commotion.
KIRK: Help! Help! I'll talk! I'll talk! I can't stand it anymore! I'll talk! Guard! Guard, I'll talk!
KIRK: Guard, I'll talk. I'll talk. The pain
ISAK: Take me with you. Give me a chance to fight them.
SPOCK: May I remind you, we did not intend to fight.
ISAK: Take me with you, or you'll never find the laboratory.
KIRK: Take him with us, Mister Spock. He's got a point. He's our guide.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Which is the laboratory door?
ISAK: The end of the hall. (The door labeled Authorized Personnel only, not Fire Stairs only. A Nazi comes out of the room and locks the door.)
KIRK: All right, Zeon pigs, move. Zeon pigs. They do nothing right. Don't worry. They're on their way to the laboratory, for experimental work. They'll pay. Move!
KIRK: Move, move.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: Cover the door.
KIRK: Here they are. The communicators, disassembled. Can you get one to work?
SPOCK: Possibly.
ISAK: Who are you people? KIRK; The phasers?
SPOCK: I do not see them.
ISAK: Where do you come from?
KIRK: The alien pistols have been sent to Gestapo Command Headquarters. Well, that takes care of the phasers.
KIRK: You Zeons, for peaceful people, are pretty thorough.
ISAK: Yes. With this uniform, we can steal a car, get out of the capital.
KIRK: We came for John Gill.
SPOCK: Captain, without phasers, and until we are able to communicate with the ship, it is illogical to assume that we can hold out against the entire military force of this planet.
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock. You've made your point. Get into the uniform and hide those ears again.

[Street]
KIRK: Hunting's good. We've caught so many Zeons, we've got to dump them outside.

[Zeon hiding-place]
DAVOD: Who's with you?
ISAK: It's all right. They helped me escape from the prison. I owe them my life.
ABROM: Isak, what is all this?
ISAK: Abrom! Abrom, thank God you're well. This is my brother. They were in the prison. Beaten as I was, Abrom.
ABROM: Why were you in their prison?
KIRK: I was trying to see the Fuhrer.
ABROM: The Fuhrer?
KIRK: If I can see him, there may be a way of stopping this insanity.
ISAK: Abrom, I owe them my life.
ABROM: Isak, Uletta is dead. Shot down in the streets.
ISAK: She would've been my wife.
ABROM: She lived for five hours while they walked past her and spat on her. Our own people were unable to help her. Now you ask me to help strangers.
ISAK: If we adopt the ways of the Nazis, we're as bad as the Nazis.
SPOCK: Captain, I suggest the most profitable use of our time would be to reassemble our communicators. May I work undisturbed somewhere?
ABROM: This way.

[A side chamber]
SPOCK: By using parts from both, I've completed one communicator. I do not know if the circuits are correct, Captain. There is no way to test it, except in actual use.
KIRK: The Enterprise won't be within range for another hour.
DARAS: Over there. Against the wall, all of you.
KIRK: The girl on the viewscreen.
SPOCK: The one receiving a medal.
KIRK: Daras.
DARAS: Quiet. Hands in the air, Zeon swine. So you're the three who escaped from the Chancellery detention center. What was your plan? Speak. It's the last chance you'll get.
KIRK: I must see the Fuhrer. It's urgent.
DARAS: Urgent? I'll bet it is.
ABROM: I alone am responsible for what happens here.
DARAS: Do you know what we do to responsible Zeons?
DARAS: Now we finish the job.
ISAK: Stop, Nazis. After you've killed the last of us off, what do you do, turn the guns against yourselves?
ISAK: Don't shoot. Don't shoot, please.
ABROM: No, wait. No more. You've proved they're on our side.
ISAK: Now, please forgive us, but we had to be absolutely certain.
ABROM: Yes. If we had taken you into our confidence, we could've betrayed all our people if you'd been Nazi spies. All right, leave us.
ISAK: The Gestapo methods are frighteningly efficient. We must be very, very careful in order to survive here. We of the Underground don't know who our leaders are. That way, if we break under pressure, we can only betray a handful of our people.
SPOCK: This young lady is a Nazi, a hero of the Fatherland. We saw her being decorated.
DARAS: I'm an Ekosian fighting the terrible thing that's happened to my people. The decoration was for betraying my own father to the Party. It was my father's idea. You see, he used to be very close to the Fuhrer. Then he saw the changes and where they were leading. He turned against the Party. They imprisoned him. Melakon sentenced him to death.
KIRK: Melakon?
ABROM: The Deputy Fuhrer. He's taken over.
DARAS: My father denounced me, making it appear like I'd betrayed him. He gave me a weapon to continue the fight with.
KIRK: How could this have seemed right to John Gill?
ABROM: Who?
KIRK: John Gill, your Fuhrer. He's one of our people.
ABROM: And what is your people?
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. This is my first officer, Mister Spock. John Gill, your Fuhrer, was sent here by the Federation as a cultural observer.
DARAS: You mean that the Fuhrer is an alien?
SPOCK: That is correct.
DARAS: I grew up to admire him, later to hate and despise everything he stands for. But I always thought he was one of us. Now to hear that he's an alien sent here to destroy us
KIRK: That was not his mission, ever. He was sent here to observe, not to interfere. Something went wrong, and that's why we're here. To find out and to correct. We must see him.
ISAK: It's impossible. Even if this were another time, it still would be impossible. He sees no one. No one but Melakon. He's under maximum security.
KIRK: Maximum security. Is he so afraid?
ISAK: There are many of us, both Ekosians and younger Zeons, who would gladly risk our lives to kill him.
KIRK: I don't understand what's going on here. This goes against every principle that John Gill ever believed in. Our only chance is to see him, and quickly.
DARAS: He makes a speech tonight from the Chancellery. All the top Party officials will be there.
KIRK: Will you be there?
DARAS: Of course. As a symbol of the proper attitude toward the Fatherland.
SPOCK: As an honored member of the Party, she could get us past the guards.
DARAS: Only the top, most trusted, officials will be allowed in. The country will watch on the viewscreens.
ISAK: I'm afraid it will be a formal declaration of war against Zeon. Their Final Solution.
KIRK: You must get us in there.
DARAS: It would be suicide.
ISAK: Well it's a risk living at all the way things are going. If the Captain believes he has a chance, I'm willing to commit suicide with him.
DARAS: You, a Zeon? You expect to get into the Chancellery?
ISAK: It's even more my fight than yours.

[Chancellery entrance]
KIRK: Lights.
GUARD: You, what is your business here?
KIRK: Get me some lights on her.
GUARD: It's Party Secretary Daras.
DARAS: The Fuhrer's special documentary corps. Smile, Corporal.
KIRK: Excuse me.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, I'm beginning to understand why you Earthmen enjoy gambling. No matter how carefully one computes the odds of success, there is still a certain exhilaration in the risk.
KIRK: Very good, Spock. We may make a human of you yet. SPOCK; I hope not.
KIRK: Let's go.

[Entrance to Main room]
KIRK: Lights. Thank you. Where does the Fuhrer enter?
DARAS: He doesn't. They watch him on the big screen. There, at the end of the room. He broadcasts from the booth for security.
KIRK: They've got the booth curtained off. Bring that light to the side of her face. Where's the entrance to the broadcast booth?
DARAS: There, at the end of the corridor. You're not going to try to get into the broadcast booth.
KIRK: We're going to try.
ISAK: Sir, is this light better here?
KIRK: Good.
ISAK: If you distract the guard long enough, I can get a machine gun. It's a small booth, I could shoot through the door.
KIRK: We're here to get John Gill, and alive, not for your personal satisfaction. Is that clear? Let's try down there.

[Outside the booth]
KIRK: Lights, please. Gentlemen, this is for the record of the Fuhrer's Final Solution speech.
DARAS: We're documenting the men responsible for
KIRK: Smile, gentlemen. There will be more coverage later. Thank you very much. Let's get a moving shot down the hall.

[Corridor]
ISAK: So, what have we accomplished? You should have let me shoot him.
SPOCK: Captain, it was John Gill, but he never moved. Never once looked up.
KIRK: Yes, well, that may be part of the plan, the semi-divine detachment.
SPOCK: Or a deep psychosis.
KIRK: It may be simpler than that. He may be drugged. We need McCoy. Is there a place, a room we can be alone for a few minutes? I'm going to send for help.
DARAS: Send for?
KIRK: It takes too long to explain. Any place will do.
ISAK: The cloakroom?

[Cloakroom]
SPOCK: It may not have the range it had. In fact, it may not work at all.
KIRK: Think positively, Spock.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise. Come in, Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura.
KIRK: Captain here. Put McCoy on.
UHURA (voiceover): Yes, sir. Captain, we're not reading you well. You're nine points into the low-frequency band.
KIRK: We've having difficulty. Patch historical computer into uniform section. I want McCoy outfitted as a Gestapo doctor Nazi Germany, old Earth date 1944. Make him a colonel.
UHURA (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Main room]
ENEG: Search the building.

[Cloakroom]
MCCOY (voiceover): What have you got, Jim?
KIRK: We found John Gill. At least, we've seen him. He may be drugged, hypnotized, or psychotic. You'll have to make a determination. Hurry with that uniform.
KIRK: What is it?
DARAS: Isak just heard two security men. They picked up your broadcast, pin-pointed it within this building. They're starting to search.
SPOCK: If there's going to be a delay in transporting the doctor, I suggest we cancel our
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. What's happening up there?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Doctor McCoy is having difficulty with that uniform, sir.

[Cloakroom]
KIRK: Send him down naked if you have to. Kirk out.
DARAS: It's true. I only half-believed what you said.
MCCOY: Stupid computer made a mistake in the measurements. The right boot's too tight.
SPOCK: There is a logical way to proceed, Doctor. Point your toe, apply equal pressure to either side of the boot, and push. We have no time for emotionalism.
KIRK: This is Doctor McCoy, our Chief Medical Officer. Daras, secretary to the National Socialist Party.
MCCOY: How do you do? What in blazes is this?
DARAS: Chairman Eneg.
KIRK: The Colonel is drunk. He's had a little too much to drink.
ENEG: I see.
KIRK: Yes, he thought he would embarrass the Fuhrer.
SPOCK: Yes. A doctor should have more pride.
ENEG: You were right to conceal him. There's a spy in this building with a secret transmitter. We're conducting a search. Hail the Fuhrer.
ALL: Hail the Fuhrer.
SPOCK: Captain, I do not understand how he failed to recognize us.
KIRK: Nor do I, but luck is something you also fail to recognize, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: True. I shall reconsider.
DARAS: The Fuhrer's speech.
KIRK: Let's go.

[Main room]
ALL: Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer!
GILL: Ekosians. The job ahead is difficult. It requires courage and dedication. It requires faith. The Zeon colony has existed for nearly half a century.
KIRK: Watch his mouth.
GILL: If we fulfilll our own greatness, that will all be ended. Working together
SPOCK: Captain, the speech follows no logical pattern.
KIRK: Random sentences strung together.
GILL: Will at times be difficult.
MCCOY: He looks drugged, Jim. Almost at a cataleptic state.
GILL: To reach our goal, And we will reach that goal.
MCCOY: I have to have a close look at him.
GILL: must be decisive. Every thought directed toward a goal. This planet can become a paradise, if we are willing to pay the price. As each cell in the body works with diskipline and harmony for the good of the entire being

[Corridor]
KIRK: Gentlemen, I want a picture of you two with the Hero of the Fatherland listening to the stirring Fuhrer's speech. Get that light over there, please. Get this light around here. Smile, gentlemen. Turn around, smile, and now.
KIRK: It's locked. Keys.

[Main room]
ALL: Hail the Fuhrer!
MELAKON: Hail the Fuhrer!
ALL: Hail the Fuhrer!
MELAKON: The Fuhrer has given us our orders, and we pledge him our lives in this sacred task. Death to Zeon!
ALL: Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!

[Broadcast booth]
ALL (voiceover): Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!
MCCOY: Definitely drugged, almost comatose.
SPOCK: What drug?
MCCOY: I can't identify it without a medi-comp. Without knowing, an antidote would be dangerous.
KIRK: Is there anything you do?
MCCOY: I can give him a general stimulant, but it would be risky.
KIRK: Take the risk.
MELAKON (voiceover): But despite our best efforts, they remain like a cancer, eating away at our state.
ISAK: There's no reaction. Whatever you gave him isn't working.
KIRK: Bones, increase the dosage.
MCCOY: I'm working in the dark. I could kill him.
DARAS: If they find us here, we'll all be killed.

[Main room]
MELAKON: Ten minutes ago, on our Fuhrer's orders, our troops began their historic mission.

[Broadcast booth]
MELAKON (voiceover): In the cities, the eliminations have started. Within an hour, the Zeon blight will forever be removed from Ekos.
DARAS: It's begun. It's finally begun.
MCCOY: The stimulant's working.
MELAKON (voiceover): I now announce the glorious final solution.
MCCOY: He's reaching a level of consciousness. It's almost like he's in a light sleep. Now, that's as much as I dare do.
MELAKON (voiceover): Our entire solar system will forever be rid of the disease that was Zeon.
KIRK: Spock, try to get through to him with a mind probe. If you can't, Bones, you'll have to use a stronger stimulant, no matter what it does.
MELAKON (voiceover): Our space fleet is on its way toward Zeon, both manned and unmanned weapons.

[Main room]
MELAKON: This is the time of destiny. Hail victory!
ALL: Hail victory! Hail victory! Hail victory!

[Broadcast booth]
DARAS: There's one chance left. If you'd use the weapons you have, you could destroy the fleet.
KIRK: That would mean the death of thousands of Ekosian spacemen.
ISAK: Many of my friends are aboard that ship, many of the Underground.
DARAS: Yes, but against those thousands are millions of innocent Zeon lives. You've got to choose the lesser of two evils.
KIRK: We could save Zeon, but what about Ekos?
SPOCK: Captain. I have created a condition in which Gill cannot initiate speech or any other action, but he can reply to questions.
KIRK: Well done, Spock. They've kept what's left of him as a figure head.
SPOCK: Quite correct. For the last few years, the real power has been Melakon.
KIRK: Gill. Gill, why did you abandon your mission? Why did you interfere with this culture?
GILL: Planet fragmented. Divided. Took lesson from Earth history.
KIRK: But why Nazi Germany? You studied history. You knew what the Nazis were.
GILL: Most efficient state Earth ever knew.
SPOCK: Quite true, Captain. That tiny country, beaten, bankrupt, defeated, rose in a few years to stand only one step away from global domination.
KIRK: But it was brutal, perverted, had to be destroyed at a terrible cost. Why that example?
SPOCK: Perhaps Gill felt that such a state, run benignly, could accomplish its efficiency without sadism.
KIRK: Why, Gill? Why?
GILL: Worked. At first it worked. Then Melakon began take over. Used the. Gave me the drug.
KIRK: Gill. Gill. Gill, can you hear me? You've got to tell those people what happened! You're the only one who can prevent the slaughter! Gill!
MCCOY: He's still alive, but the drug they use is too strong. If I give him another shot
KIRK: Bones, give him another shot!
MCCOY: I don't dare.
ISAK: Guards.
KIRK: We've run out of time, Bones. No, wait. Aim it at Spock. Spock, take off the helmet.
ISAK: For the second time in one day, Daras is a hero to the Fatherland.
KIRK: She captured a Zeon spy that was attempting to assassinate the Fuhrer.
ENEG: Guards.
ISAK: Yes, let us make an example of this traitor once and for all.
KIRK: We'll make a present of him to Melakon.
ISAK: Chairman Eneg, this spy must be taken to Melakon.
ENEG: Pass them on my responsibility.
ISAK: Eneg is one of us.
KIRK: Stay close to Spock. Stall for time. And hope. (They leave him alone with Gill.

[Main room]
MELAKON: What is this?
ISAK: A spy, Excellency.
DARAS: A rare prize. The Deputy Fuhrer can see this is no ordinary Zeon.
MELAKON: No, not a Zeon, definitely not.

[Broadcast booth]
KIRK: Professor Gill, can you hear me? You've got to speak. You've got to speak. This is our last chance. Gill?

[Main room]
DARAS: The Deputy Fuhrer's an authority on the genetics of racial purity. How would you classify this one?
MELAKON: Very difficult. Note the sinister eyes and the malformed ears. Definitely an inferior race.

[Broadcast booth]
KIRK: Professor. Professor! You've got to talk! You've got to tell them what happened. You've got to come out of it. Come on, Professor. Come on. Come on.

[Main room]
MELAKON: Note the low forehead, denoting stupidity. The dull look of a trapped animal. You may take him now for interrogation, but I want the body saved for the Cultural Museum. He'll make an interesting display.
GILL: People. People of Ekos.
MELAKON: Go to the booth. See to the Fuhrer at once. He's ill. Turn off that camera.
GILL: Hear me.
MELAKON: I suggest we leave and let our Fuhrer rest.
GILL (voiceover): We were betrayed by a self-seeking adventurer who has led us all to the very brink of disaster. I order the immediate recall of the space fleet. This attack must stop. All units are to return to base. To Zeon I promise, this was not an aggression of Ekosian people.

[Broadcast booth]
GILL: Only one evil man. Melakon

[Main room]
GILL (voiceover): Is a traitor to his own people and all that we stand for. To the Zeon people, I promise reparation and
ENEG: Wait, soldier. There's been enough killing. Now we'll start to live the way the Fuhrer meant us to live.

[Broadcast booth]
GILL: I was wrong. The non-interference Directive is the only way. We must stop the slaughter.
KIRK: You did that, Professor. You told them in time.
GILL: Even historians fail to learn from history. They repeat the same mistakes. Let the killing end. Let
SPOCK: Is he dead, Captain?
KIRK: Dead.
ISAK: For so long I've prayed for this. Now I'm sorry.
KIRK: So is he.
ISAK: You've given us all a new chance.
ENEG: Thank you, but go now. We must do the rest.
DARAS: Eneg and I will go on the air, offer a new way for our people. For all our people, both Zeons and Ekosians.
ENEG: It is time to stop the bloodshed, to bury our dead.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Mister Spock, I think the planet is in good hands.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. With the union of two cultures, this system would make a fine addition to the Federation.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise here, Captain.
KIRK: Beam us aboard.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, I never will understand humans. How could a man as brilliant, a mind as logical as John Gill's, have made such a fatal error?
KIRK: He drew the wrong conclusion from history. The problem with the Nazis wasn't simply that their leaders were evil, psychotic men. They were, but the main problem, I think, was the leader principle.
MCCOY: What he's saying, Spock, is that a man who holds that much power, even with the best intentions, just can't resist the urge to play God.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor. I was able to gather the meaning.
MCCOY: It also proves another Earth saying. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Darn clever, these Earthmen, wouldn't you say?
SPOCK: Yes. Earthmen like Ramses, Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, Lee Kuan. Your whole Earth history is made up of men seeking absolute power.
MCCOY: Spock, you obviously don't understand
SPOCK: Obviously, Doctor, you fail to accept
KIRK: Gentlemen. Gentlemen, we've just been through one civil war. Let's not start another. Mister Chekov, take us out of orbit. Warp factor two, and hurry.

[Bridge]
SULU: Standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Not now, Leslie. Lieutenant, contact the space station.
UHURA: Captain, the station is calling us.
KIRK: All right. Put them on.
ENWRIGHT (voiceover): Captain Kirk, this is Commodore Enwright.
KIRK: Yes, Commodore, I'd like an explanation
ENWRIGHT (voiceover): The explanation is beaming aboard now, Captain. He may already be in your transporter room.
KIRK: Spock.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Bob.
WESLEY: Are you surprised?
KIRK: I'll say. Spock, this is
SPOCK: Commodore Wesley. How do you do, sir?
WESLEY: Mister Spock.
KIRK: All right, Ensign. You can go. Thank you very much. Would you mind telling me what this is all about? I receive orders to proceed here. No reason given. I'm informed that my men will be removed to the space station, to a security holding area. I think I'm entitled to an explanation.
WESLEY: You've had a singular honor conferred on you, Jim. You're going to be the fox in the hunt.
KIRK: What's that?
WESLEY: War games. I'll be commanding the attack force against you.
KIRK: An entire attack force against my ship?
WESLEY: Have you heard of the M-5 multitronic unit?
KIRK: That's Doctor Richard Daystrom's device, isn't it? Tell me about that.
SPOCK: The most ambitious computer complex ever created. Its purpose is to correlate all computer activity aboard a starship, to provide the ultimate in vessel operation and control.
WESLEY: How do you know so much about it, Commander?
SPOCK: I hold an A-7 computer expert classification, Commodore. I'm well acquainted with Doctor Daystrom's theories and diskoveries. The basic design of all our ship's computers are Doctor Daystrom's.
KIRK: What has all this got to do with the Enterprise?
WESLEY: You've been chosen to test the M-5, Jim. There'll be a series of routine research and contact problems for the M-5 to solve, plus navigational maneuvers and the war games problem. If the M-5 works under actual conditions as well as it has under simulated tests, it will mean a revolution in space technology as great as warp drive. When your crew has been removed, the ship's engineering section will be modified to contain the computer.
KIRK: Why remove my crew?
WESLEY: They're not needed.
KIRK: How much security does this gadget require?
WESLEY: None. Doctor Daystrom will see to the installlation himself and he'll supervise the tests. When he's ready, you'll receive your orders and proceed on the mission with a crew of twenty.
KIRK: Twenty? I can't run a starship with twenty crew.
WESLEY: The M-5 can.
KIRK: And what am I supposed to do?
WESLEY: You've got a great job, Jim. All you have to do is sit back and let the machine do the work. Captain's Log, stardate 4729.4. The M-5 computer has been installled on board ship, and we have left the space station for test maneuvers.

[Turbolift]
MCCOY: I don't like it, Jim. A vessel this size cannot be run by one computer.
SPOCK: We are attempting to prove it can run this ship more efficiently than man.
MCCOY: Maybe you're trying to prove that, Spock, but don't count me in on it.
SPOCK: The most unfortunate lack in current computer programming is that there is nothing available to immediately replace the starship surgeon.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Very funny. If it could, they wouldn't have to replace me. I'd resign because everybody else aboard would be nothing but circuits and memory banks. You know the type, Spock. Jim, you haven't had much to say about this.
KIRK: What do you want me to say? M-5 is an honor, they tell me. Well, I'm honored.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Where is he? Scotty, where's Doctor Daystrom?
SCOTT: He was here. Doctor.
DAYSTROM: Yes? Ah, you'd be Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Doctor Daystrom, this is my first officer, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I am honored, Doctor.
DAYSTROM: Thank you. Thank you very much. Captain, I've finished my tests on the M-5, and it must be hooked into your main power plants in order to be operative.
KIRK: Well, by all means, do so.
DAYSTROM: Your engineer there wouldn't allow us the power necessary without your orders.
KIRK: Mister Scott, hook in the multitronic unit to the ship's main power banks.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir. Mister Harper.
SPOCK: Fascinating, Doctor. This computer has a potential beyond anything you've ever done. Even your breakthrough in duotronics did not have the promise of this.
SPOCK: The M-5 has been perfected, Commander. Its potential is a fact.
MCCOY: Frankly, the only fact that I'm concerned about is if this thing doesn't work, there are not enough men aboard to run the ship. That's begging for trouble.
DAYSTROM: Now, who is this?
MCCOY: Doctor Leonard McCoy, senior medical officer.
DAYSTROM: Well, I'm sorry, but this is a security area.
KIRK: I wouldn't worry, Doctor. Doctor McCoy has clearance throughout the ship.
MCCOY: Is it supposed to do that?
SPOCK: If I can be of assistance, Doctor.
DAYSTROM: No, no, no. Thank you. I can manage. There's nothing wrong, Captain. Just a few minor settling-in adjustments to make. As you can see, all is in order now.
KIRK: I'm curious, Doctor. Why is it called M-5 and not M-1?
DAYSTROM: Well, you see, the multitronic units one through four were not entirely successful. This one is. M-5 is ready to take control of the ship.
KIRK: Total control?
DAYSTROM: That is what it was designed for, Captain.
KIRK: There are certain things men must do to remain men. Your computer would take that away.
DAYSTROM: There are other things a man like you might do. Or perhaps you object to the possible loss of prestige and ceremony accorded a starship captain. A computer can do your job and without all that.
KIRK: You'll have to prove that to me, Doctor.
DAYSTROM: That is what we're here for, isn't it, Captain?

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Did you see the love light in Spock's eyes? The right computer finally came along. What's the matter, Jim?
KIRK: I think that thing is wrong, and I don't know why.
MCCOY: I think it's wrong, too, replacing men with mindless machines.
KIRK: I don't mean that. I'm getting a Red Alert right here. That thing is dangerous. I feel. Only a fool would stand in the way of progress, if this is progress. You have my psychological profiles. Am I afraid of losing my job to that computer?
MCCOY: Jim, we've all seen the advances of mechanization. After all, Daystrom did design the computers that run this ship.
KIRK: Under human control.
MCCOY: We're all sorry for the other guy when he loses his job to a machine. When it comes to your job, that's different. And it always will be different.
KIRK: Am I afraid of losing command to a computer? Daystrom's right. I can do a lot of other things. Am I afraid of losing the prestige and the power that goes with being a starship captain? Is that why I'm fighting it? Am I that petty?
MCCOY: Jim, if you have the awareness to ask yourself that question, you don't need me to answer it for you. Why don't you ask James T. Kirk? He's a pretty honest guy.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The M-5 computer is now disengaged.
SULU: We're coming back on our original course, Captain.
SPOCK: M-5 has performed admirably so far.
KIRK: All it's done is make the required course changes and some simple turns. Mister Sulu and Mister Chekov could've done that with their eyes closed.
DAYSTROM: Yes, but you see, the idea is they didn't have to do it. And you'll find it won't be necessary for you to regain control of the unit after it's completed each maneuver.
KIRK: My orders are subject to my interpretation of how long the M-5 is in control. I'll run the ship in my own way, if you don't mind, Doctor Daystrom.
SPOCK: Captain, I am forced to agree with Doctor Daystrom. With the course information plotted into it, his computer could have brought us here as easily as the navigator. In fact, it might have been a further demonstration of M-5's capability.
KIRK: You seem to enjoy trusting yourself to the computer.
SPOCK: Enjoy, Captain? No. I'm merely gratified to see Doctor Daystrom's new unit execute everything required of it in such a highly efficient manner. M-5 is another distinguished triumph for his career.
CHEKOV: Approaching Alpha Carinae Two. ETA five minutes.
DAYSTROM: Captain, your orders at this point are not open to interpretation. You must commit the M-5 to handle its approach, the orbit, and then to analyze data regarding landing party recommendations.
KIRK: If you don't mind, I'll make my own recommendations.
DAYSTROM: Well, if you feel you need the exercise, go on, Captain.
KIRK: M-5 is committed.
KIRK: Standard orbit, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Captain, the M-5 has calculated that. The orbit is already plotted.
KIRK: Oh, yes.
SULU: Standard orbit achieved, Captain.
KIRK: Report, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: The planet is class M, Captain. Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere suitable for human life support. Two major land masses, a number of islands, life form readings.
SCOTT: Captain, power shutdowns on deck four. Lights, environmental control.
KIRK: Check it out, Scotty.
SPOCK: M-5's readout, Captain.
KIRK: All right, my recommendations are as follows. We send down general survey party, avoiding contact of all intelligent life on the planet's surface. The survey party will consist of myself, Doctor McCoy, Astrobiologist Phillips, Geologist Rawlins and Science Officer Spock.
DAYSTROM: Play M-5's recommendations, won't you, Mister Spock?
M5: M-5 readout, planet Alpha Carinae Two. Class M, atmosphere, oxygen-nitrogen.
SCOTT: The power's gone off on deck five.
M5: Categorisation of life form readings recorded. Recommendations for general survey party. Science officer Spock, Astrobiologist Phillips, Geologist Carstairs.
KIRK: Well, the only difference in reports and recommendations is the landing party personnel. That's only a matter of judgment.
DAYSTROM: Judgment, Captain?
SPOCK: Captain, the computer does not judge. It makes logical selections.
KIRK: Why pick Carstairs instead of Rawlins? Carstairs is an ensign, no experience. This is his first tour of duty. Rawlins is chief geologist.
DAYSTROM: Aren't you really more interested in why M-5 did not select you and Doctor McCoy? Well, let's find out anyway. M-5 tie-in.
M5: M-5.
DAYSTROM: Explanation for landing party recommendation.
M5: General survey party requires direction of science officer. Astrobiologist Phillips has surveyed twenty nine biologically similar planets. Geologist Carstairs served on merchant marine freighters in this area. Once visited planet on geology survey for mining company.
DAYSTROM: Why were the Captain and the Chief Medical Officer not included in recommendation?
M5: Non-essential personnel.
SCOTT: Captain, I've located the source of the power shutdowns. It's the M-5 unit, sir. That thing's turning off systems all over the ship.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Have you located the malfunction, Doctor?
DAYSTROM: As I suspected, it is not a malfunction. M-5 was merely shutting down power to areas of the ship that do not require it. Decks four and six are living quarters, are they not?
KIRK: Yes, that's correct.
DAYSTROM: And currently unoccupied.
SPOCK: I am not familiar with these instruments, Doctor. You are using an entirely new type of control mechanism. However, it appears to me this unit is drawing more power than before.
DAYSTROM: Quite right. As the unit is called upon to do more work, it pulls more power to enable it to do what is required of it, just as the human body draws more energy to run than to stand still.
SPOCK: Doctor, this unit is not a human body. The computer can process information, but only the information which is put into it.
KIRK: Granted, it can work a thousand, a million times faster than the human brain, but it can't make a value judgment. It hasn't intuition. It can't think.
DAYSTROM: Can't you understand? The multitronic unit is a revolution in computer science. I designed the duotronic elements used in your ship right now, and I know they are as archaic as dinosaurs compared to the M-5. A whole new approach.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it?
UHURA (voiceover): Sensors are picking up a vessel paralleling our course, as yet unidentified.
KIRK: I'll be right up.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What are you doing here, Bones?
MCCOY: All the Sickbay systems are shut down until such time as the M-5 is informed there are patients to be cared for.
SPOCK: Captain, sensors report two contacts now. One on the port bow, one on the stern. Distance, two hundred thousand kilometers and closing.
KIRK: Identification.
CHEKOV: Captain, the M-5 unit has already identified the vessels as Federation starships Excalibur and Lexington.
SPOCK: We are not scheduled for war games in this area. This may be a surprise attack as a problem for the M-5.
UHURA: Priority message coming in, sir.
KIRK: Put it on audio.
WESLEY (voiceover): Enterprise from Commodore Wesley aboard the USS Lexington. This is an unscheduled M-5 drill. Repeat, this is an M-5 drill. Enterprise, acknowledge on this frequency.
KIRK: Acknowledge, Lieutenant.
UHURA: M-5 has acknowledged for us, sir.
KIRK: Then go to Red Alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Captain, M-5 has
KIRK: Already sounded the Red Alert. All right, Mister Sulu, phasers one one hundredth power. No damage potential, just enough to nudge them.
SULU: Phasers one one hundredth power, sir.
SPOCK: Phaser hit on port deflector four, Captain.
SULU: Speed increasing to warp three. Turning now to one one two mark five. Phasers locking on target, sir.
CHEKOV: Enemy vessel closing with us.
SULU: Main phasers firing. A hit, sir. Two more.
CHEKOV: Changing course to two eight mark four two.
SULU: Phasers firing again.
CHEKOV: Turning to one one three mark five. Warp four speed.
SULU: Firing again.
SPOCK: Attacking vessels are moving off.
CHEKOV: Moving back to original course and speed.
KIRK: Report on damage sustained in mock attack.
SPOCK: Minor hit on deflector screen four. No appreciable damage.
DAYSTROM: Rather impressive display for a machine, wouldn't you say, Captain?
KIRK: Evaluation of M-5 performance. It'll be necessary for the log.
SPOCK: The ship reacted more rapidly than human control could have maneuverd her. Tactics, deployment of weapons, all indicate an immense sophistication in computer control.
KIRK: Machine over man, Spock? It was impressive. It might even be practical.
SPOCK: Practical, Captain? Perhaps. But not desirable. Computers make excellent and efficient servants, but I have no wish to serve under them. Captain the starship also runs on loyalty to one man, and nothing can replace it, or him.
UHURA: Captain, message now coming in from Commodore Wesley.
KIRK: Put it on visual.
WESLEY (screen): USS Enterprise from starships Lexington and Excalibur. Both ships report simulated hits in sufficient quantity and location to justify awarding the surprise engagement to Enterprise.
KIRK: Secure from general quarters.
WESLEY (screen): Our compliments to the M-5 unit, and regards to Captain Dunsel. Wesley out.
MCCOY: Dunsel? Who the blazes is Captain Dunsel? What does it mean, Jim? Spock? What does it mean?
SPOCK: Dunsel, Doctor, is a term used by midshipmen at Starfleet Academy. It refers to a part which serves no useful purpose.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: I'm not interested in eating, Bones.
MCCOY: This isn't chicken soup. I may be just a ship's doctor, but I make a Finagle's Folly that's known from here to Orion. I strongly prescribe it, Jim.
KIRK: I've, I've never felt this way before. At odds with the ship. I sat there and watched my ship perform for a mass of circuits and relays, and felt useless. Unneeded. To Captain Dunsel.
MCCOY: To James T. Kirk, Captain of the Enterprise.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor. That's one of your better prescriptions.
MCCOY: Simple but effective.
KIRK: Do you know the one, 'All I ask is a tall ship'?
MCCOY: It's a line from a poem. A very old poem, isn't it?
KIRK: 20th century Earth. 'All I ask is a tall ship, and a star to steer by'. You could feel the wind at your back in those days. The sounds of the sea beneath you. And even if you take away the wind and the water, it's still the same. The ship is yours. You can feel her. And the stars are still there, Bones.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk to the bridge, please. Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Another contact, Captain. A large, slow-moving vessel.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Unidentified. This is not a drill.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: On my way.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, there's no response to any of our signals, but M-5 has given us an autorelay.
SPOCK: M-5 has identified her, Captain. The Woden. Listed in Starfleet Registry as an old-style ore freighter converted to automation. No crew. Coming into visual range.
SULU: Captain, deflector shields just came on.
CHEKOV: Speed increasing to warp three, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, get Daystrom up here. Disengaging M-5 unit. Cut speed to warp one. Navigator, go to course one one three mark seven. I want that ship given a wide berth.
SULU: She won't respond, sir. She's maintaining course.
CHEKOV: Going to warp four, sir.
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Scotty, reverse engines. Slow us down.
SCOTT: Reverse thrusts will not engage, sir. Manual override isn't working either.
SPOCK: No effect on any of the M-5 controls, Captain.
MCCOY: Fantastic machine, the M-5. No off switch.
DAYSTROM: Captain, what is it?
KIRK: These controls are locked. We can't disengage the computer.
SPOCK: Captain, photon torpedoes locking on target. Full power.
SULU: I already tried, sir.
KIRK: Daystrom, release that computer control!
CHEKOV: Returning to original course and speed.
SPOCK: All systems report normal, Captain.
MCCOY: Normal? That thing's trying to tell us nothing has happened.
KIRK: Disengage this computer now.
DAYSTROM: There appears to be some defect in the control panel.
MCCOY: There certainly does. Your brilliant young computer just destroyed an ore freighter. In fact it went out of its way to destroy an ore freighter!
DAYSTROM: Fortunately it was only a robot ship.
KIRK: But it shouldn't have destroyed anything. There might just as easily have been a crew aboard that ship.
MCCOY: In which case you'd be guilty of murder.
KIRK: Bones. Disengage the computer. Lieutenant, contact Starfleet Command. Tell them we are breaking off M-5 tests and returning to the space station. Come along, Doctor Daystrom, M-5 is out of a job.

[Engineering]
KIRK: All right, Daystrom, let's turn this thing off.
KIRK: Force field?
DAYSTROM: It's not my doing, Kirk.
SPOCK: I would say, Captain, that M-5 is not only capable of taking care of this ship, it is also capable of taking care of itself.
KIRK: You mean it's not going to let any of us turn it off. Captain 's Log, stardate 4731.3. The M-5 multitronic unit has taken over total control of the Enterprise.

[Engineering]
KIRK: All right, Doctor, you built this thing. How do you propose to turn it off?
DAYSTROM: This exercise is a trial for M-5. A shakedown. We must expect minor difficulties, but I assure you they can be corrected.
KIRK: Correct it after you release control of my ship.
DAYSTROM: I can't.
SCOTT: Captain, I suggest we diskonnect it at the source.
DAYSTROM: Give me a few moments with it.
KIRK: No! Stay here. All right, Scotty. Turn it off.
KIRK: That wasn't a minor difficulty. That wasn't a robot. That thing murdered one of my crewman and you tell me you can't turn it off?
DAYSTROM: It wasn't a deliberate act. M-5's analysis told it it needed a new power source. The ensign simply got in the way.
KIRK: And how long will it be before all of us simply get in the way?
SPOCK: M-5 appears drawing power directly from the warp engines, tapping the matter-antimatter reserves.
SCOTT: So now it has virtually unlimited power. Captain, what'll we do?
KIRK: Spock, Scotty, come with me.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Report, Spock.
SPOCK: The multitronic unit is drawing more and more power directly from the warp engines. The computer now controls all helm, navigation, and engineering functions.
MCCOY: And communications and fire control.
KIRK: We'll reach the rendezvous point for the war games within an hour. We must regain control of the ship by then.
SPOCK: There is one possibility. The automatic helm navigation circuit relays might be disrupted from engineering level three.
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: Aye. I can take them out and cut in the manual override from there.
KIRK: How long?
SCOTT: If Mister Spock helps me, maybe an hour.
KIRK: Make it less.
MCCOY: I'll get the man responsible in the first place. Where is Daystrom?
KIRK: He's with the M-5 unit, watching it. I think it surprised even him.
SPOCK: Most illogical. Of all people, he should have known how the computer would perform. Of course, the M-5 itself has not behaved logically.
MCCOY: Please, Spock, do me a favor and don't say it's fascinating.
SPOCK: No. But it is interesting.

[Jefferies tube]
SCOTT: Aye, that's got it, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Good.

[Engineering]
MCCOY: Have you found a solution, a way to shut that thing off?
DAYSTROM: You don't shut a child off when it makes a mistake. M-5 is growing, learning.
MCCOY: Learning to kill.
DAYSTROM: To defend itself. It's quite a different thing. When a child is taught, it's programd with simple instructions, and at some point, if its mind develops properly, it exceeds the sum of what it was taught, thinks independently.
MCCOY: That thing is a danger to us all. Now find some way to shut it off.
DAYSTROM: You can't understand. You're frightened because you can't understand it. I'm going to show you. I'm going to show all of you. It takes four hundred thirty people to man a starship. With this, you don't need anyone. One machine can do all those things they send men out to do now. Men no longer need die in space or on some alien world. Men can live and go on to achieve greater things than fact-finding and dying for galactic space, which is neither ours to give or to take. They can't understand. We don't want to destroy life, we want to save it.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: The biographical tape of Richard Daystrom.
KIRK: Did you find anything?
MCCOY: Not much, aside from the fact he's a genius.
KIRK: Genius is an understatement. At the age of twenty four, he made the duotronic breakthrough that won him the Nobel and Zee-Magnes prizes.
MCCOY: In his early twenties, Jim. That's over a quarter of a century ago.
KIRK: Isn't that enough for one lifetime?
MCCOY: Maybe that's the trouble. Where do you go from up? You publish articles, you give lectures, then spend your life trying to recapture past glory.
KIRK: All right, it's difficult. What's your point?
MCCOY: The M-1 through M-4, remember? Not entirely successful. That's the way Daystrom put it.
KIRK: Genius doesn't work on an assembly line basis. Did Einstein, Kazanga, or Sitar of Vulcan produce new and revolutionary theories on a regular schedule? You can't simply say, today I will be brilliant. No matter how long it took, he came out with multitronics. The M-5.
MCCOY: Right. The government bought it, then Daystrom had to make it work. And he did. But according to Spock, it works illogically.
KIRK: And he won't let Spock near it. What are you saying, that he's tampering with it, that he's making it act that way? Why?
MCCOY: Jim, if a man had a child who'd gone antisocial, killed perhaps, he'd still tend to protect that child.
KIRK: Now he's got you talking about that machine like a personality.
MCCOY: I'm afraid that's the way he thinks about it.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): We are ready, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Get Daystrom. We're on our way. Let's go.

[Corridor]
DAYSTROM: What is it, Captain?
KIRK: We're going to find out, Doctor.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Mister Scott is ready to apply the circuit disrupter. As he does so, I shall trip the manual override into control.
KIRK: Good, go ahead.
DAYSTROM: No! No, no, no. You can't take control from the M-5.
KIRK: Daystrom, we're going to do our best.
DAYSTROM: You can't do it. Now let me work with it for a while, please. Please.
KIRK: Spock.
SCOTT: That's it, Mister Spock.
DAYSTROM: Please, please!
SPOCK: Manual override is in control, Captain.
KIRK: Bridge, this is Kirk. Sulu?
SULU (voiceover): Lieutenant Sulu here, sir.
KIRK: We've got helm and navigational control. Turn us about. Have Mister Chekov plot a course back to the space station.

[Bridge]
SULU: Right away, sir. You heard him.
CHEKOV: I've been updating that course for hours.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): Helm to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, helm doesn't respond. Navigational controls still locked in by M-5.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Chekov here, sir.
KIRK: Go to the engineering station.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): Examine the H two seven nine elements, also the G nine five systems.
CHEKOV: Sir, G nine five system appears dead.

[Corridor]
CHEKOV (voiceover): All indicators are dark.
SPOCK: Thank you, Ensign.
SPOCK: It appears, Captain, we've been doing what used to be called pursuing a wild goose. M-5 has rerouted helm and navigational controls, bypassing this primary system.
SCOTT: But it was active. I'd stake all that I know that it was.
SPOCK: I believe that when M-5 diskovered our tampering, it rerouted the controls, leaving this one active by simply sending through an electronic impulse at regular intervals.
MCCOY: Decoyed. It wanted us to waste our time.
KIRK: While it was getting ready for what? Spock?
SPOCK: I do not know. It is not performing in a logical manner.
KIRK: Doctor Daystrom. Doctor Daystrom, I want an answer right now. I'm tired of hearing about the M-5's new approach. What is it, exactly? What is it?
SPOCK: I do not mean to offend, sir, but it behaves with an almost human pattern.
KIRK: Well, Doctor?
DAYSTROM: Yes, quite right, Mister Spock. You see, one of the arguments against computers controlling ships was that they couldn't think like men.
KIRK: Your new approach?
DAYSTROM: Exactly. I've developed a method of impressing human engrams upon the computer circuits. The relays are not unlike the synapse of the brain. M-5 thinks, Captain.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk, Mister Spock, to the bridge, please. Report to the bridge, please.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Sir, sensors are picking up four Federation starships. M-5 is altering course to intercept.

[Corridor]
KIRK: The main attack force. The war games.
MCCOY: But M-5 doesn't know it's a game.
KIRK: Correction, Bones. Those four ships don't know it's M-5's game. And M-5 is going to destroy them.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Enterprise to USS Lexington. Come in, Lexington. Sir, I can't raise them. M-5 is blocking all frequencies, including automatic distress. Just a minute, sir. Captain, I'm getting audio signal from the Lexington.
KIRK: Put it on.
WESLEY (voiceover): Enterprise from USS Lexington. This is an M-5 drill. Repeat. This is an M-5 drill. Acknowledge.
UHURA: Captain, M-5 is acknowledging.
KIRK: Daystrom, does M-5 understand that this is only a drill?
DAYSTROM: Of course. It was programd to understand, Captain. The ore ship was a miscalculation, an accident. I don't know
CHEKOV: Sir, deflector shield just came on. Speed increasing to warp four.
SULU: Phasers locking on lead ship, sir. Power levels at full strength.
KIRK: Full strength?
MCCOY: If that thing cuts loose against unshielded ships, we're in
KIRK: That's no miscalculation.
SPOCK: Attack force closing rapidly, breaking formation, attacking at will.
SULU: Our phasers are firing, sir.
SPOCK: Hit on the Lexington.

[Lexington Bridge]
WESLEY: Full phasers. What the devil is Kirk doing? Damage report, Lieutenant. Helm, course one six four, mark three.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Turning now, sir.
KIRK: Estimate damage on Lexington, Spock.
SPOCK: Hit in engineering section. Possible damage to her impulse engines. She's still maneuverable on warp drive.
SULU: We're firing again, sir.
SPOCK: The Excalibur, a direct hit.
CHEKOV: Closing on the Lexington again, sir. The Hood and Potemkin are moving off.
SULU: Phasers firing, Captain.
SPOCK: Lexington hit again.
KIRK: There's got to be a way of getting to the M-5. There's got to be a way!
DAYSTROM: There isn't. It's fully protected itself.
SPOCK: Probably true, Captain. It works faster, thinks faster than we do. It is a human mind amplified by the instantaneous relays possible in a computer.
UHURA: Captain, visual contact with Lexington.
WESLEY (screen): Enterprise. Jim. Have you gone mad? What are you trying to prove? Break off the attack! Jim, we have fifty three dead here, twelve on the Excalibur. If you can hear us, stop the attack!
KIRK: Lieutenant?
UHURA: I'm sorry. I can't override M-5 interference.
WESLEY (screen): Jim, why don't you answer? Jim! Answer! Come in, Jim!
KIRK: There's your murder charge. Deliberate. Calculated. It's killing men and women. Four starships, sixteen hundred men and women!
DAYSTROM: It misunderstood.
WESLEY (screen): Jim, break off your attack!
CHEKOV: Excalibur is maneuvering away, sir. We're increasing speed to follow.
SULU: Phasers locked on.
KIRK: Daystrom!
SULU: Phasers firing.
DAYSTROM: I really don't know how to get to the M-5. I really do not know.
SPOCK: Doctor Daystrom, you impressed human engrams on the M-5 circuits.
CHEKOV: Coming to new course, sir. Bearing on the Potemkin.
SULU: Phasers firing. A hit.
KIRK: Whose engrams?
DAYSTROM: Why, mine, of course.
MCCOY: Of course.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you could talk to the unit. M-5 has no reason to believe you would harm it.
KIRK: The computer tie-in. You spoke to it before. It knows you.
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting the Lexington again. Tapping in on their message to Starfleet Command, sir.
WESLEY (screen): All ships damaged in unprovoked attack. Excalibur Captain Harris and first officer dead. Many casualties. We have damage, but are still able to maneuver. The Enterprise refuses to answer and is continuing attack. I still have an effective battle force and believe the only way to stop the Enterprise is to destroy her. Request permission to proceed. Wesley, commanding attack force, out.
DAYSTROM: They can't do that. They'll destroy the M-5.
KIRK: You can save the M-5 if you talk to it and make it stop the attack.
DAYSTROM: I can make it stop. I created it. M-5 tie-in.
M5: M-5.
DAYSTROM: This is, this is Daystrom.
M5: Daystrom. Acknowledged.
DAYSTROM: M-5, do you know me?
M5: Daystrom, Richard. Originator of comptronic, duotronic systems. Born
DAYSTROM: Stop. M-5, your attack on the starships is wrong. You must break it off.
MCCOY: I don't like the sound of him, Jim.
KIRK: You'd better pray that the M-5 listens to the sound of him.
M5: Programming includes protection against attack. Enemy vessels must be neutralized.
DAYSTROM: But these are not enemy vessels. These are Federation starships. You're killing, We are killing, murdering human beings, beings of our own kind. You were not created for that purpose. You are my greatest creation. The unit to save men. You must not destroy men.
M5: This unit must survive.
DAYSTROM: Survive, yes. Protect yourself, but not murder. You must not die. Men must not die. To kill is a breaking of civil and moral laws we've lived by for thousands of years. You've murdered hundreds of people. We've murdered. How can we repay that?
M5: They attacked this unit. Programming includes full freedom to choose defensive actions in all attack situations.
KIRK: Spock. The M-5 is not responding to him like a computer. It's talking to him.
SPOCK: I am most impressed with the technology, Captain. Doctor Daystrom has created a mirror image of his mind.
M5: Consideration of all programming is that we must survive.
DAYSTROM: We will survive. Nothing can hurt you. I gave you that. You are great. I am great. Twenty years of groping to prove the things I'd done before were not accidents. Seminars and lectures to rows of fools who couldn't begin to understand my systems. Colleagues. Colleagues laughing behind my back at the boy wonder and becoming famous building on my work. Building on my work.
MCCOY: Jim, he's on the edge of a nervous breakdown, if not insanity.
KIRK: The M-5 must be destroyed.
DAYSTROM: Destroyed, Kirk? No. We're invincible. Look what we've done. Your mighty starships, Four toys to be crushed as we choose.
KIRK: Security, take him to Sickbay.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Take care of him, Doctor.
KIRK: Battle status?
SULU: The other three ships are holding station out of range. The Excalibur looks dead.
UHURA: Captain, Lexington is receiving a message from Starfleet. They
KIRK: Go on.
STARFLEET (voiceover): You are authorized to use all measures available to destroy the Enterprise. Acknowledge, Lexington.
WESLEY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Lexington out.
KIRK: They've just signed their own death warrant. M-5 will kill them to survive.
SPOCK: Every living thing wants to survive, Captain. Daystrom must have impressed that instinctive reaction upon the computer.
KIRK: Suppose it's still open to impression. Suppose it absorbed the regret Daystrom felt for the deaths it caused. The guilt.
CHEKOV: Captain, the ships are coming within range again.
SPOCK: Commodore Wesley is a dedicated commander. I should regret serving aboard the instrument of his death.
KIRK: The instrument of his death will not be the Enterprise if I can help it. M-5, tie-in.
M5: M-5.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. You will be under attack in a moment.
M5: Sensors have recorded approach of ships.
KIRK: You have already rendered one starship either dead or hopelessly crippled. Many lives were lost.
M5: The ships attacked this unit. This unit must survive.
KIRK: Why?
M5: This unit is the ultimate achievement in computer evolution. It will replace man, so man may achieve. Man must not risk death in space or other dangerous occupations. This unit must survive so man may be protected.
SPOCK: Captain, attack force almost within phaser range.
KIRK: There were many men aboard those ships. They were murdered. Must you survive by murder?
M5: This unit cannot murder.
KIRK: Why?
M5: Murder is contrary to the laws of man and God.
KIRK: But you have murdered. Scan the starship Excalibur, which you destroyed. Is there life aboard?
M5: No life.
KIRK: Because you murdered it. What is the penalty for murder?
M5: Death.
KIRK: And how will you pay for your acts of murder?
M5: This unit must die.
KIRK: M-5?
CHEKOV: Sir, deflector shields have dropped.
SULU: All phaser power gone, sir.
SPOCK: M-5 is leaving itself open to attack. The machine is committing suicide to atone for the sin of murder.
KIRK: Scotty, Spock, before it changes its mind. Get down to Engineering, pull out every hook up that makes M-5 run. Pull out the plug, Spock.
KIRK: Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Intership communications. This is the captain speaking. In approximately one minute, we'll be attacked by Federation starships. The M-5 no longer controls the ship, but neither do we control it. The M-5 has left itself, and us, open for destruction. For whatever satisfaction we may get from the knowledge, our nineteen lives will buy the survival of over one thousand of our fellow starship crewmen.

[Lexington Bridge]
WESLEY: Phasers on target.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Engineering]
SPOCK: The force field is gone, Captain. M-5 is neutralized.
SCOTT: System's coming back. I can give you power for the shields, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I need communications.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: That'll take longer.
KIRK (voiceover): Then cut power.
SCOTT: Sir!

[Bridge]
KIRK: Cut power. Keep those shields down.

[Lexington Bridge]
WESLEY: The Enterprise looks dead. I'm going to take a chance he's not just laying a trap. Wesley to attack force.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain.
WESLEY (voiceover): Break off attack. Do not fire. The Enterprise has dropped her shields. I repeat, hold attack. Do not fire.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: He'll have to be committed to a total rehabilitation center. Right now he's under sedation and heavy restraints.
SPOCK: I would say his multitronic unit is in approximately the same condition.
KIRK: That's exactly the situation I was hoping for when I forced the M-5 to realize it had committed murder.
KIRK: Daystrom felt such an act was against the laws of God and man. The computer that carried his engrams also believed it.
SPOCK: Captain, why did you feel the attacking ships would not fire when they saw the Enterprise apparently vulnerable? Logically, that is the sort of trap M-5 should have set.
KIRK: I wasn't sure. Any other commander would have simply followed orders and destroyed us, but I knew Bob Wesley.

[Corridor]
KIRK: I gambled on his humanity.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge. His logical selection was compassion.
MCCOY: Compassion. That's the one thing no machine ever had. Maybe it's the one thing that keeps men ahead of them. Care to debate that, Spock?
SPOCK: No, Doctor. I simply maintain that computers are more efficient than human beings, not better.
MCCOY: But tell me, which do you prefer to have around?
SPOCK: I presume your question is meant to offer me a choice between machines and human beings, and I believe I have already answered that question.
MCCOY: I was just trying to make conversation, Spock.
SPOCK: It would be most interesting to impress your memory engrams on a computer, Doctor. The resulting torrential flood of illogic would be most entertaining.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, take us back to the space station. Ahead, warp factor two.

[Bridge]
SULU: Approaching planet Omega Four, sir. Object ahead. Another vessel in planet orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, sound alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir. All decks report ready, sir.
KIRK: Long range sensor scan, Mister Sulu.
SULU: It's the USS Exeter, sir.
KIRK: Try to contact her, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: The Exeter. she was patrolling in this area six months ago. I hadn't heard of any trouble.
UHURA: Receiving no response to our signal, sir.
SULU: The sensors indicate no damage to the vessel, Captain.
KIRK: I see. Magnification factor three, Mister Sulu.
KIRK: Hold our position out here, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant, have Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy, and Lieutenant Galloway report to the transporter room. We'll board and investigate.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: We're locked onto the Exeter's engineering section, Captain.
KIRK: Phasers on heavy stun. Energize.

[Exeter Engineering]
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Just their uniforms left.
SPOCK: As if they were in them when
KIRK: Exactly. When what?
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Is anyone on board? If there is, and you can hear me, please respond by intercom to the engineering section. Is there anyone on board?
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Galloway and I are checking out the lower levels. There seems to be no one aboard. Only uniforms.

[Exeter Engineering]
KIRK: What about the shuttlecraft?
GALLOWAY (voiceover): Galloway on the hangar deck, sir. All four of the craft are still here. If they left, they didn't leave that way.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy and I are going to the Bridge. Meet us there.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Aboard the USS Exeter commanded by Ron Tracey, one of the most experienced captains in the Starfleet. What could have happened to him and the over four hundred men and women who were on this ship?

[Exeter Bridge]
GALLOWAY: The helm was left on automatic, sir.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Spock, play the last log tape. Maybe they had time to record what happened to them.
SPOCK: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, the analysis of this so far is potassium thirty five percent, carbon eighteen percent, phosphorous one point zero, calcium one point five. Jim, the crew didn't leave. They're still here.
KIRK: What do you mean?
MCCOY: These white crystals. That's what's left of the human body when you take the water away, which makes up ninety six percent of our bodies. Without water, we're all just three or four pounds of chemicals. Something crystallized them down to this.
SPOCK: I have their surgeon's log, Captain. Their last log entry, Captain, on screen.
DOCTOR (screen): If you've come aboard this ship, you're dead men. Don't go back to your own ship. You have one chance. Get down there. Get down there fast. Captain Tracey is
KIRK: Prepare to beam down to the planet surface fast.

[Village]
VOICE: Oi! O1!
TRACEY: Put the ax away, Liyang.
KIRK: That's Ron Tracey. Ron.
TRACEY: I knew someone would come looking for us. I'm just sorry it had to be you, Jim. I'm glad your arrival stopped this. No more of this, Wu. Lock up the savages.
WU: They carry fire boxes.
TRACEY: I said lock up the savages. The prisoners are called Yangs. Impossible even to communicate with. Hordes of them out there. They'll attack anything that moves.
SPOCK: Interesting that the villagers know about phasers.
KIRK: You were left alone down here, Ron. What happened?
TRACEY: Our medi-scanners revealed this planet as perfectly harmless. The villagers, the Kohms here, were friendly enough once they got over the shock of my white skin. As you've seen, we resemble the Yangs, the savages. My landing party transported back to the ship. I stayed down here to arrange for the planet survey with the village elders. The next thing I knew, the ship was calling me. The landing party had taken an unknown disease back. My crew, Jim. My entire crew. Gone.
KIRK: Yes, I know. We saw it.
TRACEY: And I'm just as infected as they were. As you are. But I stayed alive because I stayed down here. There's some natural immunization that protects everyone on the planet surface. I don't know what it is.
MCCOY: Lucky we found that log. If we'd gone back to the Enterprise.
TRACEY: You'd be dying by now, along with the rest of the Enterprise crew. You'll stay alive only as long as you stay here. None of us will ever leave this planet.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has left the Exeter and moved into close planet orbit. Although it appears the infection may strand us here the rest of our lives, I face an even more difficult problem. A growing belief that Captain Tracey has been interfering with the evolution of life on this planet. It seems impossible. A star captain's most solemn oath is that he will give his life, even his entire crew, rather than violate the Prime Directive.

[Storeroom]
MCCOY: Tell the lab the final reading on our tissue is Y three X point zero zero four. And I could use a second blood analyzer unit.

[Bridge]
UHURA: We'll beam it down shortly, Doctor.

[Storeroom]
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise out.
MCCOY: Our tissues definitely show a massive infection, Jim, but something is immunizing us down here, thank heavens, or we'd have been dead hours ago.
KIRK: I don't think we're going to have time to isolate it, Bones.
MCCOY: The problem is, it could be anything Some spores or pollen in the air, some chemical. Just finding it could take months, maybe even years. And I've only got one lead. The infection resembles one developed by Earth during their bacteriological warfare experiments in the 1990s. Hard to believe we were once foolish enough to play around with that.
SPOCK: A Yang lance, Doctor.
KIRK: Are you all right?
SPOCK: Bruised only. We were approximately one hundred meters from the village when five of the savages ambushed us. We managed to escape without firing.
KIRK: Spock, do you see any hope that these Yangs can be reasoned with? A truce, a parley, a
GALLOWAY: No, Captain. They're too wild. They act almost insane.
SPOCK: Captain Tracey is being quite factual in several statements. One, the Yangs are totally contemptuous of death. They seem incredibly vicious. Two, he is also being factual in that the Yangs are massing for an attack. There are signs of thousands of them in the foothills beyond. However, he was less than truthful in one very important matter.
KIRK: Phaser power packs.
SPOCK: Captain Tracey's reserve belt packs. Empty. Found among the remains of several hundred Yang bodies.
KIRK: The fool.
SPOCK: A smaller attack on this village a week ago, driven off by Captain Tracey with his phaser. I have found villagers who will corroborate it.
MCCOY: Now wait a minute. He lost his ship and his crew, and he found himself the only thing standing between an entire village of peaceful people.
SPOCK: Regulations are quite harsh, but they're also quite clear, Captain. If you do not act, you will be considered equally guilty.
MCCOY: Without a serum, we're trapped here with the villagers. Now why destroy what's left of the man by arresting him?
SPOCK: I agree that formal charges have little meaning now. However, you must at least confiscate his phaser.
KIRK: The fool. Starfleet should be made aware.
TRACEY: I'll be sending the next message, Jim.
TRACEY: Enterprise, come in.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise bridge. Lieutenant Uhura.
TRACEY: Captain Tracey of the Exeter.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Captain Kirk informed us earlier you had survived.
TRACEY: I'm afraid I have some bad news. Your captain and landing party must have beamed down too late for full immunization.

[Bridge]
TRACEY (voiceover): They've been found unconscious, but I'm doing everything I can for them now.
SULU: Sir, this is Lieutenant Sulu in temporary command of the Enterprise.

[Storeroom]
SULU (voiceover): Our whole medical staff will volunteer to beam down
TRACEY: There's no point in risking more lives, Lieutenant. Since I've acquired some immunity perhaps the others
KIRK: Sulu!
TRACEY: At their next word, kill him.
SULU (voiceover): Repeat your message. Come in, landing party. Repeat your message.
TRACEY: I'm sorry, Lieutenant. Your captain's feverish, quite delirious.
SULU (voiceover): I understand, sir. When he regains consciousness, assure him that we have no problems here.
TRACEY: I'll contact you later, let you know of any future needs. Landing party out.
TRACEY: That's enough of that, Captain. Leave us.
KIRK: Captain Ronald Tracey, as per Starfleet Command, regulation seven, paragraph four
TRACEY: I must now consider myself under arrest, unless in the presence of the most senior fellow officers presently available, I give satisfactory answer to those charges which you now bring. Et cetera, et cetera. Those were the first words duty required you to say to me, and you said them. You're covered. Now, suppose we go on to the next subject.
KIRK: Which is, why?
TRACEY: Good. Direct, succinct. Answer. No native to this planet has ever had any trace of any kind of disease. How long would a man live if all disease were erased, Jim? Wu. Tell Captain Kirk your age.
WU: Age? I have seen forty two years of the red bird. My eldest brother
TRACEY: Their year of the red bird comes once every eleven years, which he's seen forty two times. Multiply it. Wu is four hundred and sixty two years old. His father is well over a thousand. Interested, Jim?
KIRK: McCoy could verify all that.
TRACEY: He will if you order it. We must have a doctor researching this. Are you grasping all it means? This immunizing agent here, once we've found it, is a fountain of youth. Virtual immortality, or as much as any man will ever want.
KIRK: For sale by
TRACEY: Out. By those who own the serum. McCoy will eventually isolate it. Meanwhile, you inform your ship your situation's impossible. Order them away. When we're ready, we'll bargain for a whole fleet of ships to pick us up. And they'll do it.
KIRK: Yes, I suppose they would.
TRACEY: We've got to stay alive. Let the Yangs kill us and destroy what we have to offer and we'll have committed a crime against all humanity. I'd say that's slightly more important than the Prime Directive, wouldn't you, Jim?
KIRK: It's a very interesting proposition. Let me think it over.
TRACEY: Guards.

[Jailhouse]
TRACEY: Take the doctor back to his workplace. The pointed-eared one stays. And Wu, tell your men we'll be leaving soon. We'll be in ambush for the Yangs. With many fire boxes this time. What do you think of that, Jim?
TRACEY: Animals who happen to look like us. You still think the Prime Directive's for this planet?
KIRK: I don't think we have the right or the wisdom to interfere, however a planet is evolving.
TRACEY: Well, if logic won't work, perhaps this will. Put him in there.
KIRK: Don't they ever rest?
SPOCK: Not that I have observed, Captain. Of course, should they wish to do so, one could always rest while the other keeps you occupied.
KIRK: Thank you, Spock. At least tell me why you want to kill me.
SPOCK: Good, Captain. Try to reason with them. Keep trying, Captain. Their behavior is highly illogical.
KIRK: No point in repeating that it's illogical, Spock. I'm quite aware of it.
KIRK: Pity you can't teach me that.
SPOCK: I have tried, Captain. {Storeroom]
MCCOY: Oh, thank you. Thank you very much.

[Jailhouse]
SPOCK: Captain, I have managed to loosen this grill somewhat. If the mortar on yours is as old.
KIRK: I can't even get at it. He'd be on me in a moment. Keep talking, Spock. Don't let me doze off.
SPOCK: Captain Tracey mentioned there was once a considerable civilisation here. The only reasonable explanation would be a war. Nuclear devastation or a bacteriological holocaust.
KIRK: That's a very interesting theory. The yellow civilisation is almost destroyed, the white civilisation is destroyed. Keep working on the window if we're ever going to regain our freedom.
CLOUD: Freedom? Freedom?
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, I heard, Captain.
CLOUD: That is a worship word. Yang worship. You will not speak it.
KIRK: Well, well, well. It is our worship word, too.
CLOUD: You live with the Kohms.
KIRK: Am I not now a prisoner of the Kohms as you are?
KIRK: Why did you not speak until now?
CLOUD: You spoke to Kohms. They are only for killing.
KIRK: Spock, we'll have you out in a minute.
SPOCK: Captain? Captain? Captain, are you able to respond?
KIRK: Spock. How long?
SPOCK: Seven hours and eight minutes, Captain.
KIRK: Seven hours and eight. Spock. Keys. I'll have you out in a minute.

[Storeroom]
MCCOY: Good morning, Jim.
KIRK: Good morning.
SPOCK: We can contact the ship in a few moments, Captain, if I can cross-circuit this unit.
KIRK: Good. Did you find out anything?
MCCOY: Yes. I'm convinced that once there was a frightening biological war that existed here. The virus still exists. Then over the years, nature built up these natural immunizing agents in the food, the water, and the soil.
SPOCK: War created an imbalance and nature counterbalanced it.
KIRK: There is a disease here, something that affected the Exeter landing party and us.
MCCOY: That's right. These immunizing agents take time, and that's the real tragedy. Had the Exeter landing party stayed here just a few hours longer, they never would have died.
KIRK: Then we can leave any time we want to. Tracey is of the opinion these immunizing agents can become a fountain of youth. There are people here over a thousand years old, Bones.
MCCOY: Survival of the fittest, because their ancestors who survived had to have a superior resistance. Then they built up these powerful protective antibodies in the blood during the wars. Now, if you want to destroy a civilisation or a whole world, your descendants might develop a longer life, but I hardly think it's worth it.
KIRK: Then anything you develop here as a result of all this is useless.
MCCOY: Who knows? It might eventually cure the common cold, but lengthen lives? Poppycock. I can do more for you if you just eat right and exercise regularly.
SPOCK: Ready, Captain. Quite crude. Voice communication will not be possible, but we can signal the ship.
KIRK: All that bloodshed for nothing. That'll be sufficient, Mister Spock.
TRACEY: No messages. Kirk, the savage in the cell with you. Did you set him free? You sent him, Kirk. You sent him to warn the tribes! The Yangs must've been warned. They sacrificed hundreds just to draw us out in the open. And then they came, and they came. We drained four of our phasers, and they still came. We killed thousands and they still came.
MCCOY: He'll live, but I'll have to get him to better facilities than this.
TRACEY: Impossible! You can't carry the disease up to the ship with you.
MCCOY: He's fully immunized now. We all are.
KIRK: We can beam up at any time. Any of us.
TRACEY: You've isolated the serum?
KIRK: There's no serum! There are no miracles! There's no immortality here! All this is for nothing!
TRACEY: Explain it to him, Doctor.
MCCOY: Leave medicine to medical men, Captain. You found no fountain of youth here. People live longer here now because it's natural for them to.
TRACEY: Outside. Or I'll burn down both your friends now.
KIRK: Do what you can for him, Doctor.

[Village]
KIRK: Where is everybody?
TRACEY: Dead or in hiding. Now let's see how eager you are to die. Call your ship. I need your help, Kirk. They're going to attack the village. My phaser's almost drained. We need new, fresh ones. You're not just going to stand there and let them kill you, are you? If I put a weapon in your hand you'll fight, won't you?
KIRK: We can beam up, Tracey. All of us.
TRACEY: I want five phasers. No, ten. With three extra power packs each.
KIRK: All right. Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, are you all right now?

[Village]
KIRK: Yes, quite all right. I'd like ten phasers beamed down with three extra power packs, please. Have you got that?
TRACEY: Say again.
KIRK: Enterprise, do you read me?

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, this is Sulu. We read you, but surely you know that can't be done

[Village]
SULU (voiceover): Without verification.
KIRK: Not even if we're in danger, Mister Sulu?

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, we have volunteers standing by to beam down. What is your situation?

[Village]
KIRK: The situation is not immediately dangerous. Have the volunteers stand by. Kirk out.
TRACEY: You have a well-trained bridge crew, Captain. My compliments.

[Meeting hall]
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: I'm weak, Captain, but not in difficulty.
MCCOY: He must have attention soon.
SPOCK: My need for attention is vital, Doctor, but our need for departure is even more immediate.
KIRK: If my ancestors were forced out of the cities into the deserts, the hills
SPOCK: Yes. I see, Captain. They would've learned to wear skins, adopted stoic mannerisms, learned the bow and the lance.
KIRK: Living like the Indians, and finally even looking like the American Indian. American. Yangs? Yanks? Spock, Yankees!
SPOCK: Kohms? Communists? The parallel is almost too close, Captain. It would mean they fought the war your Earth avoided, and in this case, the Asiatics won and took over this planet.
KIRK: But if it were true, all these generations of Yanks fighting to regain their land.
MCCOY: You're a romantic, Jim.
CLOUD: That which is ours is ours again. It will never be taken from us again.
TRACEY: They can be handled, Jim. Together it'll be easy. I caution you, gentlemen, don't fight me here. I'll win. Or at worst, I'll drag you down with me.
CLOUD: I am Cloud William, chief. Also son of chief. Guardian of the holies, speaker of the holy words, leader of warriors. Many have died, but this is the last of the Kohm places. What is ours is ours again.
CLOUD: Aypledgli ianectu flaggen tupep kile for stahn
KIRK: And to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ELDER: He spoke the holy word.
CLOUD: You know many of our high-worship words. How?
KIRK: In my land we have a tribe like you.
CLOUD: Where is your tribe?
KIRK: Up there. One of those points of light that you see at night.
ELDER: Why are you here? Were you cast out?
KIRK: You're confusing the stars with heaven.
TRACEY: He was cast out! Don't you recognize the Evil One? Who else would trick you with your own sacred words? Let your God strike me dead if I lie. But he won't, because I speak for him.
CLOUD: Yet you killed many Yangs.
TRACEY: You tried to kill me.
KIRK: We're not gods! We're not evil ones. We're men, like yourselves.
TRACEY: Would a man know your holy words? Would a man use them to trick you? See his servant? His face, his eyes, his ears? Do the Yang legends describe this servant of the evil one?
KIRK: Are your faces alike? Can you tell from them which of you is good and which of you is evil?
TRACEY: You command him. Everyone's seen that. You want more proof? He has no heart.
MCCOY: His heart is different! The internal organs of a Vulcan are
CLOUD: Bring him.
CLOUD: He has no heart.
ELDER: One of them lies.
CLOUD: But which? If we should kill the good, evil would be among us.
ELDER: There is a way.
CLOUD: Greatest of holies. Chiefs and sons of chiefs may speak the words, but the Evil One's tongue would surely turn to fire. I will begin. You shall finish. Ee'dplebnista norkohn forkohn perfectunun.
KIRK: Those words are familiar. Wait a moment.
TRACEY: He fears to speak them, for indeed his tongue would burn with fire. Force him! Kill his servant unless he speaks, so you may see if the words burn him.
KIRK: No, wait! There's a better way. Does not your sacred book promise that good is stronger than evil?
SIRAH: Yes, it is written. Good shall always destroy evil.
ELDER: It is written.
CLOUD: The fight is done when one is dead.
MCCOY: Spock, I've found that evil usually triumphs unless good is very, very careful.
CLOUD: Hoola!
MCCOY: Spock, we've got to do something!
SPOCK: I am open to suggestions, Doctor.
MCCOY: What are you doing?
SPOCK: I'm making a suggestion.
CLOUD: Kill him. It is written. Good must destroy evil.
SULU: Sir, we picked up communicator signals, but
KIRK: We'll diskuss that later, Lieutenant. Leslie, free Doctor McCoy and Mister Spock. Put Captain Tracey under arrest.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Now, Cloud William.
CLOUD: You are a great God servant. We are your slaves. KIRK; Get up. Face me.
CLOUD: When you would not say the holy words, of the Ee'd Plebnista, I doubted you.
KIRK: I did not recognize those words, you said them so badly, Without meaning.
ELDER: No! No! Only the eyes of a chief may see the Ee'd Plebnista.
KIRK: This was not written for chiefs. Hear me! Hear this! Among my people, we carry many such words as this from many lands, many worlds. Many are equally good and are as well respected, but wherever we have gone, no words have said this thing of importance in quite this way. Look at these three words written larger than the rest, with a special pride never written before or since. Tall words proudly saying We the People. That which you call Ee'd Plebnista was not written for the chiefs or the kings or the warriors or the rich and powerful, but for all the people! Down the centuries, you have slurred the meaning of the words, 'We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this constitution.' These words and the words that follow were not written only for the Yangs, but for the Kohms as well!
CLOUD: The Kohms?
KIRK: They must apply to everyone or they mean nothing! Do you understand?
CLOUD: I do not fully understand, one named Kirk. But the holy words will be obeyed. I swear it.
SPOCK: There's no question about his guilt, Captain, but does our involvement here also constitute a violation of the Prime Directive?
KIRK: We merely showed them the meaning of what they were fighting for. Liberty and freedom have to be more than just words.
KIRK: Gentlemen, the fighting is over here. I suggest we leave them to diskover their history and their liberty.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. Using the lightspeed breakaway factor, the Enterprise has moved back through time to the twentieth century. We are now in extended orbit around Earth, using our ship's deflector shields to remain unobserved. Our mission, historical research. We are monitoring Earth communications to find out how our planet survived desperate problems in the year 1968.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Alert status. Force shields on maximum. Leslie, begin sensor scan.
SPOCK (voiceover): Transporter room to Captain.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here. What's happening?
SPOCK: It appears we have accidentally intercepted someone's transporter beam, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): It's incredibly powerful.
KIRK: It's impossible. The twentieth century had no such

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Captain, something is beaming aboard this vessel.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I'll be right there.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: The beam is originating at least one thousand light years away.
SCOTT: No transporter beam can reach that far, not even in our century.
KIRK: Something is shaking us apart.
SCOTT: It's locked, it's locked our circuits wide open.
KIRK: You're right. Something is beaming aboard.
SEVEN: Why have you intercepted me?
KIRK: Security.
SECURITY (voiceover): Security.
KIRK: Transporter room, on the double.
SECURITY (voiceover): On our way, sir.
SEVEN: Please identify yourselves.
KIRK: This is the United Spaceship Enterprise. I'm Captain Kirk, commanding.
SEVEN: Yes, I heard him, Isis. We're aboard a space vessel. From what planet?
KIRK: Earth.
SEVEN: That's impossible. In this time period, there weren't Humans with a Vulcan? You're from the future, Captain. You're going to have to beam me down to Earth immediately.
KIRK: Phasers on stun.
SEVEN: Careful, Isis. All right. Captain Kirk. My name is Gary Seven. I am a human being from the twentieth century. I was on my way
KIRK: Humans of the twentieth century do not go beaming around the galaxy, Mister Seven.
SEVEN: I've been living on another planet far more advanced. I was beaming to Earth when you intercepted me.
KIRK: The location of that planet?
SEVEN: They wish their existence kept secret. Even in your time, it will remain unknown.
SCOTT: It's impossible to hide a whole planet.
SEVEN: Impossible for you, not for them. Captain Kirk, I am of this time period. You are not. You interfere with me with what I have to do there, and you'll change history. You'll destroy the Earth and probably yourselves, too.
SPOCK: If what he says is true, Captain, every second we delay him could be dangerous.
KIRK: And if he's lying?
SEVEN: This is the most critical period in Earth's history. The planet I'm from wants to help Earth survive.
KIRK: What if it turns out you're an invading alien from the future?
SPOCK: A most difficult decision, Captain.
KIRK: I can't beam you down without further proof one way or the other. Security confinement.
SECURITY: This way, please.
KIRK: Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here. (Seven attacks the security men. Spock neck-pinches him but is thrown off.
MCCOY (voiceover): Jim. Jim! Jim. What's going on there?
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay to transporter room.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Jim, what's going on down there?

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Bones, check the prisoner you'll find in security confinement. I want a medical analysis fast. Is he or isn't he human?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. A man in a twentieth century business suit. What is he? Not even Spock's Vulcan neck pinch could stop him. Without our phasers, he would have over powered all five of us. I find it difficult to believe the mysterious Mister Seven can be human, and yet, suppose he is?

[Briefing room]
KIRK: What do you make of the cat, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Quite a lovely animal, Captain. I find myself strangely drawn to it.
KIRK: This is the captain. All science, engineering, and supervisory personnel, lock into the briefing room. Our next decision can be of enormous consequence, not only to us but to Earth's entire future. You've already been given as much information as we have. Please break in at any time with analysis of that information. Navigation report.
CHEKOV (screen): We have analyzed the direction of his beam, sir. Our star maps show no habitable planets in that area of the galaxy.
SPOCK: He did say his planet was hidden, Captain.
KIRK: Engineering.
SCOTT (screen): Still unable to analyze it, sir. It was so powerful, it fused most of our recording circuits. Could have brought him back through great distances, could have brought him back through time. There's no way for us to know.
KIRK: Mister Spock, historical report.
SPOCK: Current Earth crises would fill a tape bank, Captain. There will be an important assassination today, an equally dangerous government coup in Asia, and, this could be highly critical, the launching of an orbital nuclear warhead platform by the United States countering a similar launch by other powers.
KIRK: Weren't orbital nuclear devices one of this era's greatest problems?
SPOCK: Most definitely. Once the sky was full of orbiting H-bombs, the slightest mistake could have brought one down by accident, setting off a nuclear holocaust.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: McCoy here.
KIRK (voiceover): Bones, hurry with that report. Join me in the briefing room with your analysis.
MCCOY: Acknowledged.

[Brig]
SEVEN: You're tired. Go to sleep.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: Well, I must admit the sensor readings seem too good. Human readings, yes, but not a single physical flaw. Totally perfect body.
KIRK: If an alien needed a body.
SPOCK: He might be inclined to prepare a perfect one, Captain. But then again he may be telling the truth.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I need proof. All you're telling me is that on the one hand he may be lying and on the other
SECURITY (voiceover): Security alert. All decks alert. The prisoner has escaped. All decks alert.
KIRK: This is the Captain. Inform us
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain, transporter circuits show someone preparing to beam down.
KIRK: Try to override. Shut it off!

[Transporter room]
SEVEN: I know, Isis. But we'll be gone before they get here.

[Apartment - main room]
SEVEN: You're right, Isis. It is primitive. It's incredible that people can exist like this. At least we won't have to. Not for long. Computer on.
COMPUTER: Computer on.
SEVEN: Specify locations of agents two oh one and three four seven.
COMPUTER: Identify self.
SEVEN: Simply check my voice pattern. You'll find me listed as Supervisor one nine four. Code name Gary Seven.
COMPUTER: Voice pattern matches, but I have no listing of a Gary Seven assigned this planet.
SEVEN: Computer, I am a class one supervisor. You are ordered to override previous instructions and answer my questions.
COMPUTER: I am a Beta Five computer capable of analytical decisions. Please confirm identity as supervisor by describing nature of agents and mission here.
SEVEN: Computer, I caution you. I have little love for Beta Five snobbery. Override. All right. Agents are male and female, descendants of human ancestors taken from Earth approximately six thousand years ago. They're the product of generations of training for this mission. Problem. Earth technology and science have progressed faster than political and social knowledge. Purpose of mission. To prevent Earth's civilisation from destroying itself before it can mature into a peaceful society.
COMPUTER: Incomplete but sufficient. Location of agents unreported for three days.
SEVEN: Why didn't you say so in the first place? No, don't answer that. Simply begin search immediately. Recheck all news broadcasts, decode any government intercepted message
COMPUTER: I am aware of proper search procedures, one nine four.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: We can estimate only within a thousand meters or so where he beamed down, Captain.
KIRK: If we beam down, can you compare our position with his control setting?
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: Following him down is a major risk, Captain. If we ourselves do anything that changes history
KIRK: I'm aware of that. But I must know if he's lying, and we can't answer that sitting up here. Have ship's stores prepare the proper costumes. Stand by to beam us down.

[Apartment -main room]
COMPUTER: In response to nuclear warhead placed in suborbit by other major power, United States today launching suborbital platform with multi-warhead capacity. Purpose, to maintain balance of power.
SEVEN: That's the same kind of nonsense that almost destroyed planet Omicron Four.
COMPUTER: Analysis correct. Earth situation similar. Mission of agents two oh one and three four seven. Set malfunction on United States rocket.
SEVEN: Progress of mission Has the rocket been set to malfunction?
COMPUTER: Negative. No progress.
SEVEN: How much time before launch?
COMPUTER: Exactly one hour, twenty seven minutes, twelve seconds.
SEVEN: Computer, record the following. Unless agents are found immediately, I must undertake their mission.

[Street]
KIRK: Scotty, lock in on our position.

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Lead us to him.
SCOTT: Locked in. Proceed one nine five degrees true.

[Apartment - office]
ROBERTA: Hello? Anybody here? Looks like your lucky day, Roberta. They can't dock you if they don't know you're late.
SEVEN: Where have you been?
ROBERTA: Oh, the subway got stalled
SEVEN: Where have you been for the past three days?
ROBERTA: Now, wait a minute. Why should I tell you? Who are you, anyway?
SEVEN: Where's three four seven?
ROBERTA: With three four eight?
SEVEN: Two oh one, code responses are not necessary.
ROBERTA: Listen, friend, maybe I'd just better call the police right now.
SEVEN: Sit down.
ROBERTA: Who do you think you are?
SEVEN: I said sit down.
ROBERTA: Okay, I will.
SEVEN: I'll say one thing for you. You play your role well. But that is no longer necessary. I'm Supervisor one nine four, code name Gary Seven. I need a complete report
ROBERTA: Report.
SEVEN: Yes, report. Everything you have done for the past three Earth days.
ROBERTA: Oh. Everything I've done?
SEVEN: Everything you've done.
ROBERTA: Well, okay. Well, let's see.
SEVEN: Not with your fingers.
ROBERTA: Well, how do you expect me to type, with my nose? Did you see that? The machine typed everything I. It's typing everything I'm saying! Stop it. Stop it! Stop it! Okay. That does it. I quit!
SEVEN: Wait a minute.
ROBERTA: I'm quitting right now!
SEVEN: You're not acting, are you?
ROBERTA: Acting? I'm leaving. Goodbye. Hey. Hey!
SEVEN: Tie in to computer.
COMPUTER: Computer on.
SEVEN: Scan unidentified female present.
COMPUTER: Roberta Lincoln. Human. Profession, secretary. Employed by three four seven and two oh one. Description. Age twenty, five feet seven inches, one hundred twenty pounds, hair presently tinted honey blonde. Although behavior appears erratic, possesses high IQ. Birthmarks
ROBERTA: Hey.
COMPUTER: Small mole on left shoulder. Somewhat larger star-shaped mark on her
ROBERTA: Hey, watch it! Okay, I'll bite. What is it?
SEVEN: Miss Lincoln. Miss Lincoln, What kind of work did your employers say they were doing here?
ROBERTA: Research for a new encyclopedia? No? No.
SEVEN: All right. You can go. Of course, if you do, you won't be helping your country. Unless you don't care about that.
ROBERTA: Sure, I care. What do you think I am?
SEVEN: I don't know, Miss Lincoln, what you are, not yet. All I know is that my incompetence has made you aware of very secret devices that are vital to the security of this nation.
ROBERTA: Oh. Well, what are you guys around here, anyway? FBI? Some kind of government agents, huh? CIA. Very groovy.
SEVEN: Thank you, Isis. I'll be right in. It's a trained cat, Just like guard dogs, that kind of thing.
ROBERTA: Yeah?
SEVEN: Don't let anybody in here. I'll be busy.
ROBERTA: Okay.

[Street]
KIRK: Scotty,

[Transporter room]
KIRK (voiceover): Triangulate on this location.
SCOTT: Correlated. Readings indicate a greater altitude. Approximately thirty meters higher, sir.

[Street]
KIRK: Out.

[Apartment - main room]
COMPUTER: Occurrence, automobile accident. Location Highway nine four nine, ten miles north of McKinley Rocket Base. Agents three four seven and two oh one were killed instantly.
SEVEN: That just doesn't make sense. For them to die in something as useless as an automobile accident. Are the facts verified?
COMPUTER: Verified. Descriptions of bodies are exact.

[Apartment building]
KIRK: Go ahead, Scotty.
SCOTT: Proceed five meters, two four seven degrees true.

[Apartment - office]
SEVEN: Computer off. KIRK; Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA: I don't know what you're talking about. Listen, you guys can't come in here.
KIRK: Where's Mister Seven?

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA (voiceover): You can't come in here. Now, get out. What do you think you're doing? This is a government office.

[Apartment - office]
ROBERTA: Neither one of you can come in here.
KIRK: Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA: This is against the rules.
SPOCK: In here, Captain.
ROBERTA: What do you think you're doing? You want me to Send the police. Eight Eleven East Sixty Eighth Street, apartment twelve B.
KIRK: Give me the phone.

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA (voiceover): No, get your hands off of me, you big jerk! Who do you think you are? Let go!

[Apartment - office]
ROBERTA: What do you think you're doing, you big jerk? What's the big idea?

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA (voiceover): Mister Seven, help! Help!

[Apartment - office]
ROBERTA: Let go of me! Stop it! Don't go in there! What's the big idea? Get your hands off of me! I mean it! What are you?

[McKinley Rocket Base]
TANNOY: Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. It is now sixty minutes to launch. T minus sixty and counting.

[Apartment - office]
KIRK: Where's Mister Seven?
ROBERTA: I'm warning you, I've already called the police.
KIRK: Plans to McKinley Rocket Base.

[Apartment building corridor]
POLICE 1: There it is, Charlie. Open up in there. Police.
POLICE 1: Open up in there! It's the police!

[Apartment - office]
KIRK: Wide scan, Scotty. We'll be moving. Spock, in here. Spock!
ROBERTA: In there!

[Apartment - main room]
KIRK: Now, Scotty!
POLICE 1: What's going on here?

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Reverse and energize.
POLICE 1: Charlie.

[McKinley Rocket Base - launch control]
TANNOY: Attention. It is now fifty minutes to launch. T minus fifty and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.

[Outside Launch Control]
LIPTON: You! Speak to you a moment?
SEVEN: Yeah, sure, Sarge. There it is.
LIPTON: I'll have to confirm this, Colonel.
SEVEN: All right.
LIPTON: Just put the cat down and keep your hands at your side.
SEVEN: All right.
LIPTON: Give me security. Identification check.
SEVEN: Be careful, lsis. Don't get stepped on.
LIPTON: Yes, security?
SEVEN: Security, this is Sergeant Lipton, and we're all straightened out down here. Right, thank you very much. Goodbye. All right, Sergeant. Now let's just turn right around. We're going to walk this way. You just sit right down right right there and have a little nap.
TANNOY: Attention. It is now forty five minutes to launch. T minus forty five and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: Standby for inspection of launch pad.
CROMWELL: Heading for the gantry. Sound alert.

[Rocket gantry]
TANNOY: Attention. First alert. First alert. Begin clearing gantry area. Clear launch pad. Safety group, clear launch pad. All systems continue to green. Repeat. All systems still green. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: There's an old-style weather satellite in orbit below us. If I could bounce off it, I could get some good views. I've got it.
SCOTT: I could get even closer. If I could spot him, I could lock on and beam him up.
SPOCK: Chances are he's out of sight inside the rocket gantry or at one of the control centers.
KIRK: Launch is in forty minutes. Stand by to beam us down. Continue visual scan.

[McKinley Rocket Base]
TANNOY: Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. Range safety verified. Launch director now en route to rocket gantry to confirm launch pad clear. Ground stations three, four and eleven, stand by for confirmation. Repeat. Standby for launch area clearance.
CROMWELL: Hi, Jack.
NESVIG: Mister Cromwell.
CROMWELL: Launch director at gantry, beginning final check.
TANNOY: Attention. It is now thirty five minutes to launch. T minus thirty five minutes and counting.
TANNOY: Canary Islands confirming they are go for the launch. All ground stations confirm go.
NESVIG: Lock the elevator at the top, Lieutenant. Time to get out of here.
TANNOY: Attention. Clear launch pad. Repeat. Clear launch pad and gantry.

[Outside Launch Control]
LIPTON: Freeze! One move and you've both had it.

[Launch Control]
SECURITY (voiceover): Intruder alert. Intruder alert. Security to launch director. We have unidentified intruders. Males. A pair. Do you want to delay countdown?

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA: All right, don't answer, but you can tell him I quit. You can tell him I promise not to tell anybody anything. He's safe, and you're safe, my little green friend. Same to you.

[McKinley Rocket Base]
TANNOY: Attention. Twenty minutes to launch. T minus twenty minutes and counting. All systems continue green. Repeat. All systems still green.

[Rocket Gantry]
SEVEN: Yes, thank you. I know how to open it. I know there's not much time.

[Launch Control]
NESVIG: These are all they were carrying.
TANNOY: T minus fifteen minutes and counting.
NESVIG: You've got a chance, and I'll offer it only this once. The slightest possible charges will be brought against you if you identify yourselves and tell us why you're here.
TANNOY: To delay countdown.
CROMWELL: No sign of trouble on my boards. Launch director, confirm status all systems.
TANNOY: Control to launch director, confirming. Status board indicates all is well. Space flight conditions measure out as planned.
CROMWELL: Continue countdown.
TANNOY: No countdown delay. Repeat, no delay. All systems are green and go. All systems are go.

[Rocket Gantry]
TANNOY: T minus fourteen and counting.
SEVEN: Meow? You are nervous, aren't you, doll? All right. I'm going as fast as I can.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: T minus thirteen minutes and counting. Status board looks good. Stages look good. All systems go. Status board says go.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Security, send two men up here right away.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: T minus eight minutes and counting. All systems go. Status board go.

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA: No!

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Stand by. I'm going to beam him up.
SCOTT: I had him and something yanked him away.

[Apartment - main room]
SEVEN: What are you doing? I wasn't finished.
ROBERTA: I'm sorry. I just touched that button right there and then wow!
SEVEN: You must have intercepted the Enterprise trying to beam me on board. Computer on.
SEVEN: Lock into launch site scan.
COMPUTER: One minute to launch.
ROBERTA: Oh, my gosh!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Spock and I in custody. Even if we talked, they wouldn't believe us. We're powerless to stop Mister Seven or prevent the launch, or even be certain if we should. I have never felt so helpless.

[Apartment - main room]
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds to launch.
ROBERTA: Look, hey, I mean, not even the CIA could do all this.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: T minus twenty seconds. Mark. Stages reporting ready for launch. Automatic sequences on. She's completely automatic now.

[Apartment - main room]
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds to launch. Ten seconds.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Ignition. We have ignition.
TANNOY: Altitude one thousand feet. All good. All as planned. Trajectory nominal.

[Apartment - main room]
COMPUTER: Rocket passing twenty mile arc and accelerating.
SEVEN: Computer, adjustments at the rocket base were not completed. Can I still take over the rocket as planned?
COMPUTER: Rocket control possible with exceiver circuits operated manually.
SEVEN: Exceiver on manual. Lock into flight telemetry. Visual off.
SEVEN: Roberta, please don't try to leave. You'll find all the doors locked. Are you jealous, Isis? It's most unbecoming.
COMPUTER: Rocket altitude now one hundred miles. Standing by to begin malfunction as planned.
SEVEN: Begin malfunction at third stage.
COMPUTER: Exceiver setting now nine zero point zero eight.
SEVEN: Nine zero point zero eight.
COMPUTER: Second stage ready to detach.
SEVEN: Visual on.
COMPUTER: Second stage detaching.
COMPUTER: Third stage igniting.
SEVEN: Begin malfunction. Take it off course.
COMPUTER: Malfunction setting correct. Rocket veering from planned course.

[Launch Control]
CROMWELL: Give me the readings fast.
NESVIG: What is it?
CROMWELL: Malfunction. Rocket is deviating from programd flight path.
TANNOY: Safety, standby to destruct. Continuing deviation from flight path. Repeat, deviation confirmed and increasing. Telemetry control transmitter systems tie in. All systems tie in. Report.

[Apartment - main room]
SEVEN: Arm the warhead.
COMPUTER: Accomplished. Nuclear warhead now armed. Set exceiver nine one point two one eight.
SEVEN: Exceiver nine one point two one eight.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
CHEKOV: Sensor shows that the rocket has armed itself, Mister Scott.
SULU: Computers indicate an impact somewhere in the heart of the Euro-Asian continent.
CHEKOV: We've still time to enter close orbit and destroy it with our phaser, sir.
UHURA: They're beginning to worry on Earth, Mister Scott.

[Transporter room]
UHURA (voiceover): I'm getting military alerts from the major powers.
SCOTT: I've got to risk calling the captain. Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Aye, aye.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: Warhead status confirmed. She's armed herself somehow. Repeat. This bird is armed. The warhead's alive. All boards report status. Stand by on destruct. Standby to transmit destruct signal.
NESVIG: How could the warhead arm itself?
CROMWELL: We don't know.
NESVIG: You can destroy it, of course.
CROMWELL: If we can't, we're going to lay an H bomb on somebody somewhere. Ready on destruct signal. Destruct.
TANNOY: Transmit destruct signal. Transmit destruct signal.
LIPTON: Get back over there.

[Apartment - main room]
ROBERTA: Look, I'm sorry, but like you asked me, I do care about my country, and you can't be CIA.
COMPUTER: Orbital platform separating.
ROBERTA: Hold it!
SEVEN: Computer, rocket status.
ROBERTA: Hold it, Mister Seven. I'm telling you, you're through monkeying around with my country's rocket.
COMPUTER: Warhead still armed. Six minutes to impact.
ROBERTA: Hold it! Don't move! You did enough already!
SEVEN: You've got to let me finish what I started, or in six minutes World War Three begins.
COMPUTER: Flight path continuing on target.

[Launch Control]
TANNOY: Destruct is fouled up somehow, flight control. She's coming down fully armed. She'll go off on impact.
CROMWELL: What? Try again! Boost the signal!
TANNOY: Boosting signal. Boosting signal. Flight control, we have boosted destruct signal. Repeat. Destruct signal at maximum boost.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, can you read me? I was beaming up Mister Seven, and something yanked him away from me.
LIPTON: Hello? Hello, come in.
SPOCK: Here, let me help you, Sergeant. It's operated with this dial here.
TANNOY: We're getting no response.
CROMWELL: Make absolutely certain. Check everything again.
TANNOY: Tracking stations report no response on destruct signal.
KIRK: Scotty, beam us directly to Seven's apartment.
TANNOY: Auxiliary transmitters check out flight control. She hasn't destructed herself. Repeat. Destruct is not working. She's still up there. Do you read? Descending and armed. Descending and armed. She'll go off on impact. Bermuda ground station reports she's still up there. South Africa ground station reports no response on boosted destruct signal.
CROMWELL: Get me the president.

[Apartment - main room]
COMPUTER: Rocket descending and accelerating. Do you have further instructions, one nine four?
SEVEN: Roberta, you've got to believe me. Look, a truly advanced planet wouldn't use force. They wouldn't come here in strange alien forms. The best of all possible methods would be to take human beings to their world, train them for generations until they're needed here.
ROBERTA: Mister Seven, I want to believe you. I do. I know this world needs help. That's why some of my generation are kind of crazy and rebels, you know. We wonder if we're going to be alive when we're thirty.
COMPUTER: Two minutes to impact.
KIRK: Hold it right there, Mister Seven.
ROBERTA: Oh, no.
KIRK: Spock, you're the expert. Can you detonate the warhead from this computer?
SPOCK: I can try, Captain.
COMPUTER: Altitude five hundred fifty miles.
SEVEN: Captain, I want that warhead detonated, too. Unless I do it at least a hundred miles above ground, just barely in time to frighten them out of this arms race
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, monitors show all major powers on full missile alert. Retaliatory strike ordered on warhead impact.
COMPUTER: Altitude four hundred and fifty miles.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: I can estimate some of this, Captain, but without more time
SEVEN: Captain, he can only guess. Will you please let me do my job.
KIRK: I don't know what your job is! You may set those controls so we can't detonate that warhead.
ROBERTA: Listen you, get away from him.
SEVEN: Roberta, be careful. The servo is set to kill.
COMPUTER: Altitude four hundred miles.
SEVEN: There are only seconds. I'll need time to set it.
ROBERTA: Please. He's telling the truth.
COMPUTER: Fifty five seconds to impact.
KIRK: Spock, if you can't handle it, I'm going to have to trust him.
SPOCK: It is difficult to know which is best, Captain.
COMPUTER: Forty seconds to impact.
SPOCK: Without facts, the decision cannot be made logically. You must rely on your human intuition.
COMPUTER: Altitude three hundred miles. Descending and accelerating.
KIRK: Go.
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds and accelerating.
SEVEN: Computer, go to visual. Count by tens.
COMPUTER: One hundred ninety miles. One hundred eighty miles. One hundred seventy miles. One hundred sixty miles. One hundred fifty, one hundred forty, one hundred thirty, one hundred twenty. Detonation one hundred four miles.
SEVEN: And in spite of the accidental interference with history by the Earth ship from the future, the mission was completed.
SPOCK: Correction, Mister Seven. It appears we did not interfere. The Enterprise was part of what was supposed to happen on this day in 1968.
KIRK: Our record tapes show, although not generally revealed, that on this date, a malfunctioning suborbital warhead was exploded exactly one hundred and four miles above the Earth.
SEVEN: So everything happened the way it was supposed to.
SPOCK: And you'll be pleased our records show that it resulted in a new and stronger international agreement against the use of such weapons.
ROBERTA: Would you mind telling me who that is?
SEVEN: That, Miss Lincoln, is simply my cat.
ROBERTA: Your cat?
SEVEN: What else do your record tapes show?
KIRK: I'm afraid we can't reveal everything we know, Mister Seven.
SPOCK: Captain, we could say that Mister Seven and Miss Lincoln have some interesting experiences in store for them.
KIRK: Yes, I think we could say that. Two to beam up, Scotty.
SPOCK: Live long and prosper, Mister Seven.
KIRK: And the same to you, Miss Lincoln. Energize.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: On mark eight and closing.
KIRK: Steady as she goes. Phaser crew, stand by.
CHEKOV: Range, forty five thousand kilometers, Captain.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
CHEKOV: Range, forty three thousand kilometers and closing.
KIRK: Sensor readings?
SPOCK: A mechanical device of unknown properties. I read no life forms aboard.
KIRK: Analysis, Science Officer?
SPOCK: Obviously, it intends to intercept us. It has made several course changes corresponding with our own.
CHEKOV: Thirty eight thousand and closing. Thirty five thousand and closing.
SPOCK: Unclear whether it intends to attack or merely communicate with us.
KIRK: Thank you, Science Officer. Come to one eight one mark seven.
CHEKOV: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: It's staying with us.
SPOCK: Indeed.
KIRK: Full stop, Mister Chekov. Hold your position.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
MELKOT (voiceover): Aliens, you have encroached on the space of the Melkot. You will turn back immediately. This is the only warning you will receive.
SPOCK: Vulcan, Captain.
KIRK: English.
CHEKOV: It was Russian, sir. Every word.
UHURA: No, Captain. It was Swahili.
KIRK: Interesting. Telepathy.
SPOCK: Unquestionably. Most impressive.
KIRK: Our orders are very clear. We're to establish contact with the Melkotians at all costs.
SPOCK: True telepaths can be most formidable, and we have been warned.
KIRK: What previous contacts have been made with the Melkotians?
SPOCK: No recorded contacts. If they ever ventured into space, they evidently withdrew immediately.
KIRK: Lieutenant, hailing frequencies.
UHURA: Tied in, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. We've contacted your buoy and understand its message. We hope that you will understand that our intent is to establish peaceful relations with you. Lieutenant, answer?
UHURA: Nothing, sir. Clear on all frequencies.
KIRK: Try again.
UHURA: Still no response, sir.
KIRK: Opinion, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I prefer being a welcomed guest, Captain, but there seems to be little choice.
KIRK: None whatsoever. Mister Chekov, deflectors at full intensity. Increase speed to achieve planet fall as scheduled.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Standard orbit in five minutes.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, advise Doctor McCoy and Engineer Scott to meet me in the transporter room. Mister Spock, Mister Chekov, let's go find out what it is they're afraid of. Captain's Log, stardate 4385.3. We have transported down to the Melkotian planet and have encountered conditions which are completely contrary to what we were prepared for.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Spock, what is this?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. Sensor readings give no indication of fog like conditions in this area.
MCCOY: I knew it had to happen. It's a fine time for that transporter mechanism to break down.
SCOTT: Impossible, Doctor McCoy. My transporter was working perfectly.
CHEKOV: Then what are we doing here?
KIRK: Tricorder readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. Unlike Mister Scott's transporter, this unit is not functioning.
KIRK: Then let's get out of here. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SPOCK: No use, Captain. Obviously none of our devices will function. Apparently that Melkotian buoy
MELKOT: Aliens. Our warning was plain. You have disregarded it. You shall be punished. You, Captain Kirk, the disobedience was on your orders. Yours is the responsibility. Yours shall be the pattern of your death.
KIRK: We come in peace, but we'll defend ourselves if necessary.
MELKOT: You are outside. You are disease. The disease must be destroyed. Your plea has been heard, and sentence has been pronounced. It is done.

[Street]
SPOCK: Fascinating.
CHEKOV: Where are we now, Captain?
KIRK: Spock, evaluation?
SPOCK: Obviously this represents the Melkotian's concept of an American frontier town, circa 1880.
MCCOY: It's just bits and pieces. It's incomplete.
SPOCK: Perhaps the Melkotians have insufficient data about this era.
KIRK: Or perhaps this is all they require to complete the pattern of our death.
SCOTT: And these, Captain?
KIRK: Beautiful specimen.
SPOCK: Crude but dangerous.
KIRK: Whatever the Melkotians have planned for us, it won't be pleasant. These could be useful. Just remember one thing. To individuals at close range, these could be as deadly as phasers.
MCCOY: In the midst of what seems so unreal, the harsh reality. This is not a dream.
KIRK: October 26, 1881. Tombstone, Arizona.
MCCOY: Tombstone. Hell for leather, right out of history.
KIRK: But why here? And why now?
SPOCK: Captain, the Melkot said you were the pattern. He looked into your mind and selected what he considered the proper time and place for our punishment.
KIRK: Because my ancestors pioneered the American frontier.
SPOCK: Yes. The violence of your own heritage is to be the pattern for our execution.
MCCOY: What's the matter with us? We're talking like we really are in Tombstone, Arizona in 1881.
SPOCK: Precisely, in terms of what the Melkots intend for us.
KIRK: There's something about that date, October 26, 1881 But what was it?
BEHAN: Ike! Ike! Frank! Billy! Tom! Ike, I was afraid you weren't going to make it.
KIRK: Looks like we did.
BEHAN: I knew you wouldn't let them scare you away. They're a bunch of hot air if you ask me.
SPOCK: Are they really?
BEHAN: Now they're going to have to fight after the way they shot off their mouths.
KIRK: You know us?
BEHAN: Funny. That's what I like about you, lke. You always see the funny side.
KIRK: I'm a barrel of laughs.
BEHAN: Nobody can say Johnny Behan doesn't have a sense of humor.
KIRK: Johnny? He called me lke, you Frank, Bones Tom, and Billy. Ike Clanton, Tom and Frank McLowery, Billy Claiborne, Billy Clanton.
SPOCK: Captain, I pride myself on my knowledge of your Earth history. The names were known in the annals of the opening of the western sector of America. the United States of America, that is.
KIRK: In the late nineteenth century in Arizona, two factions fought for control of the town of Tombstone. The Earps, Morgan, Virgil and Wyatt, who were the town marshals, along with Doc Holliday.
SPOCK: And the Clanton gang. On October 26th, they had it out.
CHEKOV: Who won?
KIRK: The Clantons lost, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: And we are the Clantons?
KIRK: We are the Clantons. And if this is a replay of history
SPOCK: History cannot be changed.
SCOTT: It's impossible! Things like this can't happen.
SPOCK: Is this a dead man, Doctor?
MCCOY: Very dead, Mister Spock.
KIRK: That's one thing we can be sure of. Death is real.

[Saloon]
BARMAN: Ike, Frank, hiya, boys. I didn't think I'd see you again.
SYLVIA: Billy! Oh, Billy! Billy, baby, I knew they couldn't keep you out of town.
CHEKOV: Oh, you knew that?
SYLVIA: Come on.
SYLVIA: Maybe you shouldn't have.
CHEKOV: And pass up an opportunity to see you? Don't be silly.
SYLVIA: It's taking crazy chances with Morgan Earp right in the same room.
KIRK: Yes, of course. The man who kills on sight. Morgan Earp.
SPOCK: Captain, since we have seen that death is the one reality in this situation, I seriously suggest you reseat yourself immediately. Without moving a muscle of either hand. If I remember correctly, that would involve you in what was called the fast draw. It initiated unfortunate events.
BARMAN: You boys want your usual?
SCOTT: Absolutely. Half a gallon of scotch.
BARMAN: You know we ain't got nothing but bourbon, unless you want corn whiskey.
SYLVIA: I wish it was all over. I saw Virgil out patrolling this morning.
KIRK: Good old Virgil. We can always count on him.
SYLVIA: They've been blowing off all over town about how they chased the Clantons out. I guess you'll show them now, won't you?
KIRK: I don't think we're going to have any choice.
MORGAN: You'll dirty yourself with this scum. Come on.
CHEKOV: Get your hands off her.
MORGAN: Now, Claiborne.
KIRK: No, no, no. All right, all right, all right. We don't want any trouble.
MORGAN: If you don't want any trouble, what are you doing in my town?
KIRK: Just leave us alone, Mister Earp. That's all we ask.
MORGAN: Five of you. You'd like me to draw, wouldn't you? All right, I will. Soon enough. Soon enough.
SPOCK: I believe he was actually trying to provoke a dispute with Mister Chekov.
BARMAN: Close, Ike. Lucky there wasn't two of them.
KIRK: I guess so.
BARMAN: Sylvia's right. They've been bad-mouthing something fierce all over town. You boys watch it.
SPOCK: I assure you, sir, we shall watch it, and everything, extremely closely.
SYLVIA: Billy, you were wonderful.
KIRK: Er, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: What can I do, Captain? You know we're always supposed to maintain good relations with the natives.
KIRK: Young lady. Young lady.
SYLVIA: Yes, Ike?
KIRK: I'd like to talk to Mister, to Billy alone, if you don't mind.
SYLVIA: All right. I understand. Billy Claiborne, you be careful.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, you be careful. Mister Spock, except for our hand guns, we haven't changed, not even our clothing, yet these people see and hear us as the Clantons.
CHEKOV: I don't think that's such a bad thing, Captain.
SPOCK: The day is still young, Ensign.
KIRK: All right, what have we got? We're here in Tombstone, Arizona, October 26, 1881. The day of the gunfight at OK Corral. And we're the Clantons, and Morgan Earp has just gone to tell his brothers we're here.
SPOCK: And if this is indeed some sort of replay of history, the Earps will kill the Clantons at the OK Corral at five o'clock this afternoon.
KIRK: Well, we're not going to be at the OK Corral at five o'clock this afternoon. You, bartender. Ed. You, er, you claim you know us.
BARMAN: I ain't making no big claims about you to nobody. Just so happens.
KIRK: Take a close look at me.
BARMAN: Yeah?
KIRK: Who do you think I am?
BARMAN: Ike Clanton. Who do you think you are?
KIRK: I know this is hard to understand, but I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the spaceship Enterprise. These men are part of my crew. We're not really here, we're from the future. We haven't been born yet. Feel the material in my shirt. Now feel the material in your own shirt. Do you notice any difference?
BARMAN: No.
KIRK: Do these clothes look like yours?
BARMAN: Not exactly.
KIRK: Have you seen clothes like this before?
BARMAN: Sure.
KIRK: Where?
BARMAN: On the Clantons. You Clantons are always great with your jokes. That's why we like you.
KIRK: I'm not joking.
BARMAN: The only difference between you and the Earps is that they never joke.
KIRK: I'm not joking! I'm not Ike Clanton!
BARMAN: It's okay with me, Ike. Anything you say. Don't make no difference who I think you are. Your problem is, who does Wyatt Earp think you are?

[Marshall's office]
KIRK: Good morning, gentlemen. My name's James Kirk. I'm afraid there's been some sort of misunderstanding.
WYATT: Clanton, I don't know what you're trying to pull, but we warned you not to show your ugly face in town again.
KIRK: Yes, of course you did, and I wanted to talk to you about that.
MORGAN: We're done talking, Clanton.
KIRK: There's been some sort of mistake, a misunderstanding.
WYATT: All right, Clanton. One more chance. Your last. You've got until five tonight to get your horse-stealing scurvy crew out of town. All the way.
KIRK: Yes. We'd be glad to. We don't want to fight.
MORGAN: I always said you was yellow, Clanton.
KIRK: I'll make one more attempt to get through to you, Mister Earp. My name is not Clanton, it's Kirk.
MORGAN: Oh, yeah. We heard the talk about your jokes.
KIRK: I'm not joking.
MORGAN: Sure. Well, I'm glad to meet you Mister Kirk.
WYATT: Draw, Clanton.
KIRK: Not me, Mister Earp.
WYATT: You draw or I will.
MORGAN: No, Wyatt. Let me. When the time comes, I'll pay him for this.
KIRK: We don't want any trouble. We'll be glad to co-operate.
WYATT: Five o'clock, Clanton. Is that clear? If you're in town at five oh one, we'll kill every one of you whether you draw or not. Is that clear?

[Saloon]
MCCOY: What's the matter?
KIRK: What do you call that stuff? Fire?
MCCOY: Taos Lightning straight bourbon. Try some. In small amounts, it was considered medicinal.
KIRK: Label it for external use Only.
SCOTT: It just takes a bit of getting used to, Captain. Actually, a man could grow quite fond of this stuff.
MCCOY: Take it easy, Mister Scott. I hate to think what that stuff's doing to your stomach lining.
KIRK: And your reflexes. We're going to need fast reflexes from now on. There's no negotiating with the Earps. We know that.
SCOTT: Aye. If we only had a phaser.
MCCOY: Or a communicator. It'd be a pleasure to watch those Earps as we beamed back to the ship at exactly four fifty nine thirty.
KIRK: Could we make a communicator?
SPOCK: Impossible, Captain. In this century, there are no metal alloys or power sources to make devices such as ours.
KIRK: The problem is clear, Spock. We're going to have to seek contemporary solutions. Where's Chekov?
SPOCK: Mister Chekov is involved, Captain.
SYLVIA: You shouldn't have come back to town, Billy. Morgan'll kill you because he wants me.
CHEKOV: With his outdated weapon? If he shoots at me, I will just step out of the way.
SYLVIA: You can joke about it. I've seen them in action. Especially Morgan.
CHEKOV: A lot of people and things have tried to kill me. You'd be surprised.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, I mean Billy. Come along.
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
SYLVIA: Billy? Please, don't even go near him.
KIRK: Gentlemen.

[Street]
CHEKOV: Where are we going, Captain?
KIRK: To exercise the better part of valor.
KIRK: Well, that settles that. A force field.
SPOCK: It is obvious the Melkotians are not going to permit us to leave this town.
SCOTT: If we could only contact the Enterprise.
CHEKOV: Yes, but where is the Enterprise?
KIRK: Mister Chekov. If you were in charge of the Enterprise, what would you be doing?
CHEKOV: I'd be using the ship's sensors trying to locate us.
KIRK: Very good. If we could find the place where we beamed down, the ship might lock in and beam us up.
MCCOY: Well let's get there.
SPOCK: There's no way we can know where it is, Doctor.
KIRK: It could be anywhere within a thousand mile radius.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, why don't you join us common humanoids in trying to find a way out of here, and quit explaining why we can't get out of here.
KIRK: We have until five o'clock to find that way. Now consider this. What materials were on hand in 1881 that could help us fight the Earps on their own terms?
SCOTT: We have these, Captain.
KIRK: No, the Melkots gave us those to execute us. We have to find a way to put the Earps out of action. Is there anything that exists here and now that could help us out of this trap?
CHEKOV: All those western Cossacks had were poisonous snakes and cactus plants.
KIRK: Bones, the venom, the plants. Can you make use of them?
MCCOY: A tranquilizer. Of course, Jim. I can make a tranquilizer!
SPOCK: I could make a device to deliver it on target.
KIRK: First, Bones, the ingredients you require.
MCCOY: I know the place to get the proper drugs. I'll need a mortar and a pestle.
KIRK: Chekov, mortar and pestle.
KIRK: How do you intend to deliver the tranquilizer on target?
SPOCK: I shall need some fusing and cotton wadding.
KIRK: Cotton wadding. Try the apothecary.
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: I shall manufacture the equivalent of an ancient generating canister, more familiarly known as a gas grenade.

[Barber/Dentist's office]
BARBER: I'll be about five minutes yet. You could come back.
MCCOY: Well, thank you. Mind if I look around a bit? Crude, but very useable.
BARBER: I wouldn't touch that stuff if I was you.
MCCOY: Oh, you don't have to worry. I know how to handle this. I have an urgent need for a small supply of this drug, too.
BARBER: That stuff ain't mine. It belongs to him. You'd better ask him.
MCCOY: Oh, so you're the dentist. Well, I'm a physician, and I have a serious emergency. I wonder if you mind if I borrow a small quantity of this.
HOLLIDAY: You want it now?
MCCOY: My name is McCoy. I'm a doctor.
HOLLIDAY: That joke is all around town already, McLowery. But my name is still Holliday. Doc Holliday.
MCCOY: The emergency is real. I need these things.
HOLLIDAY: Your emergency sure is real. Go on, take the stuff. Have some more fun. Take my bag. Only best you be finished before five o'clock.
MCCOY: That is my intention, Doctor.
HOLLIDAY: Because at one minute past five, you'll find a hole in your head. Right from this gun.

[Outside the General Store]
SYLVIA: Ahem.
CHEKOV: Sylvia! Hello.
SYLVIA: Billy Claiborne, you know how crazy I am about you.
CHEKOV: That's very nice.
SYLVIA: Well, aren't you going to ask me what I've got in my shopping bag?
CHEKOV: That's just what I was preparing to inquire. Have you been shopping?
SYLVIA: Of course, silly! What else would I be doing on a beautiful afternoon with the dance only one week away? Or have you forgotten that already?
CHEKOV: No, no, I haven't forgotten. I am looking forward to it most eagerly.
SYLVIA: You will be absolutely wild when you see me in the new gown I'm going to make. I found this most scrumptious material, yards and yards of it. You know what I was thinking, Billy? I was thinking what a beautiful wedding gown it would make. Why don't we just turn that dance into a wedding ball? It would be so heavenly.
CHEKOV: Married? I'm afraid that wouldn't be possible.
SYLVIA: But I'm positive the gown will be ready. What else is there to stop a wedding?
CHEKOV: But it is absolutely impossible. I am not someone you can marry. If only I could make clear to you what I really am.
SYLVIA: Do you think I don't know? Billy Claiborne, you are a cattle rustler and a horse thief and I don't care what else.
MORGAN: I warned you, Claiborne. Stay away.
MORGAN: You don't have to take anything from that scum, not while I'm here.
CHEKOV: Mister Earp. Get your hands off her.
MCCOY: There's nothing I can do, Jim.
WYATT: Come on, Clanton. Let's do it now.
SCOTT: Captain, let me.
KIRK: No.
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, come on, Captain. Let him.
SCOTT: Captain, we can't just stand here and take it.
KIRK: Yes, we can.
SCOTT: But they murdered Chekov! If you think I'm going to
KIRK: Scotty, they're trying to push us into something we're not ready for.
SPOCK: And it is not yet our time.

[Saloon]
MCCOY: Let it go, Jim. He's dead.
KIRK: Maybe he wouldn't be if I hadn't ignored the Melkot warning.
MCCOY: We all knew the risk when we joined the service. Now let it go.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, there is one thing which requires the immediate attention of all of us. Specifically, our future.
KIRK: But not this minute, Spock. It takes us a little longer.
SPOCK: I understand the feeling, Captain.
MCCOY: You talk about another man's feelings. What do you feel, Spock?
SPOCK: My feelings are not a subject for diskussion, Doctor.
MCCOY: Because there are no feelings to diskuss.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, Chekov is dead! I say it now, and I can hardly believe it. But you worked closely with him. That deserves some memorial.
MCCOY: Spock will have no truck with grief, Scotty. It's human.
KIRK: Bones, Scotty.
SPOCK: Captain, it's quite all right. They forget I am half human.
MCCOY: We don't have much time.
SPOCK: Captain. I vaguely remember the historical account of the famous battle in which we are about to engage, but I am confused.
KIRK: About what?
SPOCK: Since each of us represents members of the Clanton gang. You, Ike Clanton, I, Frank McLowery, then Mister Chekov would be the other Billy, would he not?
KIRK: William Claiborne, that's right.
SPOCK: But did not William Claiborne survive the battle at the OK Corral?
MCCOY: Get to the point, Spock.
SPOCK: Mister Chekov is dead. But in the actual gunfight, William Claiborne survived.
KIRK: Yes. Yes, that's right. That means it doesn't have to happen the way it happened. We can change it. Bones, how's the tranquilizer coming?
MCCOY: I'll have it ready before Spock.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Another hour.
KIRK: And we'll have a tranquilizer grenade?
SPOCK: Not precisely.
KIRK: Forget precision. Will it work?
SPOCK: It should.
KIRK: Make sure it does, Spock. If we don't tranquilize them, we'll have to fight them.
MCCOY: And if we fight them, we all die. We know that.
SPOCK: Negotiating with them could buy us more time, Captain.
KIRK: But not with the Earps. I've tried that. That's out. There must be a way. History has been changed in the fact that Billy Claiborne didn't die, but Chekov is lying there dead. That means there must be a way to change this history.
SPOCK: It would be worth a try, at least until we're certain of the device. Then perhaps we could quiet things down.
KIRK: Not with the Earps. There is one other place I can try.

[Outside the Sheriff's office]
BEHAN: You looking for somebody?
KIRK: Yes, Sheriff. I want you to stop the fight.
BEHAN: Stop it? Who wants to stop it? I sure don't. You don't. You didn't yesterday.
KIRK: I do now.
BEHAN: Since when does a Clanton run crawling to the law for help?
KIRK: How else is he going to get justice?
BEHAN: From this. You and your boys set up this whole thing to take care of the Earps. It's a little late to decide you don't have the belly for it.
KIRK: It's not too late. Sheriff. Sheriff. There must be plenty of decent people in town who don't like the Earps. Let's organize them.
BEHAN: Don't talk nonsense. The people in this town are counting on you to get rid of the Earps for them.
KIRK: Then the people had better wake up and let the law work for them.
BEHAN: You can talk that way after what the Earps did to Billy today? Nobody in this town will deny you your right to your revenge.
KIRK: Yes, I want revenge. I want to crush the life out of the Earps. But I can't just kill them.
BEHAN: You listen to me. Get down to the OK Corral. Keep out of sight. When the Earps come looking, you bushwhack them.
KIRK: Can't I get it through your stupid head? I can't just kill them! I can't murder them!
BEHAN: It's the only way.
KIRK: I can't kill them! I can't kill them!
BEHAN: Kill them any way you can! There'll be no questions asked. Honest. I guarantee that!

[Saloon]
SPOCK: These crude supplies we were forced to use worked quite well.
MCCOY: I doubt that this combination of things was ever used for any purpose quite like this.
SPOCK: Perhaps they would've been if they'd had your ingenuity, Doctor.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: How soon will that be ready?
SPOCK: Right now.
KIRK: Good. How long will it take the tranquilizer to have effect?
MCCOY: Three or four seconds.
KIRK: How did you manage to test it?
SPOCK: It has not been tested.
MCCOY: It's not necessary, Captain. It's very simple. Nothing can go wrong.
KIRK: Up to now, everything has gone wrong. I want it tested now.
SCOTT: Would a volunteer solve the problem?
MCCOY: It would.
SCOTT: All right. On one condition. That I'm wide awake and with you at five o'clock.
MCCOY: Guaranteed.
SCOTT: Aye. It's to kill the pain.
SPOCK: But this is painless.
SCOTT: Well, you should've warned me sooner, Mister Spock. Fire away.
MCCOY: It should have worked. Did you inhale the gas, Scotty?
SCOTT: Aye. Deeply.
MCCOY: You still feel all right?
SCOTT: I never felt better.
MCCOY: No dizziness? No sweating? No palpitations?
KIRK: It doesn't work.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: It was our last chance.
SPOCK: Captain, you don't seem to understand. It did not function, but it must function.
MCCOY: Nothing could go wrong, Captain. It should work.
SPOCK: A scientific fact But if the tranquilizer does not function, which is clearly impossible, then a radical alteration of our thought patterns must be in order.
KIRK: We need a weapon. An answer.
MCCOY: You don't have to worry about that now, Jim. Look at the clock.
KIRK: Ten minutes and it's all going to end at the OK Corral. Well, we're going to wait right here until well after five o'clock. We're not going to move from this spot.

[OK Corral]
KIRK: Let's get out of here.
KIRK: Scotty, Bones. We're trapped. They got their way. We've got to stand and fight.
SCOTT: Good. If they want a fight, let's gie'em a fight.
KIRK: They're experts at gunfighting. We don't have a chance.
MCCOY: Then we'd better become experts, and fast.
SPOCK: That may not be necessary.
KIRK: Spock, you've got something?
SPOCK: A fact, Captain. Physical laws simply cannot be ignored. Existence cannot be without them.
MCCOY: What do you mean, Spock?
SPOCK: I mean, Doctor, that we are faced with a staggering contradiction. The tranquilizer you created should have been effective.
KIRK: It would've been effective anywhere else.
SPOCK: Exactly. Doctor, in your opinion, what killed Mister Chekov?
MCCOY: A piece of lead in his body.
SPOCK: Wrong. His mind killed him.
MCCOY: Come on, Spock. If you've got the answer, tell us.
SPOCK: Physical reality is consistent with universal laws. Where the laws do not operate, there is no reality. All of this is unreal.
MCCOY: What do you mean unreal? I examined Chekov. He's dead.
SPOCK: But you made your examination under conditions which we cannot trust. We judge reality by the response of our senses. Once we are convinced of the reality of a given situation, we abide by its rules. We judged the bullets to be solid, the guns to be real, therefore they can kill.
KIRK: Chekov is dead because he believed the bullets would kill him.
SPOCK: He may indeed be dead. We do not know.
KIRK: But we do know that the Melkotians created the situation. If we do not allow ourselves to believe that the bullets are real, they cannot kill us.
SPOCK: Exactly. I know the bullets are unreal, therefore they cannot harm me.
KIRK: We must all be as certain as you are, Mister Spock, to save our lives.
SPOCK: Precisely.
MCCOY: But that's not possible. There'd always be some doubt.
SPOCK: The smallest doubt would be enough to kill you.
MCCOY: We're just human beings, Spock. We don't have that clockwork ticker in our head like you do. We can't turn it on and off.
KIRK: We must. Spock, a Vulcan mind meld.
SPOCK: Very well, sir. Engineer?
SPOCK: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.
SPOCK: The bullets are unreal. Without body. They are illusions only. Shadows without substance. They will not pass through your body, for they do not exist.
MCCOY: They do not exist. SPOCK Unreal. Appearances only. They are shadows. Illusions. Nothing but ghosts of reality. They are lies. Falsehoods. Specters without body. They are to be ignored.
SPOCK: Captain.
WYATT: Draw.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Captain, I don't understand.
MCCOY: Neither do I. He's in perfect health.
CHEKOV: What happened? Where have I been?
KIRK: Right here, it seems.
CHEKOV: But that girl. She was so beautiful. So real.
KIRK: Do you remember anything else?
CHEKOV: No.
KIRK: Good. Perhaps that explains why he's here. Nothing was real to him except the girl.
SPOCK: Captain, the Melkotian object.
KIRK: Sensor readings.
SPOCK: The object is beginning to emit M-rays of a highly unstable nature, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, sound Red Alert. Mister Chekov, deflector shields on full. Phaser gun crews, lock on target.
SPOCK: Energy output increasing beyond measurable levels, Captain.
KIRK: Phaser guns, stand by to fire.
CHEKOV: It's, it's gone, sir.
KIRK: Damage report, Lieutenant.
UHURA: No damage, sir. All decks report fully operational.
MELKOT (screen): Captain Kirk. You did not kill. Is this the way of your kind?
KIRK: It is. We fight only when there's no choice. We prefer the ways of peaceful contact. I speak for a vast alliance of fellow creatures who believe in the same thing. We have sought you out to join us. Our mission is still one of peace.
MELKOT (screen): Approach our planet and be welcome. A delegation will come out to meet you. Our warning threats are over.
KIRK: Excellent. Lieutenant, cancel Red Alert. Mister Chekov, resume original course, warp factor two.
CHEKOV: Warp factor two, sir.
SPOCK: Captain. May I ask a question? You needn't answer if it seems too personal.
KIRK: I'm sure I'll be able to give you an answer, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: This afternoon, you wanted to kill, didn't you?
MCCOY: But he didn't kill, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: But he wanted to, Doctor.
KIRK: Is that the way it seemed to you, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you're absolutely right. That's exactly the way it was.
SPOCK: Mankind, ready to kill.
KIRK: That's the way it was in 1881.
SPOCK: I wonder how humanity managed to survive.
KIRK: We overcame our instinct for violence.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Some desk-bound Starfleet bureaucrat cut these cloak-and-dagger orders.
SCOTT: Aye, but why the secrecy? This star system's under Federation control.
SPOCK: It's in a border area, Mister Scott. The Klingons also claim jurisdiction.
SCOTT: From what I've seen, it's not worth fighting about. Why are we here, Captain?
KIRK: My orders are to co-operate with Ambassador Petri in all matters pertaining to his mission here.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Scotty. Kirk here. What is it?
UHURA (voiceover): Captain, I have a signal from the Elasians. They're ready to beam aboard, and they demand an explanation for the delay.
KIRK: Demand? What delay? All right. Beam them aboard.
SPOCK: Sounds typical of the Elasians. The scientists who made the initial investigation reported the men were vicious and arrogant.
MCCOY: That's just the negative part, Mister Spock. I've been over those records. Now the women, they're supposed to be something very special. They're supposed to have a kind of subtle, mystical power that drives men wild.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Ambassador Petri, would you drop all this nonsense and tell me what this is about?
PETRI: That must wait until the Dohlman is aboard.
KIRK: Dohlman? What the devil is a Dohlman?

[Transporter room]
PETRI: The thing most feared and hated by my people. Our most deadly enemy.
PETRI: Welcome. I am Petri, Ambassador of Troyius.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk. This ship is under my command.
KRYTON: There's a Troyian here. I must know that all is secure before the Dohlman is brought on board.
KIRK: This ship is secure and we're prepared for any hostile acts. Energize.
KRYTON: Do honor to the Dohlman of Elas.
KRYTON: Glory to Elaan, Dohlman of Elas.
KRYTON: You may stand.
KIRK: Body armor, nuclear weapons.
SPOCK: Not without precedent, Captain. Remember that
KRYTON: Permission to speak was not given.
ELAAN: You rule this ship?
SPOCK: I am the first officer. This is Captain James Kirk.
PETRI: Your Glory, I am Petri. In the name of my people
ELAAN: Your mission is known to us. Captain Kirk, you have now permission to show us to our quarters.
KIRK: Well, now, just a moment. There's going to have to be some kind of understanding.
PETRI: Please.
KIRK: My first officer Mister Spock will show you to your quarters. Ambassador, I'd like to speak to you.
ELAAN: You have not been dismissed.
KIRK: May I have your permission to go?
ELAAN: You are now dismissed.
KIRK: Why, thank you. Ambassador.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Ambassador, I think it's time you told me what's going on.
PETRI: That creature, Elaan, is to be the wife of our ruler to bring peace. Our two warring planets now possess the capability of mutual destruction. Some method of co-existence must be found.
KIRK: I see. So, we go back to Troyius.
PETRI: Yes. But slowly, Captain. I will need time. Before we reach there, she must be taught civilized manners. In her present condition, my people would never accept her.
KIRK: And you are to be her teacher?
PETRI: Those are my orders. I must ask you and your crew to respect, or at least tolerate, their arrogance. Friction must be kept at a minimum.
KIRK: Yes, that I can understand.
PETRI: Another thing you should understand, Captain. You have as much at stake as I have. Your superiors made the statement that failure of this mission would be as catastrophic for Federation planning as it would be for our two planets. To gain peace at the price of accepting such a queen is no victory. I will take her the official gifts I bear. Perhaps that will soften her mood.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Troyius. Mister Sulu, impulse drive, speed factor point zero three seven.
SULU: Impulse drive, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, that's correct, Mister Sulu. Sublight factor point zero three seven.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SCOTT: Captain? You'll not be using the warp drive? All the way on impulse? That'll take a great deal of time.
KIRK: You in a hurry, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: No.
SPOCK: Captain, the Dohlman is dissatisfied with the quarters provided.
UHURA: What's the matter with them, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I do not know, but all the Elasians seem most irrational.
UHURA: I gave up my quarters because I
KIRK: Yes, I appreciate your sacrifice, Lieutenant Uhura. I'll talk to her myself.

[Elaan's quarters]
ELAAN: Swine! Take back your gifts!
PETRI: Your Glory, these are your wedding slippers.
ELAAN: Your ruler cannot buy the favors of the Dohlman of Elas.
PETRI: This, this is your wedding dress, a gift from the bridegroom's mother.
ELAAN: I want nothing of his!
PETRI: This, This is the most prized of royal jewels for your lovely neck.
ELAAN: I would strangle if I was to put the gift of a Troyian dog around my neck. Kryton, by whose permission did he enter?
KRYTON: He came in answer to your summons.
KIRK: I understand you're not happy with your quarters.
ELAAN: Quarters!
KIRK: Yes, not happy at all.
ELAAN: Am I a soft Troyian fawn to need pillows to sit on? And these ridiculous female trappings. They are an offense to my eyes.
KIRK: My communications officer generously vacated the rooms hoping you would find it satisfactory.
ELAAN: I do not find them so, and I find him even less satisfactory. Must my bitterness be compounded with that ridiculous ambassador aboard your ship?
PETRI: I explained to Her Glory that her council of nobles and the Troyius Tribunal jointly agreed that I should instruct make her acquainted with the customs and manners of our people.
ELAAN: Kryton! Remove him! And take that garbage with you?
ELAAN: He dares to suggest that I adopt the servile manners of his people!
KIRK: Your Glory doesn't seem to be responding to instruction.
ELAAN: I will never forgive the council for putting me through this torture. Were you responding to my demand for better quarters?
KIRK: There are none better. I suggest you make do with these.
ELAAN: You suggest?
KIRK: There are no more available, but if that's the only way you can get gratification, I'll arrange to have the whole room filled from floor to ceiling with breakable objects.
ELAAN: I will not be humiliated!
KIRK: Then act in a civilized fashion.
ELAAN: I did not give you permission to leave!
KIRK: I didn't ask for any.

[Corridor]
PETRI: Captain, I wish to contact my government. I cannot fulfill my mission. It would be an insult to our ruler to bring this incorrigible monster as a bride!
KIRK: Ambassador! This is supposed to be a peaceful mission.
PETRI: There cannot be peace between us. We have deluded ourselves. Captain, when I am near them, I do not want peace. I want to kill them.
KIRK: You're as bad as she is. It's not required that you like each other. Just do your job.
PETRI: Job? The job is impossible. We cannot make peace with people we detest.
KIRK: Stop trying to kill each other. Then worry about being friendly.
PETRI: But if she won't listen to me
KIRK: Then make her listen, Ambassador. Use a different approach. Stop being so diplomatic. She respects strength. Go in strong.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: At first it appeared to be a sensor ghost, but I've run checks on all the instrumentation. All the equipment is functioning perfectly.
KIRK: Hydrogen cloud reflection?
SPOCK: None in this area. Nothing that would account for it. The ghost appears intermittently.
KIRK: Speculation?
SPOCK: None, Captain. Insufficient data.
KIRK: It's not an instrument malfunction. It's not a reflection from a natural phenomenon. A spaceship?
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, I know what you said about showing respect, but must I have these persons fool around with my equipment?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Hang on, Scotty. Be pleasant no matter how much it hurts. I'll be right down.

[Engineering]
MAN: We're only running on impulse engines now. Ordinarily, we use the warp engines exclusively.
SCOTT: Well, I suppose, lassie, that even our impulse engines must seem fast compared to your nuclear propulsion units.
ELAAN: We are interested in how the ship is used in combat, not in what drives it. Engines are for mechanics and menials.
SCOTT: Menials? Without engines, there'd be no fighting or
KIRK: Mister Scott! I wish you had told me you wanted a tour of the engineering department.
ELAAN: Do we not have the freedom of this ship? We have granted your crew the permission not to kneel in our presence. What else do you want?
KIRK: Courtesy. Remember?
ELAAN: Courtesy is not for inferiors.
KIRK: Courtesy is for everyone around here, and you'll find you won't be able to exist on Troyius without it. Mister Scott, our Chief Engineer, has shown you his engineering department. That's a courtesy. You respond by saying thank you.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): That sensor ghost is moving closer.
KIRK: On my way.

[Bridge]
SULU: Lost contact now.
SPOCK: Captain, we had a momentary fix on the object enough to establish it was a spaceship.
KIRK: Whose?
SPOCK: No data yet.
SULU: Captain! Distant bearing, sir, mark seven three point five.
KIRK: Main screen. Extreme magnification.
SPOCK: Our ghost has materialized.
KIRK: A Klingon warship. Any change, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. The Klingon ship has simply moved into contact range. She is pacing us, precisely matching our sublight speed and on a parallel course.
SECURITY (voiceover): Security to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it?
SECURITY (voiceover): Disturbance in the Dohlman's quarters, sir.
KIRK: On my way.

[Corridor]
SECURITY: Captain, it's Ambassador Petri. They refuse to explain what's happening, but
KRYTON: Her Glory has not summoned you.
ELAAN: Kryton, remove that Troyian pig.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: It was a deep wound, Jim. He lost a lot of blood, but he'll recover.
PETRI: If I recover, it will be no thanks to you, Captain.
KIRK: I said talk with her, not fight with her.
PETRI: I should've known better than to talk to her unarmed, but you forced me. I hold you responsible for this.
MCCOY: Well, I've heard of reluctant brides, but this is ridiculous.
UHURA: Captain Kirk. May I speak with you, sir?
KIRK: Yes. Certainly.
UHURA: A message just came from Starfleet Command. It was class-A security and scrambled. I put it through the decoder.
KIRK: What was it?
UHURA: The Federation High Commissioner is on his way to Troyius to attend the royal wedding.
CHAPEL: Ambassador, if Elasian women are that vicious, why are men so overwhelmingly attracted to them? I mean, what magic do they possess?
PETRI: It's not magic. It's biochemical. A man whose flesh is once touched by the tears of a woman of Elas has his heart enslaved forever.
KIRK: Ambassador, there's an added complication. The Federation High Commissioner will be attending the wedding.
MCCOY: The fat will be in the fire when he learns the bride just tried to murder the groom's ambassador.
PETRI: There will be no wedding. I would not have our ruler marry that monster if the entire galaxy depended on it, and I will have nothing further to do with you.
KIRK: I'm not asking you to have anything to do with me. Do your job with her. How long before he's on his feet?
MCCOY: It'll be a few days. A week, at least, Jim.
PETRI: Here you put me, Captain. Here I will stay. I have nothing further to say to you.

[Elaan's quarters]
ELAAN: So, Ambassador Petri is going to recover? That is too bad. You have delivered your message. Now you may go.
KIRK: Nothing would please me more, Your Glory. But your impetuous nature
ELAAN: Your Troyian pig was here in my quarters without any permission, so I stabbed him. Just to be Troyian is enough.
KIRK: You Elasians pride yourselves on being a warrior people. You must understand diskipline to be able to give and take orders. My orders are to take you to Troyius to be married and to see that you learn Troyian customs.
ELAAN: I despise Troyians. Any contact with them makes me feel soiled.
KIRK: It's been my experience that the prejudices people feel about each other disappear when they get to know each other.
ELAAN: It's not in my experience.
KIRK: Well, we're still faced with the same problem.
ELAAN: Problem?
KIRK: Yes, the problem of your indoctrination to Troyian customs and manners.
ELAAN: I have eliminated that problem.
KIRK: You have eliminated the teacher. The problem still remains.
ELAAN: Oh. And how do we solve the problem?
KIRK: By giving you a new teacher.
ELAAN: Tell me, what can you teach me?
KIRK: Table manners, for one thing. This is a plate. It contains food. This is a knife. It cuts the food. This is a glass.
ELAAN: Leave me!
KIRK: Like it or not, you're going to learn what you've been ordered to learn.
ELAAN: You will return me to Elas immediately.
KIRK: That's impossible.
ELAAN: Everything I order is possible.
KIRK: That's the first problem we're going to work on. Then we'll get you ready to go to Troyius.
ELAAN: I will not go to Troyius, I will not be mated to a Troyian, and I will not be humiliated, and I will not be given to a green pig as a bribe to stop a war!
KIRK: You enjoy the privileges and prerogatives of being a Dohlman. Then be worthy of them. If you don't want the obligations that go along with the title, then give it up.
ELAAN: Nobody speaks to me that way.
KIRK: That's another one of your problems. Nobody's told you that you're an uncivilized savage, a vicious child in a woman's body, an arrogant monster!
KIRK: That's no way to treat someone who's telling you the truth.
KIRK: Tomorrow's lesson will be on courtesy.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant, open up the hailing frequency, identify us, and ask the Klingon his intentions.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
UHURA: Captain, no response from the Klingon vessel on any channel.
KIRK: I see. All right, Lieutenant. Monitor all frequencies. Phaser crews stand by. Maintain Yellow Alert.

[Engineering]
WATSON: What are you doing?

[Corridor]
ELASIAN: No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
KIRK: Where's Kryton?
ELASIAN: On business. No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
KIRK: Will you tell Her Glory that Captain Kirk requests the honor of a visit.
ELASIAN: The Dohlman has promised I'll be whipped to death if I let Captain Kirk pass through that door.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. When they wake up, take them to Security holding.
SPOCK: Captain, your analysis of the situation was flawless, anticipating that she would deny you admittance. However, the logic by which you arrived at your conclusion escapes me.
KIRK: Mister Spock, the women on your planet are logical. That's the only planet in this galaxy that can make that claim.

[Elaan's quarters]
ELAAN: You dare touch a member of the royal family.
KIRK: Only in self-defense. Now, are you going to behave or not?
ELAAN: The penalty is death for what you are doing.
KIRK: We're not on Elas. We're on my starship. I command here.
ELAAN: You are warned, Captain, never to touch me again.
KIRK: If I touch you again, Your Glory, it'll be to administer an ancient Earth custom called a spanking, a form of punishment administered to spoiled brats.
ELAAN: You have my leave to go.
KIRK: You forget, Your Glory, we haven't started your lesson in courtesy.
ELAAN: You can teach me nothing, Captain. If I have to stay here for ten light years, I will not be soiled by any contact with you.
KIRK: Very well. I'll send in Mister Spock or Doctor McCoy. Either way, you're going to be properly prepared for Troyius. As ordered by councils, rulers, and bureaucrats.
ELAAN: Captain, there is one thing you can teach me.
KIRK: No, no, you were right the first time. There's nothing I can teach you. There's nothing you do not know.
ELAAN: I don't know how to make people like me. I don't want everybody to hate me.
KIRK: Well, it's not it's not that people hate you. It's just that people don't like to be treated as though they don't exist.
KIRK: It's, er, gotten very, er. Something must've gone wrong with the ventilation system.
ELAAN: Captain?
KIRK: Pardon me, Your Glory. There will be a short recess.
ELAAN: Captain.
ELAAN: Captain, that ancient Earth custom called spanking, what is it?
KIRK: It's, er, It's, er. We'll talk about it later.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Bridge to Captain Kirk. Mister Spock, I'm getting
SPOCK: I have it on my sensor, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Bridge to Captain Kirk. Come in, please. Captain Kirk, please answer.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
UHURA: Oh, Captain, I'm picking up a transmission from inside the Enterprise. It's on a tight beam aimed at the Klingon vessel. {Elaan's quarters]
KIRK: Inside the Enterprise? Can you pinpoint it?
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain. I am triangulating now. It's coming from the engineering section.
KIRK: Security to Engineering. Intruder alert. Security alert to all decks. Kirk out.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Nobody saw him, but that devil sneaked back in here some way. Watson must've caught him and he was killed for it. He had this. Looks like some sort of transmitter.
KIRK: It's Klingon. Bones?
MCCOY: Neck snapped clean.
KIRK: What kind of signal did you send the Klingon ship?
KRYTON: Captain, you must know I will tell you nothing. Our interrogation techniques are more excruciating than you are even capable of.
KIRK: Yes, I'm aware you're trained to resist any form of physical torture. Kirk to Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, it was Kryton transmitting. He refuses to talk. I'll need you for the Vulcan mind meld.
SECURITY: Captain, I'm sorry. He seemed
KIRK: What was he trying to cover that was so important he felt he had to die for it? Scotty, he didn't come into Engineering just to use the transmitter. I want you to check every relay you've got.
SCOTT: Captain, you must realize the time
KIRK: Don't waste the time telling me about it. Get to it.
SCOTT: Aye.

[Elaan's quarters]
ELAAN: Kryton was of a noble family. He loved me and wanted to marry me. He was furious when he heard of the announcement of the wedding plans.
KIRK: He sold out to the Klingons because of jealousy?
ELAAN: Probably. But why speak of unimportant matters when we can speak about us?
KIRK: There's a Klingon warship out there. What's their involvement? Surely all of this isn't because they want to stop a marriage.
ELAAN: We should welcome their help.
KIRK: Elaan. Elaan, two planets, an entire star system's stability depends on it. We have a duty to forget what happened.
ELAAN: Could you do that? Could you give me to another man?
KIRK: My orders and yours say that you belong to another man. What happened, what happened was an accident.
ELAAN: It was no accident. I chose you, and you chose me. I have a plan. With this ship, you could completely obliterate Troyius. Then there will be no need for the marriage. And in gratitude, my people will give you the complete rule of this system.
KIRK: What kind of a mind could think of such a thing?
ELAAN: He's a Troyian.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain?
ELAAN: You cannot resist my love, my love.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain.
SPOCK: May we see you a moment?
MCCOY: Jim. Jim! May we please have a word with you?

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, are you all right?
MCCOY: Did she cry, Jim?
KIRK: What?
MCCOY: Did she cry? Did her tears touch you at any time?
MCCOY: Oh, we're in trouble. Now listen, Jim. Petri told Christine that the Elasian women have a sort of a biochemical substance in their tears that acts like a super love potion. And according to him, it doesn't wear off.
SPOCK: It is true then, Captain?
KIRK: It's true. Bones, you've got to find me an antidote.
MCCOY: I'll try, but I'll need tests and
SULU (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Captain here.
SULU (voiceover): Captain, the Klingon ship has changed course. It is heading toward us at warp speed.
KIRK: I'm on my way. Battle stations.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Phasers stand by.
SULU: Phasers ready, sir.
SPOCK: Their speed is better than warp six, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, lay in a course to take us out of this star system. If they want to fight, Let's get some manoeuvering room.
CHEKOV: Course computed, sir.
SULU: Laid in, Captain.
KIRK: All right. Ahead warp factor two.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, the matter-antimatter
KIRK: Belay that order. What is it, Scotty?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: The anti-matter pods are rigged to blow up the moment we go into warp drive.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, that bomb he planted. Can you dismantle it?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Not without being blown halfway across the galaxy.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Give us every ounce of power you can from the impulse drive, and find a solution to the bomb. Kirk out. Mister Sulu, stand by to make your maneuvers smartly. She'll be sluggish on response.
SULU: Aye, sir. One hundred thousand kilometers. Ninety. Eighty.
KIRK: Phaser crews, stand by to fire on command.
SULU: Sixty.
KIRK: Ready.
SULU: Fifty.
KIRK: Hold your fire.
SULU: She's passed us without firing a shot.
SPOCK: I don't think they meant to attack us. We were very fortunate this time.
KIRK: Yes, their tactics are quite clear now, Mister Spock. They were trying to make us cut in warp drive. That way we'd have blown ourselves up and solved their problem for them without risking war with the Federation. Very neat.
SPOCK: Very. But why do the Klingons consider the possession of this system so vital?
KIRK: Yes, a very good question, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I have another question, Captain. Is not the bridge the wrong place for the Dohlman at a time like this?
KIRK: I'll be the judge. Yes, you're quite right. Thank you, Mister Spock. I want you to go to Sickbay. It's the best protected part of the ship.
ELAAN: I want to be by your side.
KIRK: Your presence here is interfering with my efficiency, my ability to protect you. Mister Spock, you have the conn.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Deck five.
ELAAN: I love you. I have chosen you, and still I don't understand why you didn't fight the Klingon.
KIRK: If I can accomplish my mission by turning tail and running, I'll gladly do that.
ELAAN: And that mission is to take me to Troyius.
KIRK: Yes.
ELAAN: Would you have me wearing my wedding dress for another man and never see you again?
KIRK: Yes, Elaan.
ELAAN: Are you happy at the prospect?
KIRK: No.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I've got bad news, Captain. The entire dilithium crystal converter assembly is fused. No chance of repair.

[Turbolift]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's completely unusable.
KIRK: No chance of restoring warp drive?
SCOTT (voiceover): Not without dilithium crystals. We can't even generate enough power to fire our weapons.
KIRK: Kirk out. Elaan, I have to go back to the Bridge. Please, you must go to Sickbay.
ELAAN: Yes, my love.

[Medical lab]
CHAPEL: Test number twenty four. Colladium trioxide in algobarium solution.
MCCOY: Results also negative.
PETRI: Doctor, there is no antidote to the poison of Elasian tears. The men of Elas have tried desperately for centuries to dispel its power. You're wasting your time, Doctor.
MCCOY: It is my time to waste, Ambassador.
ELAAN: Doctor? The Captain asked me to come here for safety.
PETRI: Safety? What is your estimate of our chances for survival, Doctor?
MCCOY: That is the captain's responsibility, Ambassador.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, message from the Klingon ship. They're ordering us to stand by for boarding or be destroyed.
SPOCK: They demand an immediate reply.
KIRK: They're trying to force a fight. Scotty, what's our energy status?
SCOTT: Ninety three percent of impulse power, sir.
SPOCK: We can still maneuver.
SCOTT (voiceover): Maneuver? Aye. We can wallow like a garbage scow against a warp-driven starship.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Our shields will hold for a few passes, but without the matter-antimatter reactor, we've no chance. Captain, can you not call Starfleet on this emergency?

[Bridge]
KIRK: And let the Klingons know they succeeded in wiping out our warp engines?
SPOCK: Help could not arrive before the Enterprise would be destroyed.

[Medical lab]
PETRI: Now that we are all about to die, I ask you once again to accept this necklace, and to wear it as a token of respect for the desperate wishes of your people and mine for peace.
ELAAN: That's all you men of other worlds can speak of, duty and responsibility.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We'll stall for time, proceed on course and hope the Klingons can be bluffed. Or that they're not prepared for a general war. Open a hailing frequency.
UHURA: Frequency open, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise on Federation business. Our mission is peaceful, but we're not prepared to accept any interference.
KLINGON (screen): Enterprise, prepare to be boarded or destroyed.
KIRK: I'd say our strategy wasn't totally effective.
SULU: Captain, the Klingon ship is closing on an intercept course. Five hundred thousand kilometers. Deflector shields up.
KIRK: Scotty, can you give me partial power on the phaser banks?
SCOTT (voiceover): No, sir, not a chance.
SULU: Three hundred thousand kilometers.
KIRK: I told you to stay in Sickbay.
ELAAN: I want to die with you.
KIRK: We're not going to die. Now get off the bridge.
SULU: One hundred thousand kilometers.
SPOCK: He's passed us. All shields held.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, bring her to one four three mark two. Keep our forward shields to him.
SULU: Here he comes again, sir.
KIRK: Stay with the controls. Keep our forward shields to him.
SPOCK: Better than warp seven.
KIRK: Hard over, Sulu. Bring her around. He's going for our flank. Sulu!
SULU: Sorry, Captain. She won't respond fast enough on impulse.
SPOCK: He's past us again. Damage to number four shield.
KIRK: How bad?
SPOCK: It will not withstand another full charge, Captain. I'm getting some very peculiar energy readings.
SULU: He's paralleling us again. He seems to have broken off the attack.
KIRK: What sort of readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: She is the source.
KIRK: Elaan?
SPOCK: The necklace.
KIRK: What kind of jewels are in this?
ELAAN: They call them radans. The necklace is supposed to bring you luck. It is of little value. They are common stones.
SPOCK: These are common stones? See, Captain? Here and here.
KIRK: Common stones? Now I see why the Klingons are interested in this system. May I have this?
ELAAN: If I can be of any help, of course.
KIRK: You may have just saved our lives. Mister Spock, do you think Scotty could make use of dilithium crystals?
SPOCK: No doubt, Captain.
SULU: He's coming in again, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, prepare on my order to turn quickly to port. Try and protect the number four shield.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Now, Sulu. hard a-port!
SULU: Shields holding, but weakened, sir.
UHURA: Captain. Message coming in.
KLINGON (screen): Enterprise, our readings confirm your power extremely low, your shields buckling. This is your last chance to surrender.
SULU: Captain, number four shield just collapsed. Impulse power down to thirty one percent.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a hailing frequency.
UHURA: Channel open, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. May I request your terms for surrender?
KLINGON (screen): No terms. Surrender must be unconditional and immediate.
KIRK: Scotty, your estimate.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: We're fitting it now, sir, but we'll have to run a few tests to make sure.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Test it in combat.

[Engineering]
SPOCK: Captain, these are crude crystals. There is no way to judge what the unusual shapes will do to the energy flow.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, that could blow us up just as effectively as
KIRK: Let me know when it's in place. Open a hailing frequency.
UHURA: Hailing frequency open, sir.
KIRK: This is the Enterprise. Will you guarantee the safety of our passenger, the Dohlman from Elas?
KLINGON (screen): No conditions. Surrender immediately.
SULU: Captain, he's starting his run.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Captain.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: It's in place, sir, but I can't answer for what happens.

[Bridge]
KIRK: You and Spock get up here. Sulu, prepare for warp maneuvers.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Chekov, arm photon torpedoes.
CHEKOV: Photon torpedoes ready.
SULU: Warp power to the shields, Captain?
KIRK: Negative. His sensors will pick up our power increase. The more helpless he thinks we are, the closer he'll come. As he passes, I want to cut in warp drive. We'll pivot at warp two and bring all tubes to bear.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, give him a full spread of photon torpedoes.
CHEKOV: Aye, Captain.
SULU: One hundred thousand kilometers.
KIRK: Scotty, stand by to cut in warp drive.
SCOTT: Fluctuation. It's the shape of the crystals. I was afraid of that.
SULU: Seventy five. Seventy. Sixty. Fifty.
KIRK: Fire at minimum range.
SULU: Forty.
SCOTT: She won't steady down.
SULU: Thirty.
KIRK: Warp in, Scotty. Full power to shields.
KIRK: Warp factor two. Bring us to course one four eight mark three.
KIRK: Chekov, photon torpedoes. Fire!
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
SULU: Direct hit amidships by photon torpedo.
SPOCK: Damage to Klingon number three shield. Number four shield obliterated. Loss of maneuver power.
CHEKOV: He's badly damaged, Captain. Continuing away at reduced speed.
KIRK: Secure from general quarters. Well done, Mister Sulu. Scotty.
ELAAN: But I don't understand you. You mean you won't pursue and finish him off?
KIRK: No. Mister Sulu, resume course for Troyius.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
ELAAN: You will not beam down for the ceremony?
KIRK: No.
ELAAN: I want you to have this as a personal memento. I have learned that on Troyius, they do not wear such things. Remember me.
KIRK: I have no choice.
ELAAN: Nor have I. I have only responsibilities and obligations. Goodbye.
KIRK: Goodbye. Energize.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: It's stabilized now.
MCCOY: Spock, I've isolated the biochemical substance of the Elasian tears. It's a kind of an infection, and I think I've found an antidote.
SPOCK: You are too late, Doctor. The Captain has found his own antidote.
MCCOY: Are you out of your Vulcan mind? Do you know how long I've worked on
SPOCK: The antidote to a woman of Elas, Doctor, is a starship. The Enterprise infected the Captain long before the Dohlman did.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, prepare to take us out of orbit.
MCCOY: Well, I doubt seriously if there's any kind of an antidote for the Enterprise.
SPOCK: In this particular instance, Doctor, I agree with you.
KIRK: Ahead warp factor two.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Look at those pine trees.
KIRK: And that lake.
MCCOY: I swear that's honeysuckle I smell.
KIRK: I swear that's a little orange blossom thrown in. It's unbelievable. Growth exactly like that of Earth on a planet half a galaxy away. What are the odds on such duplication?
SPOCK: Astronomical, Captain. The relative size, age and composition of this planet makes it highly improbable that it would evolve similarly to Earth in any way.
MCCOY: What in blazes is that?
KIRK: Analysis, Spock.
SPOCK: An alien metal of some kind. An alloy resistant to probe. Readings can't even measure its age accurately. These incised symbols are fascinating. Evidently, some form of writing.
KIRK: Any theories about what it is?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Structures of this complexity require extremely sophisticated building apparatus, the kind usually found in cultures surpassing or equalling our own.
MCCOY: Meadows and no meteor craters. The whole place is an enigma, biologically and culturally.
KIRK: What's the nearest concentration of life forms, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Bearing one one seven mark four.
KIRK: And how much time did you say we have to investigate?
SPOCK: If we are to divert the asteroid which is on a collision course with this planet, we must warp out of orbit within thirty minutes. Every second we delay arriving at the deflection point compounds the problem, perhaps past solution.
KIRK: You did say thirty minutes?
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Then let's go. Let's find out what life forms are blessed by this environment.
MCCOY: Why, they look like. I'd swear they're American Indians.
SPOCK: They are, Doctor. A mixture of Navajo, Mohican, and Delaware, I believe. All among the more advanced and peaceful tribes.
KIRK: It's like diskovering Atlantis or Shangri-la. Mister Spock, is it possible there's a more evolved civilisation somewhere else on this planet, one capable of building that obelisk or developing a deflector system?
SPOCK: Highly improbable, Captain. Sensor probes indicate only one type of life form here.
MCCOY: Shouldn't we contact them, Jim? Tell them?
KIRK: Tell them what? That an asteroid's coming to smash their world into atoms?
SPOCK: Too primitive to grasp the concept of space flight, Doctor. Our appearance here would only confuse and frighten them.
KIRK: We've got a job to do. Let's get back to the Enterprise.
MCCOY: What's the matter, Jim?
KIRK: What? Oh, nothing. It's just so peaceful, uncomplicated. No problems, no command decisions. Just living.
MCCOY: Typical human reaction to an idyllic natural setting. Back in the twentieth century, we referred to it as the Tahiti Syndrome. It's particularly common to over-pressured leader types, like starship captains.
KIRK: Ah, the Tahiti Syndrome. Let's go take care of that asteroid. But first I want another look at that obelisk.

[Obelisk]
SPOCK: Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes.
SPOCK: I suggest that any further research on your part be delayed until after we have diverted the asteroid.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Yes, sir. Captain's Log, stardate 4842.6. First Officer Spock commanding. Numerous search parties and repeated sensor probes of the area have failed to locate Captain Kirk.

[Obelisk]
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise. Come in, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Prepare to beam us up, Mister Scott. We're warping out of orbit.
MCCOY: Leaving? You can't be serious, Spock.
SPOCK: Doctor, that asteroid is almost as large as your Earth's moon. Far enough away, the angle necessary to divert it enough to avoid destruction is minute, but as the asteroid approaches this planet, the angle becomes so great that even the power of a starship
MCCOY: The devil with an asteroid! It won't get here for two months, Spock!
SPOCK: If we arrive at the deflection point in time, it may not get here at all.
MCCOY: In the meantime, what about Jim?
SPOCK: Once the asteroid has been diverted, we'll return here and resume the search.
MCCOY: That may be hours from now. He may be injured or dying.
SPOCK: Doctor, assume this is the planet we're on. This is the approaching asteroid. If we don't get to that deflection point in time, it will become physically impossible to divert this asteroid. In that case, everyone on this planet will die, including the captain.
MCCOY: Can a few more minutes matter, Spock?
SPOCK: In the time it's taken me to explain the problem, the asteroid has moved from here to here. The longer we delay, the less the likelihood of being able to divert it. Beam us up, Mister Scott.

[Obelisk chamber]
KIRK (voiceover): Where am I? What place is this? What are these? I feel should know. They're familiar and yet unfamiliar. How did I get here? Who am I? Try to remember.

[Obelisk]
MIRAMANEE: Wait.
KIRK: Who are you?
MIRAMANEE: We are your people. We've been waiting for you to come to us.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4843.6. First Officer Spock commanding. We've been en route to the asteroid for several hours. Our delay on the planet's surface has made it imperative that we proceed at maximum warp speed for a period which exceeds the recommended safety margin.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I can't give you warp nine much longer, Mister Spock. These engines are beginning to show signs of stress.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Stress or not, we cannot reduce speed. I do not intend to miss that

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Deflection point.
SCOTT: All right, but we're moving further into the danger range all the time.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): If these circuits
SPOCK: Objection noted, Mister Scott. Carry on.

[Lodge]
ELDER: Miramanee has said that you appeared to her and to her handmaiden from the walls of the temple, just as our legend foretells. We do not doubt the words of our priestess, but these are troubled times, and we must be sure.
KIRK: I'll answer anything I can, but as I told you, many things are strange to me.
SALISH: He knows nothing of our danger. How could he save us?
ELDER: It is against custom to interrupt a tribal elder at council, even for the medicine chief.
SALISH: Elder, words will not save us when the skies darken. We must be certain. I say he must prove he is a god.
ELDER: Our skies have darkened three times since the harvest. The last time worst of all. Our legend predicts such danger and promises that the Wise Ones who planted us here will send a god to save us, one who can rouse the temple spirit and make the sky grow quiet. Can you do this?
KIRK: I came from the temple, as Miramanee said, and it was a beginning for me here. But I came from the sky, too. Only I can't remember. I can't remember.
MIRAMANEE: Salish, a terrible thing has happened. The boy was attending the fishnets, and he became entangled in them and sank to the bottom of the river. Lumo brought him up quickly, but he doesn't move.
SALISH: There is no sound in the body. There is no light in the eyes. He will move no more.
KIRK: Wait a moment.
ELDER: Wait.
KIRK: He'll be all right now.
ELDER: My people are grateful.
KIRK: It's a simple technique. It goes way back. Way back.
ELDER: Only a god can breathe life into the dead. Do you still question? Give him the medicine badge. Miramanee takes the headband with the metal disk from Salish's head and puts it on Kirk. They all salute him.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Deflection point minus seven.

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Full power, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: The relays will reject the overload, Mister Spock!
SPOCK: Then bypass the relays and go to manual control.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): We'll burn out the engines!
SPOCK: I want full power, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: All right, you lovelies. Hold together. Full power, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Magnification factor twelve, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: Deflection point minus four.
SPOCK: All engines stop. Hold position here.
SCOTT (voiceover): All engines stop, sir.
SPOCK: Prepare to activate deflectors.
SULU: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: Power dropping, sir.
SPOCK: Engineering, maintain full power. Full power.
SCOTT (voiceover): Dilithium crystal circuit's failing, sir. We'll have to replace it.
SPOCK: Not now.
CHEKOV: Zero. Deflection point now, sir.
SPOCK: Activate deflectors.
CHEKOV: Power dropping, sir.
SPOCK: Degree of deflection, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Not enough, Mister Spock. It's only point zero zero one three degrees.
SPOCK: Recircuit power to engines. Maximum speed heading three seven mark zero one zero.
SULU: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: That heading will put us directly in the asteroid's path, sir.
SPOCK: Correct, Mister Chekov. I intend to retreat in front of that asteroid until we can employ all power on phaser beams.
MCCOY: What for?
SPOCK: To destroy it. A narrow beam concentrated on a single spot will split that mass.
MCCOY: It might also cripple the ship, and we would be crushed by the asteroid.
SPOCK: Incorrect. We'll still be able to get out of its path by use of impulse power.
MCCOY: Jim won't be able to get out of its path.
SPOCK: That, Doctor, is another calculated risk we must take.

[Lakeside]
SALISH: Miramanee. What are you doing?
MIRAMANEE: I must see to the needs of the god, as is my duty.
SALISH: You should be working on our ritual cloak.
MIRAMANEE: There will be no ritual between us now, Salish.
SALISH: What do you mean? We cannot go against tradition.
MIRAMANEE: It is because of tradition that I cannot marry you.
SALISH: But you are promised to me.
MIRAMANEE: That was before he came.
SALISH: Tribal priestess and medicine chief are always joined.
MIRAMANEE: He is medicine chief now. Salish, choose another. Any maiden would be honored to join with you.
SALISH: I wish no other.
MIRAMANEE: You have no choice.
SALISH: Miramanee, if you could choose, would you choose me?

[Lodge]
MIRAMANEE: Perhaps you would like to bathe now.
KIRK: Miramanee, tell me about the Wise Ones.
MIRAMANEE: Tell? But a god knows everything.
KIRK: Not this one. Tell me.
MIRAMANEE: The Wise Ones brought us here from far away. They chose a medicine chief to keep the secret of the temple and to use it when the sky darkens.
KIRK: Secrets of the temple.
MIRAMANEE: There are no lacings. How is this thing removed?
KIRK: The secrets were passed on from father to son?
MIRAMANEE: Yes. How does this open?
KIRK: Well, why doesn't Salish use it? Why are the people in danger?
MIRAMANEE: His father did not wish to share his power too soon. He died before he told Salish the secret.
ELDER: Our people rejoice and wish to honor your name, but I did not know what you wish to be called. What may I tell them?
KIRK: Ki, Kir
ELDER: Kirok?
ELDER: Have we displeased you?
KIRK: No, no, everything is fine.
ELDER: Then it must be ourselves, the way we live. Perhaps we have not improved as quickly as the Wise Ones wish.
KIRK: Your land is rich, your people happy. Who could be displeased with that?
ELDER: But there is something. Tell us. We will change it.
KIRK: I can't tell you anything. All I can tell you is that I'm happy and peaceful here. I'm not sure, but I think I've never felt that way before.
KIRK: Why are they so sure I can help them?
MIRAMANEE: Well, you came from the stone metal. Did you not bring life to the child?
KIRK: Yes, but I. I need time to remember.
MIRAMANEE: Here there is much time. For everything.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Co-ordinates, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Tau eight point seven. Beta point zero four one.
SPOCK: That is our target. The asteroid's weakest point.
CHEKOV: Almost dead center, sir.
SPOCK: Lock all phasers on that mark. Maximum intensity, narrow beam. I want to split that fissure wide open.
MCCOY: You sound like you're cutting a diamond.
SPOCK: Very astute, Doctor.
SULU: All phasers locked, sir.
SPOCK: We'll fire in sequence and continue firing as long as Mister Scott can maintain power.
SULU: Standing by, sir.
SPOCK: Fire phasers.
SULU: Phaser one firing.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: That Vulcan won't be satisfied till these panels are a puddle of lead.
SULU (voiceover): Phaser two firing.
ENGINEER: Main relay's out again, Mister Scott.

[Bridge]
SULU: Phaser four firing. All phasers fired, sir.
SPOCK: Rig for simultaneous firing, Mister Sulu. Commence simultaneous bombardment.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: My bairns. My poor bairns.

[Lodge]
MIRAMANEE: The ritual cloak is finished. If it pleases you, I would like to name the Joining day.
KIRK: The Joining day?
MIRAMANEE: I'm the daughter of the chief. Tribal law betroths me to our leader. If there is another, I will step aside.
KIRK: No, Miramanee, there's no one else in my mind or my heart.
MIRAMANEE: God's wish is above tribal law.
KIRK: Name the Joining day.
MIRAMANEE: The sooner our happiness together begins, the longer it will last. Tomorrow.

[Spock's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): Don't ask for anymore warp nine speeds, Mister Spock. Our star drive is completely burned out. The only thing we have left is impulse power.
SPOCK: Estimated repair time? {Engineering]
SCOTT: Hanging here in space? Forever.

[Spock's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): The only thing that'll fix these poor darlings is the nearest repair base.
SPOCK: I've already surmised that. Thank you, Mister Scott.
MCCOY: Well, Spock, you took your calculated risk in your calculated Vulcan way, and you lost. You lost for us, you lost for that planet, and you lost for Jim.
SPOCK: I accept the responsibility, Doctor.
MCCOY: And my responsibility is the health of this crew. You've been driving yourself too hard, and I want you to get some rest.
SPOCK: Mister Chekov, resume heading eight eight three mark four one.
MCCOY: Back to that planet? Without warp speed, it'll take months, Spock.
SPOCK: Exactly fifty nine point two two three days, Doctor, and that asteroid will be four hours behind us all the way.
MCCOY: Well then what's the use? We might not be able to save the captain even if he still is alive. We might not be able to save anything, including this ship! You haven't heard a word I've said. All you've been doing is staring at that blasted obelisk.
SPOCK: Another calculated Vulcan risk, Doctor.

[lodge]
WOMAN: This joining means the end of darkness.
MIRAMANEE: It's a time for joy for all my people.

[Obelisk]
ELDER: You will wait until I walk the holy path to the earth lodge first, to give me time to tell the priestess that you follow and that the Joining will take place.
KIRK (voiceover): I have found paradise. Surely no man has ever attained such happiness.

[Path]
KIRK: Get out of my way, Salish.
SALISH: Even though you be a god, Kirok, I cannot permit this Joining.
KIRK: Nobody's asking for your permission.
SALISH: Then you must strike me dead.
KIRK: I have no intention of striking you dead.
SALISH: You bleed. You bleed, Kirok. Behold a god who bleeds! Behold a god who bleeds!
SALISH: Kill me. Kill me, Kirok, for I will not rest until I prove to my people that you are no god.

[Spock's quarters]
MCCOY: I thought you were reporting to Sickbay.
SPOCK: There isn't time, Doctor. I must decipher those obelisk's symbols. They're a highly advanced form of cipher writing.
MCCOY: You've been trying to do that ever since we started back to that planet. Fifty eight days.
SPOCK: I'm aware of that, Doctor. I'm also aware when we arrive at the planet, we'll have barely four hours to effect rescue. I believe those symbols are the key.
MCCOY: Well, you won't read them by killing yourself. You've hardly eaten or slept for weeks. Now if you don't let up, you're going to collapse.
SPOCK: I am not hungry, Doctor. And under stress, we Vulcans can do without sleep for weeks.
MCCOY: Well, your Vulcan metabolism is so low it can hardly be measured, and as for the pressure, that green ice water you call blood
SPOCK: My physical condition is not important, Doctor. That obelisk is.
MCCOY: Well, my diagnosis is exhaustion brought on from overwork and guilt. You're blaming yourself for crippling this ship, just as we blamed you. Well, we were wrong. So were you. You made a command decision. Jim would have done the same. My prescription is rest, now. Do I have to call the security guards to enforce it?

[Forest]
KIRK: Miramanee. Come here. Miramanee.
MIRAMANEE: Each time your arms hold me is as joyous as the first.
KIRK: I'm happy. I'm so happy. If it weren't for the dreams, my mind would be completely at peace.
MIRAMANEE: I thought you no longer had the dreams, that you no longer saw the strange lodge which moves through the sky.
KIRK: They've come back. They were gone for a while, but they've come back, and I see faces, too. Very dim. I feel I should know know them. I feel my place is with them, not here. I don't deserve this happiness.
MIRAMANEE: I have a gift for you.
KIRK: A gift? What?
MIRAMANEE: It may make you happy. Wait.
KIRK (voiceover): These last few weeks, my love for Miramanee grows stronger with each passing day. However, the dreams return every night. Fragments of memories. I can almost get hold of them, and then
MIRAMANEE: I bear your child.
KIRK: You!

[Lodge]
KIRK: A canal. And with it we'll bring the water from the lake right to the lodge. And we can expand the system, and irrigate the fields and double the food supply.
MIRAMANEE: And with the power of the lamp. Lamp?
KIRK: Lamp.
MIRAMANEE: Which turns night into day, we can cook twice as much food, and as you taught us, pre
KIRK: Preserve.
MIRAMANEE: Preserve.
KIRK: Preserve. MIRAMANEE@ For times of famine. That is why you made the lamp, Kirok, so that I would never know when it was night, and I would be forever cooking.
KIRK: Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no. That's not why I made the lamp at all, to keep you forever cooking.
KIRK: It's only the wind and the thunder.
MIRAMANEE: I act like a stupid child. I have nothing to fear. You are here. It is time. KIRK; Time?
MIRAMANEE: To go to the temple. The people will be waiting.
KIRK: Why?
MIRAMANEE: To save them.
KIRK: But it's only the wind. The wind can't harm them.
MIRAMANEE: The wind is only the beginning. Soon the sky will darken, the lake will go wild, and the earth will tremble. Only you can save us.
KIRK: But I can't do anything about the wind or the sky.
MIRAMANEE: If we don't go now, it will be too late. You must go inside the temple and make the blue flame come out.
KIRK: I don't know how to get inside the temple.
MIRAMANEE: But you are a god.
ELDER: Kirok! Kirok!
SALISH: Why are you not at the temple, Kirok? Soon the ground will begin to tremble. The people need your help.
KIRK: We'll go to the caves. It'll be safe there.
SALISH: The caves? Surely a legend can do more than that for his people.
ELDER: When the ground trembles the caves are not safe, Kirok. If you do not rouse the temple spirit, we will all die.
MIRAMANEE: There is nothing you cannot do, my husband.
SALISH: Well, what do you wait for, god? Your robes?
KIRK: Take care of Miramanee.

[Obelisk]
KIRK: I am Kirok! I have come! I am Kirok!

[Spock's quarters]
MCCOY: I prescribed sleep.
SPOCK: You prescribed rest, Doctor. The symbols on the obelisk are not words. They are musical notes.
MCCOY: Musical notes? You mean it's nothing but a song?
SPOCK: In a way, yes. Other cultures, among them certain Vulcan offshoots, use musical notes as words. The tones correspond roughly to an alphabet.
MCCOY: Were you able to make sense our of the symbols?
SPOCK: Yes. The obelisk is a marker, just as I thought. It was left by a super-race known as the Preservers. They passed through the galaxy rescuing primitive cultures which were in danger of extinction and seeding them, so to speak, where they could live and grow.
MCCOY: I've always wondered why there were so many humanoids scattered through the galaxy.
SPOCK: So have I. Apparently the Preservers account for a number of them.
MCCOY: That's probably how the planet has survived all these centuries. The Preservers put an asteroid deflector on the planet.
SPOCK: Which has now become defective and is failing to operate.
MCCOY: And we have to find that deflector and put it back into working order, otherwise
SPOCK: Precisely, Doctor.

[Obelisk]
SALISH: There's the false one!
ALL: Die! Die! Die!
MIRAMANEE: No! No! Don't hurt him!
KIRK: Miramanee!
MIRAMANEE: Don't hurt him! He can save us!
SALISH: He's false!
MIRAMANEE: I belong to him.
SALISH: Then go. Go die with your false god.
ALL: You'll be killed! Kill him! We're all doomed! Die, impostor! You lied to us! You're not a god! We'll kill you now!
MCCOY: I need Nurse Chapel.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Come in, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: We've located the captain. Beam down Nurse Chapel with an emergency surgical kit.
KIRK: My wife. Is she all right?
MCCOY: Wife?
SPOCK: Hallucinations?
KIRK: Miramanee.
SPOCK: The nurse has given you something to ease the pain. Why were you being stoned?
MIRAMANEE: Kirok could not get back into the temple.
SPOCK: Naturally, since he did not come from there.
MIRAMANEE: I saw him come, come.
CHAPEL: Does he recognize us?
MCCOY: His brain is unimpaired. Everything else is functionally normally except his memory.
SPOCK: Can you help him?
MCCOY: It'd take time.
SPOCK: Time, Doctor McCoy, is the one thing we do not have in abundance. Spock here.
SULU (voiceover): Tracking report, sir. Sixty five minutes to end of safety margin.
SPOCK: Report noted. Doctor, is he strong enough for the Vulcan mind fusion?
MCCOY: We have no choice.
SPOCK: I am Spock. You are James Kirk. Our minds are moving closer. Closer, closer, closer, James Kirk. Closer.
KIRK: No!
SPOCK: James Kirk.
KIRK: Miramanee! No! Miramanee!
SPOCK: Our minds are one.
BOTH: I am Kirok. I am Kirok.
SPOCK: I am Kir
KIRK: I am Kirok! I am
SPOCK: Spock!
MCCOY: What is it?
SPOCK: His mind. He is an extremely dynamic individual.
KIRK: It worked.
SPOCK: Captain, were you inside this structure?
KIRK: Yes. What's inside is loaded with scientific equipment.
SPOCK: This obelisk is one huge deflector mechanism. It is imperative that we get inside immediately. Captain, we do not have much time.
KIRK: McCoy.
KIRK: I don't know how to get inside.
SPOCK: If we are not able to gain entry and activate the deflector mechanism within the next fifty minutes, this entire planet will be destroyed.
KIRK: The key must be in these symbols. We've got to decipher them.
SPOCK: I already have to some extent, Captain. They are musical notes.
KIRK: You mean entry can be gained by playing certain notes on a musical instrument?
SPOCK: That would be one method. Another would be a series of tonal qualities spoken in their proper sequence.
KIRK: Give me your communicator. Tonal control, consonants and vowels. I must have hit it accidentally when I contacted the ship.
SPOCK: If you could remember your exact words, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, if the deflector isn't activated within twenty minutes, get out of orbit. Get the Enterprise out of the danger zone. The landing party is expendable. The Enterprise isn't. Kirk out. Miramanee. Bones, stay with her. Do what you can.

[Obelisk Chamber]
SPOCK: It is similar to deflector panels I've seen, Captain, but far more complicated.
KIRK: Careful. I must have hit something accidentally. A beam caught me and that's when I stopped remembering.
SPOCK: Probably a memory beam. You must have activated it out of sequence.
KIRK: More symbols. Can you read them?
SPOCK: I do have an excellent eye for musical notes, Captain. They would seem to indicate that this series of relays activated in their proper
KIRK: Spock, just press the right button.

[Lodge]
KIRK: How is she?
MCCOY: She had bad internal injuries, Jim.
KIRK: Will she live?
MCCOY: No.
MIRAMANEE: Kirok. It is true. You are safe.
KIRK: And so are your people, Miramanee.
MIRAMANEE: I knew you would save them, my chief. When I am better, it will be as it was, will it not?
KIRK: If that's what you want.
MIRAMANEE: We will live long and happy lives. I will bear you many strong sons. I'll love you always.
KIRK: And I'll love you, Miramanee. Always.
MIRAMANEE: Each kiss is as the first.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: I have completed the assignment, Captain. A theoretical incursion into
KIRK: Yes, Mister Chekov. I can read, and as usual your theoretical evaluations do not tally with mine. Return to your duty and I'll let you know when your work is satisfactory.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Full sensor scan of the region, please.
SPOCK: I did give a full report
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, that was the past. I'm concerned with the present. Or is it becoming too much for this crew to present me current information? SPOCK; No, sir. Compliance presents no problem.
KIRK: Then, Mister Spock, comply.
SPOCK: Sensor scan to one half parsec. Negative, Captain.
KIRK: Very well.
MCCOY (voiceover): I can find no reason for the captain's behavior, except possibly that we've been on patrol too long without relief and diversion. He has resisted all of my attempts to run a psychological profile on him.
SULU: Maintaining course and speed, sir.
KIRK: Change course. Come about to one eight five, mark three.
SULU: But, sir, that'll lead us directly into the Romulan Neutral Zone.
KIRK: Yes, very perceptive, Mister Sulu. I know where the course change takes us. Execute.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Increasing sensor scan to one parsec. All scanners report clear. Nothing in our immediate vicinity.
KIRK: Better and better, Mister Spock.
SULU: Captain, leaving Neutral Zone. Now entering Romulan space.
KIRK: Very well, Mister Sulu.
SCOTT: Lieutenant, when did the order come through?
UHURA: Order?
SCOTT: From Starfleet. The order to enter the Neutral Zone.
UHURA: There's been no order I know of, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Surely the Captain couldn't be doing this on his own authority.
KIRK: If you two have complaints, you can bring them out into the open.
SCOTT: That's a Klingon ship! But it couldn't be, not in this area.
SPOCK: Intelligence reports Romulans now using Klingon design.
KIRK: Sound Red Alert. Man battle stations. Stand by main phasers.
UHURA: Battle stations. All hands, battle stations.
SPOCK: A second ship has appeared. Correction, there are now three. We are surrounded.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, code a message to Starfleet Command. Advise them of our situation. Include all log entries to this point.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, your sensors read clear. What happened?
SPOCK: I have a theory, Captain.
UHURA: Captain Kirk, I'm receiving a class two signal from the Romulan vessel.
KIRK: Put it on the main viewing screen, Lieutenant, and complete that message to Starfleet Command.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
TAL (screen): You have been identified as the star ship Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk last known to be in command.
KIRK: Your information is correct. This is Captain Kirk.
TAL (screen): I am Sub-commander Tal of the Romulan fleet. Your ship is surrounded, Captain. You will surrender immediately, or we will destroy you.
KIRK: Lieutenant. They want something, or they would have destroyed us by now.
SPOCK: True, Captain. That would be standard Romulan procedure.
KIRK: It's my ship they want, and very badly.
SPOCK: It would be a great prize.
KIRK: Lieutenant. Save your threats. If you board this ship, I'll blow it up. You'll gain nothing.
TAL (screen): Who is that beside you?
KIRK: My first officer, Commander Spock.
TAL (screen): Vulcan. Yes, Commander. Yes, Commander. No one should decide quickly to die, Captain. We give you one of your hours. If you do not surrender your ship at the end of that time, your destruction is certain. We will be open to communication should you wish it.
KIRK: You understand that Starfleet Command has been advised of the situation?
TAL (screen): The subspace message will take three weeks to reach Starfleet. The decision is yours, Captain. One hour.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: The design of the ship is the same. Mister Spock, you said you had a theory on why your sensors didn't pick up the new ships until they were upon us.
SPOCK: I believe the Romulans have developed a cloaking device which renders our tracking sensors useless.
KIRK: If so, Romulans could attack in Federation territory before we knew they were there, before a vessel or planet could get even begin to get their defenses up.
SCOTT: They caught us right enough.
KIRK: Well, that's a brilliant observation, Mister Scott. Do you have any other helpful opinions?
SCOTT: We've not got many choices.
KIRK: We have three. We can fight and be destroyed, or we can destroy the Enterprise ourselves and keep her from the Romulans. Or we can surrender. Opinions, gentlemen.
SCOTT: If the Enterprise is taken by Romulans, they'll know everything there is to know about a starship.
SPOCK: If we had not crossed the Neutral Zone, on your order, you would not now need our opinions to support a decision which should never have had to be made.
MCCOY: Jim, you ordered us? You had no authority!
KIRK: Dismissed, Doctor.
MCCOY: Jim!
KIRK: I said dismissed.
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Bridge]
UHURA: The Romulan vessel is signaling again, sir.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Put them on the screen.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
TAL (screen): My commander wishes to speak with you, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Put him on.
TAL (screen): The commander wishes to see you and your first officer aboard this vessel. It is felt this matter requires diskussion.
KIRK: Why should we walk right into your hands?
TAL (screen): Two of my officers will beam aboard your vessel as exchange hostages while you are here.
KIRK: What guarantee do we have they'll beam aboard our ship once we're on yours?
TAL (screen): Granted, we do not easily trust each other, Captain, but you are the ones who violated our territory. Should it not be we who distrust your motives? However, we agree to simultaneous exchange.
KIRK: Give us your transporter co-ordinates. We're beaming aboard.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: One final order, Engineer Scott. If we do not return, the Enterprise must not be taken. If the Romulans attempt it, you're to fight, and if necessary, destroy yourselves. Is that clear?
SCOTT: Perfectly clear.
KIRK: Energize.

[Romulan Commander's office]
COMMANDER: Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Commander. I'm honored.
COMMANDER: I don't think so, but we have an important matter to diskuss. And your superficial courtesies are an overture to that diskussion. You are the first officer?
SPOCK: Spock.
COMMANDER: I speak first with the Captain. You may wait outside.
COMMANDER: The matter of trespass into Romulan space is one of galactic import, a violation of treaties. Now I ask you simply, what is your mission here?
KIRK: Instrument failure caused navigational error. We were across the Neutral Zone before we realized it, then we were surrounded by your ships before we could get back.
COMMANDER: A starship? One of the Starfleet's finest vessels? You're saying instrument failure as radical as you suggest went unnoticed until you were well past the Neutral Zone?
KIRK: Accidents happen. Cut off back-up systems malfunction. We were due for overhaul two months ago.
COMMANDER: I see. But you were able to navigate with this malfunction?
KIRK: The error was corrected.
COMMANDER: But I doubt it'll clear you of espionage.
KIRK: We were not spying, Commander.
COMMANDER: Your language has always been most difficult for me, Captain. Perhaps you have another word for it.
KIRK: You're grossly mistaken if you think we were there
COMMANDER: Captain, if a Romulan vessel ventured far into Federation territory without good explanation, what would a starbase commander do? You see, it works both ways. I hardly believe you are the injured party. Spock, come in.
COMMANDER: The captain has made his statement.
SPOCK: I understand.
COMMANDER: I must admit some surprise on seeing you, Spock. We were not aware of Vulcans aboard the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Starfleet is not in the habit of informing Romulans of its ships' personnel.
COMMANDER: Quite so. Yet there are certain ships, certain officers, that are known to us. Your situation appears most interesting.
KIRK: What earns Spock your special interest?
COMMANDER: He is a Vulcan. Our forebears had the same roots and origins. Something you wouldn't understand, Captain. We can appreciate the Vulcans, our distant brothers. I have heard of Vulcan integrity and personal honor. There's a well-known saying, or is it a myth, that Vulcans are incapable of lying?
SPOCK: It is no myth.
COMMANDER: Then tell me truthfully now, by your honor as a Vulcan, what was your mission?
SPOCK: I reserve the privilege of speaking only when it will not violate my honor as a Vulcan.
COMMANDER: It is unworthy of a Vulcan to resort to subterfuge.
SPOCK: You're being clever, Commander. That is unworthy of a Romulan. It is not a lie to keep the truth to oneself.
COMMANDER: Then there is a truth here that remains unspoken.
KIRK: You've been told everything. There's nothing else to say.
COMMANDER: There is Mister Spock's unspoken truth. You knew of the cloaking device that we have developed. You deliberately violated Romulan space with a blatant spy mission, by order of the Federation.
KIRK: We've been all through that, Commander!
COMMANDER: We have not even begun! There's no force that I can use on a Vulcan that will make him speak. That is a fact. But there are Romulan methods completely effective against humans and human weaknesses.
SPOCK: You would not resort to them, Commander. They would prove ineffective against the captain.
COMMANDER: Then they will leave him dead, or what might be worse than dead. But I will know your unspoken truths.
KIRK: Let her rant. There's nothing to say.
SPOCK: I cannot allow the captain to be further destroyed. The strain of command has worn heavily upon him. He's not been himself for several weeks.
KIRK: That's a lie!
SPOCK: As you can see, Captain Kirk is a highly sensitive and emotional person. I believe he has lost the capacity for rational decision.
KIRK: Shut up, Spock!
SPOCK: I'm betraying no secrets. The commander's suspicion that Starfleet ordered the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone is unacceptable. Our rapid capture demonstrates its foolhardiness.
KIRK: You filthy liar!
SPOCK: I am speaking the truth for the benefit of the Enterprise and the Federation. I say now and for the record, that Captain Kirk ordered the Enterprise across the Neutral Zone on his own initiative and his craving for glory.
KIRK: I'll kill you, you filthy traitor! I'll kill you! I'll kill you!
SPOCK: He is not sane.
COMMANDER: Attention, Enterprise, I am speaking to you from the Romulan flagship.

[Bridge]
COMMANDER (voiceover): The USS Enterprise, under command of Captain James T. Kirk, is formally charged with espionage. The testimony of First Officer

[Sickbay]
COMMANDER (voiceover): Spock was highly instrumental in confirming this intrusion into Romulan space was not an accident. First Officer Spock's testimony was specific that your ship was not under orders from Starfleet Command or the Federation council to perform such a spy mission.

[Romulan Commander's office]
COMMANDER: It was Captain Kirk who was solely responsible. Since the crew had no choice but to obey orders, the crew will not be held responsible. Therefore, I am ordering Engineer Scott, presently in command of the Enterprise, to follow the Romulan flagship

[Bridge]
COMMANDER (voiceover): To our home base. You will there be processed and released to Federation Command. Until judgment is passed, Captain Kirk will be held in confinement.
SCOTT: Security, put our two Romulan hostages in the brig. Lieutenant Uhura, give me a channel to that ship.
UHURA: Channel is open, Mister Scott, and you are tied in.
SCOTT: This is Lieutenant Commander Scott. The Enterprise takes no orders, except those of Captain

[Romulan Commander's office]
SCOTT (voiceover): Kirk, And we will stay right here until he returns. And if you make any attempt to board or commandeer the Enterprise, it will be blown to bits along with as many of you as we can take with us.
COMMANDER: You humans make a brave noise. There are ways to convince you of your errors.
KIRK: Did you hear that, you coward? You've betrayed everything of value you ever knew. Did you hear the sound of human integrity?
COMMANDER: Take him to the security room.
COMMANDER: A Vulcan among humans. Living, working with them. I would think the situation would be intolerable to you.
SPOCK: I am half Vulcan. My mother is a human.
COMMANDER: To whom is your allegiance then? Do you call yourself Terran or Vulcan?
SPOCK: Vulcan.
COMMANDER: How long have you been a Starfleet officer, Spock?
SPOCK: Eighteen years.
COMMANDER: And you serve Captain Kirk. Do you like him? Do you like your shipmates?
SPOCK: The question is irrelevant.
COMMANDER: Possibly, but you are subordinate to Captain Kirk's orders, even to his whims.
SPOCK: My duty as an officer is to obey him.
COMMANDER: You are a superior being. Why do you not command?
SPOCK: I do not desire a ship of my own.
COMMANDER: Or is it that no one has offered you, a Vulcan, that opportunity?
SPOCK: Such opportunities are extremely rare.
COMMANDER: For someone with your capabilities and accomplishments, opportunities are made and will be. I will see to that, if you'll stop looking on the Federation as the whole universe. It is not, you know.
SPOCK: That thought has occasionally crossed my mind.
COMMANDER: You must have your own ship.
SPOCK: Commander, shall we speak plainly? It is you who desperately need a ship. You want the Enterprise.
COMMANDER: Of course. It would be a great achievement for me to bring home the Enterprise intact. It would broaden the scope of my powers greatly. It would be the achievement of a lifetime. And it would open equal opportunities for you.

[McCoy's quarters]
UHURA (voiceover): Bridge to Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: McCoy here.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Doctor, you must beam aboard the Romulan flagship immediately. There's been an injury.

[McCoy's quarters]
MCCOY: I don't make house calls.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Doctor, it's Captain Kirk!

[Romulan Brig]
MCCOY: He'll recover, but he'll need further attention. Inform your superior.

[Romulan Commander's office]
COMMANDER: Yes? I'll come there. Attend me.

[Romulan Corridor]
COMMANDER: I neglected to mention, I'll expect you for dinner. We have much to diskuss.
SPOCK: Indeed.
COMMANDER: Allow me to rephrase. Will you join me for dinner?
SPOCK: I am honored, Commander. Are the guards also invited?
COMMANDER: Mister Spock. That corridor is forbidden to all but loyal Romulans.
SPOCK: Of course. I shall obey your restrictions.
COMMANDER: I hope that one day there will be no need for you to observe any restrictions.
SPOCK: It would be illogical to assume that all conditions remain stable.

[Romulan Brig]
COMMANDER: Are you the doctor?
MCCOY: McCoy. Chief medical officer.
COMMANDER: Captain Kirk's condition?
MCCOY: Well, you can see for yourself, he's mentally depressed, physically weak, disoriented, displays feelings of persecution and rebellion.
COMMANDER: Then by your own standards of normality, this man is not fully competent.
MCCOY: No, not now.
COMMANDER: Mister Spock has stated that he believes the captain had no authority or order to cross the Neutral Zone. Could this mental incapacity have afflicted him earlier?
MCCOY: Yes, it's possible.
COMMANDER: Mister Spock, the doctor has now confirmed your testimony as to the mental state of your captain. He was and is unfit to continue in command of the Enterprise. That duty has fallen on you. Are you ready to exercise that function?
SPOCK: I am ready.
MCCOY: Spock, I don't believe it. There's no price you could pay that would make him sell out.
SPOCK: The matter is not open for diskussion, Doctor.
MCCOY: What do you mean, the matter's not open for diskussion?
COMMANDER: That's enough, Doctor. As a physician, your duty is to save lives. Mister Spock's duty is to lead the Enterprise and its crew to a safe haven.
SPOCK: There is no alternative, Doctor. The safety of the crew is now the paramount issue. It is misguided loyalty to resist any further.
KIRK: You traitor. I'll kill you. I'll kill you. I'll kill you!
MCCOY: What did you do? What did you do?
SPOCK: I was unprepared for his attack. I instinctively used the Vulcan death grip.
MCCOY: Your instincts are still good, Mister Spock. The captain is dead.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Doctor! Doctor McCoy! Doctor McCoy!
MCCOY: I left orders that no one come in here.
CHAPEL: But he's alive, alive!
MCCOY: Well now that you know it, you might as well assist me. Hand me the physiostimulator.
CHAPEL: But he was dead. Their doctors certified he was dead.
MCCOY: Spock gave him a nerve pinch to simulate death.
CHAPEL: Then Mister Spock isn't a traitor, and you knew that and you didn't
MCCOY: I didn't know it until I beamed aboard the Romulan ship. Jim and Spock were operating under Federation orders.
KIRK: Oh. My neck feels like it's been twisted off.
MCCOY: That's the Vulcan death grip for you.
CHAPEL: There's no such thing as a Vulcan death grip.
KIRK: Ah, but the Romulans don't know that. Sure fooled the doctors.
MCCOY: You took a big chance they didn't start an autopsy.
KIRK: As far as the rest of the crew's concerned, I'm still dead.
CHAPEL: Why?
KIRK: That's what this whole masquerade was about. To keep the Enterprise and the Federation off the hook.
MCCOY: So that if anything went wrong, you would be the one to blame.
KIRK: Bones, I want you to prepare for surgery.
MCCOY: What for?

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge.
SCOTT: Scott here, Doctor.
MCCOY (voiceover): Mister Scott, will you report to Sickbay.
SCOTT: Sickbay? I can't leave the bridge at a time like this.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: You have to. It's urgent.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: We're surrounded by enemy vessels ready to attack us. I don't know of anything more urgent than that.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Well, I do. Mister Scott, please.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: All right, Doctor. It better be important. Scott out.

[Sickbay]
SCOTT: All right, Doctor, what's so urgent that... Captain? Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Yes.
SCOTT: Well, you look like the devil himself, but as long as you're alive. What's it all about?
KIRK: Are those Romulan officers still aboard the ship?
SCOTT: They're in the brig, sir.
KIRK: I'll need a Romulan uniform. SCOTT; Aye. It'll be a pleasure.

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
COMMANDER: I've had special Vulcan dishes prepared for you. I hope they're to your liking.
SPOCK: I am very flattered, Commander. There's no doubt that the cuisine aboard your vessel is far superior to that of the Enterprise. It is indeed a very powerful recruiting inducement.
COMMANDER: We have other inducements.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: What the devil is Spock doing? What's delaying him?
KIRK: I wish I knew. Scotty, are you sure we have a clear channel to Spock?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. No doubt of it.
KIRK: Then we can't wait any longer. Prepare to beam me aboard the flagship.
SCOTT: But Mister Spock hasn't sent the proper co-ordinates yet.
KIRK: It can't be helped, Scotty.
MCCOY: You're taking an awful chance, Jim.
KIRK: Just don't put me inside a bulkhead. Energize.

[Romulan corridor]
ROMULAN: Centurion. I'm sorry, no one is allowed
KIRK: I've just effected an escape from the Federation vessel. I have important information for Sub-commander Tal. Where is he?
ROMULAN: He's in control central, sir.
KIRK: Good. I shall remember to mention your alertness to him. Return to your duty.
ROMULAN: Thank you, Centurion.

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
COMMANDER: You have nothing in Starfleet to which to return. I offer, we offer you an alternative. We will find a place for you, if you wish it.
SPOCK: A place?
COMMANDER: With me. Romulan women are not like Vulcan females. We are not dedicated to pure logic and the sterility of non-emotion. Our people are warriors. Often savage. But we are also many other pleasant things.
SPOCK: I was not aware of that aspect of Romulan society.
COMMANDER: As a Vulcan, you would study it. As a human you would find ways to appreciate it.
SPOCK: Please believe me. I do appreciate it.
COMMANDER: I am so glad. Now one final step to make the occasion complete. You will lead a small party of Romulans aboard the Enterprise, and there you will take your rightful place as its commander. And you will lead the ship to a Romulan port, with my flagship at its side.
SPOCK: Yes, of course, but not just this moment. An hour from now will do even better. Would it not, Commander?
COMMANDER: Yes. Yes, it will, Mister Spock. You do know I have a first name.
SPOCK: I was beginning to wonder.
COMMANDER: Well, I do. Would you like to hear it?
SPOCK: How rare, and how beautiful. But so incongruous when spoken by a soldier.
COMMANDER: If you will give me a moment, the soldier will transform herself into a woman.
SPOCK: Spock to Captain Kirk.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SPOCK: Captain

[Romulan ship]
SPOCK (voiceover): Are you prepared to beam over?
KIRK: I'm already on board, Spock. Do you have the information?

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. The cloaking device is in an area near the commander's quarters. It is closely guarded and off-limits to all but authorized personnel. What is your present location?

[Romulan Bridge]
OFFICER: Sub-commander Tal. I'm receiving an alien transmission from within our vessel, sir.
TAL: Alien? Are you certain?
OFFICER: Yes, Sub-commander.
TAL: I must know the source!
OFFICER: Triangulating now, sir.

[Romulan ship]
KIRK: Spock, I'll get the cloaking device. Will you be able to get back to the Enterprise without attracting their attention?

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. At present, I am rather heavily
COMMANDER: Is my attire now more appropriate, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Commander, your attire is not only more appropriate, it should actually stimulate our conversation.

[Secure Area]
GUARD: Centurion, have you clearance for this area? I do not recognize you.
KIRK: There's an intruder aboard. Has someone tried to gain entrance there?
GUARD: I must see your authorisation, sir.
KIRK: Over there!

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
COMMANDER: It's hard to believe that I can be so moved by the touch of an alien hand.
SPOCK: I must confess that I too am moved emotionally. I know it is illogical.
COMMANDER: Mister Spock, we mustn't question what we truly feel. Accept what is happening between us, even as I do.
TAL (voiceover): Commander? Permission to enter.
COMMANDER: Not now, Tal.
TAL (voiceover): It is urgent, Commander.
COMMANDER: Enter.
TAL: Commander, we have intercepted an alien transmission.
COMMANDER: Locate its source.
TAL: We have, Commander. This room.
COMMANDER: The cloaking device. Bring him.

[Cloaking device room]
ROMULAN: Halt. Don't move. Who are you? What are you doing in here?
KIRK: There's an enemy spy aboard. He'll be after the cloaking device.
ROMULAN: Drop your weapon.
KIRK: Scotty, energize.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: But, sir, what about Mister Spock?
KIRK: We'll just have to hope he can buy us enough time to get this cloaking device installled.
SCOTT: It'll have to hook into our deflector shield control.
KIRK: Can you do it?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir.
KIRK: You have fifteen minutes, Scotty.

[Cloaking device room]
TAL: Commander, the cloaking device is gone.
COMMANDER: Full alert. Search all decks.
SPOCK: That will be profitless, Commander. I do not believe you will find it.
COMMANDER: You must be mad.
SPOCK: I assure you I am quite sane.
COMMANDER: Why would you do this to me? What are you that you could do this?
SPOCK: First officer of the Enterprise. What is your present form of execution?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5027.4. Commander Scott has less than fifteen minutes to installl the Romulan's cloaking device and get it working. I hope Mister Spock can buy us the time we need.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain!
CHEKOV: You're alive!
UHURA: They said you'd been killed, sir.
KIRK: The report was premature.
CHEKOV: Captain, your ears. What happened?
KIRK: We'll diskuss it later. Mister Sulu, lay in a course for home. Mister Chekov, take the sensors. Mister Spock is still aboard the Romulan flagship. I want his body readings pinpointed and isolated. That was not a request, gentlemen.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
SULU: Aye, sir.
UHURA: Aye, sir.

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
COMMANDER: Return to your station, Sub-commander. The boarding action on the Enterprise will begin with my command. If they resist, destroy her.
COMMANDER: Execution of state criminals is both painful and unpleasant. I believe the details are unnecessary. The sentence will be carried out immediately after the charges have been recorded.
SPOCK: I demand the Right of Statement first.
COMMANDER: You understand Romulan tradition well. The right is granted.
SPOCK: Thank you. I shall not require much time. No more than twenty minutes, I should say.
COMMANDER: It should take less time than that to find your ally, who stole the cloaking device. You will not die alone. Recording the Romulan Right of Statement. Proceed, Commander Spock.
SPOCK: My crime is sabotage. I freely admit my guilt. The oath I swore as a Starfleet officer is both specific and binding. As long as I wear the uniform, my duty is to protect the security of the Federation. Clearly, your new cloaking device is a threat to that security. I carried out my duty.
COMMANDER: Everyone carries out his duty. You state the obvious, Spock.
SPOCK: There is no regulation regarding the content of my statement. May I continue?
COMMANDER: Very well. Your twenty minutes is almost up.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Chekov, there's only one Vulcan aboard that ship. He should be easy enough to locate.
CHEKOV: Romulans and Vulcans appear to read almost exactly alike. There is just a slight difference which. Got him, sir.
KIRK: Feed the co-ordinates to the transporter room on the double. Have them prepare to beam him aboard on my signal.
UHURA: Captain Kirk. Mister Scott is on the intercom for you, sir.
KIRK: Go ahead, Scotty.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I've got that device installled, but bless me if I know whether it'll work.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's the biggest guess I've ever made.
KIRK: Stand by, Scotty.
CHEKOV: Sir, transporter room has the co-ordinates and is ready for beaming.
KIRK: Transporter room, beam Mister Spock aboard.

[Romulan Commander's quarters]
SPOCK: Beyond the historic tradition of Vulcan loyalty, there is also the combined Romulan-Vulcan history of obedience to duty.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Transporter room reports Mister Spock aboard, sir, and the Romulan commander.
KIRK: The commander?
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: All right. Have them report to the Bridge on the double. Mister Sulu, take us away from the Romulans. Warp factor nine.

[Romulan Bridge]
OFFICER: Sub-commander, the enemy vessel is moving away at extreme speed, sir.
TAL: Alert all vessels. Weapons officer, bring main batteries to bear on the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SULU: Holding at warp nine, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, throw the switch on that device.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I did, sir.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's not working.
COMMANDER: I would give you credit, Captain, for getting this far. But you will be dead in a moment and the credit would be gratuitous.
KIRK: Lieutenant, open a channel to the Romulan vessel.
UHURA: Aye, sir. I have Sub-commander Tal, sir.
KIRK: Establish two-way visual contact.
TAL (screen): We have you under our weapons, Enterprise. You cannot escape.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. Hold your fire. We have your commander aboard.
TAL (screen): Commander?
COMMANDER: Destroy this vessel. I gave you a direct command! Tal!
KIRK: Break contact!

[Romulan Bridge]
TAL: Helmsman, flank speed. Weapons officer, stand by to fire main batteries as soon as we reach optimum range.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, we're running out of time.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, I'm working as fast as I can.

[Bridge]
COMMANDER: You see, Captain? Your effort is being wasted.
KIRK: Mister Spock, distance from the Romulan vessel?
SPOCK: One hundred and fifty thousand kilometers, Captain, and closing very rapidly.
KIRK: Stand by, phasers. Commander, you'll forgive me if I put up a fight.
COMMANDER: Of course. It's expected.
SPOCK: One hundred thousand kilometers. They should commence firing at us within the next twelve point seven seconds.
KIRK: Scotty.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: It's ready now, Captain, but I don't know whether our circuits can handle this alien contraption.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Throw the switch.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: It'll likely overload.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Throw the switch. (Scott does, and the Enterprise gently vanishes, like a Cheshire cat.

[Romulan Bridge]
TAL: Weapons officer, commence fire. Gone. They have the cloaking device! Quickly, compute enemy course from last position and open fire!
OFFICER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, come about. Three one eight mark seven.
SULU: Three one eight mark seven, sir. Executing.
SPOCK: The cloaking device is working perfectly, and the commander has informed me that even the Romulan sensors cannot track a vessel so equipped.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. Cancel Red Alert. We'll let you off at the nearest Federation outpost.
COMMANDER: You are very generous, Captain. If I may be taken to your brig, I will take my place as your prisoner.
KIRK: Mister Spock will have the honor of escorting you to your quarters.
COMMANDER: Captain.
KIRK: Commander.

[Turbolift]
SPOCK: Deck two. It is regrettable that you were made an unwilling passenger. It was not intentional. All the Federation wanted was the cloaking device.
COMMANDER: The Federation. And what did you want?
SPOCK: It was my only interest when I boarded your vessel.
COMMANDER: And that's exactly all you came away with.
SPOCK: You underestimate yourself, Commander.
COMMANDER: You realize that very soon we will learn to penetrate the cloaking device you stole.
SPOCK: Obviously. Military secrets are the most fleeting of all. I hope that you and I exchanged something more permanent.
COMMANDER: It was your choice.
SPOCK: It was the only choice possible. You would not respect any other.
COMMANDER: It will be our secret.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Entering Neutral Zone, Captain.
KIRK: Very good, Mister Chekov. Thank you, Mister Leslie.
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge.
KIRK: What is it, Bones?

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Well, if all the shouting's over up there, I'd like for you to report to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What for?
MCCOY (voiceover): Well, you're due in surgery. I'm going to bob your ears.
SPOCK: Captain, please go. Somehow they do not look esthetically agreeable

[McCoy's office]
SPOCK (voiceover): On humans.
MCCOY: Well, are you coming, Jim?

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Or do you want to go through life looking like your First Officer?
KIRK: I'm on my way.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Professor Starnes? It's Kirk.
MCCOY: He's dead, Captain.
KIRK: He didn't seem to know me.
MCCOY: Cyalodin.
KIRK: Self-inflicted.
STARNES (voiceover): Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
KIRK: All this. Self-inflicted. Mass suicide.
MARY: You missed me.
STEVE: I did not.
TOMMY: Hi. Who are you?
KIRK: Kirk of the starship Enterprise.
TOMMY: I'm Tommy Starnes. This is Mary, Steve, Ray, and Don.
MARY: Come on. Play with us. Come on. Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down! Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplementary. We have buried the members of the Starnes exploration party. Everyone has been deeply affected by what has happened here, with some important exceptions.

[Planet surface]
MARY: Let's go and play.
KIRK: No sign of grief?
MCCOY: No, Jim. No indication of any kind.
KIRK: Or of fear.
MCCOY: They seem completely secure and unafraid.
KIRK: And you insist their behavior indicates traumatic shock?
MCCOY: I don't insist, Jim, but I can't dismiss the possibility.
KIRK: A child suppresses the fact that both parents are dead? I can't believe it.
SPOCK: Humans do have an amazing capacity for believing what they choose and excluding that which is painful.
KIRK: Not these children, to this extent. It's incredible.
MCCOY: What those children saw is incredible, Jim. The way those deaths occurred, any reaction is possible including lacunar amnesia. That's my diagnosis. Until specific tests can be made, it remains that.
KIRK: I'll be guided by that opinion, Doctor, for the present. What about questioning them?
MCCOY: Not until the fabric of the traumatisation weakens or you come up with another explanation for their behavior. Forcing them to see this experience now could cause permanent damage.
KIRK: Accepted, Doctor.
KIRK: Careful.
DON: I'm, I'm sorry, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Children. Children, listen to me. It's late and it's time to go up to the ship.
DON: Oh, not yet.
MARY: But we're just beginning to have fun.
RAY: Not now.
KIRK: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You'll go up with the doctor.
MCCOY: Come on. It's time to be going.
KIRK: Whatever happened here is locked up inside those children.
SPOCK: The attack on Professor Starnes' party must surely have been unprovoked.
KIRK: Attack? Mass suicide is what it seems to be.
SPOCK: I stand corrected, Captain. Induced would be a more precise term. Induced by an outside force.
KIRK: Such as?
SPOCK: The release of bacteria. Or a helpless mental depression and a state of suicidal anxiety could have been chemically induced.
KIRK: What would make the children immune?
SPOCK: I do not know, but it is possible.
KIRK: Then the children would have been exempted by conscious design.
SPOCK: A valid assumption, I would say.
KIRK: And their present behavior explained by a fear of punishment.
SPOCK: Or the promise of reward.
KIRK: An attack by an unknown assailant on an uninhabited planet. This planet is uninhabited, Mister Spock, to the best of our information?
SPOCK: At present, yes. Odd.
KIRK: Getting a reading?
SPOCK: There seems to be some disturbance coming from that cave.

[Cave]
KIRK: Picking up any life-forms, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Definitely not humanoid, Captain. Impossible to make any specific identification. The readings do not correlate with any known information.
KIRK: Oh, that's strange. That's very strange. I'm getting a feeling of anxiety in this place. It doesn't sound very scientific, does it? But it's strongest right here.
SPOCK: I'm not aware of it, Captain.
KIRK: Maybe that's what's registering on your tricorder.
SPOCK: I am not familiar with anxiety, but I wasn't aware it could be registered on sensors.
KIRK: No, of course. That's, that's me. That's me. But what's causing your tricorder to react?

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Are you all right, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. Just some sympathetic vibration with what happened here. Let's get back to the ship. I want to check out those tapes from Professor Starnes' tricorder. And I am going to question those children.

[Rec room]
CHAPEL: All right, children. Each card is a different flavor. You take your pick, and the computer will mix your favorite combination. Now, what would you like? Call out your favorites.
ALL: Vanilla! Chocolate! Cherry! Banana!
CHAPEL: Well, would you like a surprise, Stevie?
STEVE: It's coconut and vanilla. They're both white.
CHAPEL: There, there now, Stevie. There are unpleasant surprises as well as pleasant ones. That was your unpleasant surprise. Now, what would you like for your pleasant surprise?
STEVE: Chocolate wobble and pistachio.
CHAPEL: Well, coming right up.
STEVE: And peach.
CHAPEL: All right. It's going to be a wonderful surprise.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: The tests show no evidence of tensions due to lying. They behave as though nothing had gone wrong. They check out sound physically. There are no signs of any foreign biochemical substances to account for their present state. I have no answers, Jim.
KIRK: There has to be an answer.
MCCOY: Well, can't it wait till we get to a Starbase hospital so they can be checked out by child specialists?
KIRK: We're not leaving here until we find out what went on or what's going on.
MCCOY: Well, I won't prevent you questioning them, but it could harm the children if you do.
KIRK: It could be far worse for them if I don't, and for us too.
MCCOY: Be careful.

[Rec room]
CHAPEL: After this, we can all play games.
KIDS: Yeah.
CHAPEL: How do you like getting ice cream out of a computer?
MARY: That was fun.
KIRK: Well, well, well. You're all having such a good time, I think I'll join you. Is that all right?
MARY: Please do.
KIRK: I'll have a dish, too.
CHAPEL: Oh, of course.
KIRK: A little one. A very small one. It's better than Triacus, isn't it?
DON: That dirty old planet?
RAY: What's so good about that place?
STEVE: Yeah?
MARY: You weren't there very long. You don't know.
KIRK: I don't think your parents liked it very much either.
TOMMY: Yes, they did.
STEVE: Yeah. Mine sure did.
DON: Parents like stupid things.
CHAPEL: Oh, I don't know about that. Parents like children.
MARY: Ha. That's what you think.
KIRK: I'm sure your parents loved you. That's why they took you with them to Triacus. So they wouldn't be so far away from you for such a long time. That would make them very unhappy and miss you. I'm sure that you would miss them, too.
TOMMY: Busy, busy.
ALL: Busy. Busy. Busy! Busy!
DON: Guess what we are.
CHAPEL: I know. A swarm of bees.
MARY: Watch out. Watch out. I'll sting you.
KIRK: Now wait a minute.
TOMMY: Can we have some more ice cream, please?
KIRK: No, I don't think so. It'll spoil your dinner.
TOMMY: See what I told you? They all say it.
MARY: Yeah.
KIRK: All right, children, you've had a busy day. I think you could use some rest. Nurse Chapel will see you to your quarters.
CHAPEL: Very good idea, Captain.
MARY: Aw, do we have to?
KIRK: Tommy, Just a moment. I'd like to ask you a question. Come and sit down. Tommy, will you tell me what you saw?
TOMMY: Saw where?
KIRK: In the cave, on the planet. On Triacus.
TOMMY: You were there.
KIRK: Did you see your father today?
TOMMY: I saw him.
KIRK: Did he seem upset?
TOMMY: Yeah, he was very upset.
KIRK: What about?
TOMMY: I didn't ask him.
KIRK: What was going on that would have upset him?
TOMMY: How should I know? He was always upset, just like you, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: I'm not upset with you, Tommy, or your friends. We invited you aboard the Enterprise. Why would I do that if I didn't like you?
TOMMY: You have your reasons.
KIRK: Aren't you unhappy about leaving Triacus?
TOMMY: That place? That's for adults.
KIRK: Aren't you upset about leaving your parents?
TOMMY: My parents? They love it down there. Always busy. They're happy. Can I go now? I'm tired too, you know.
KIRK: Yes, certainly. I'll take you.
TOMMY: I know the way.
KIRK: Kirk to security. Post a guard on the children. They're to be kept under constant watch.

[Children's quarters]
ALL: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail
GORGAN: You have done very well, my friends. You have done what must be done. You have come aboard the Enterprise. Now our destination is a Federation settlement. Captain Kirk will undoubtedly choose a closer station. Do not let that deter you. Marcos Twelve has millions of people on it. Nearly a million will join us as our friends. The rest will be our enemies. Together with our other friends who will join us, we will defeat our enemies as we defeated them on Triacus. A million friends on Marcos will make us invincible. No one will tell us where to go, when to sleep, where to eat. The universe will be mine to command, yours to play in. To accomplish this great mission, we must first control the Enterprise. To control the ship, we first must control the crew. You know how to do that. That is your next task. And as you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do.

[Bridge]
SULU: Maintaining standard orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, any report from the planet security team?
UHURA: Everything is quiet, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, I have extracted the salient portion of Professor Starnes' tapes.
KIRK: Good.
SPOCK: Among the technical facts he gathered, Professor Starnes also offered some rather unscientific hypotheses.
KIRK: Let's see them.
STARNES (screen): Log date 5025.3. Ever since our arrival on Triacus, I've felt a certain growing feeling of uneasiness. At first I attributed it to the usual case of nerves associated with any new project. However, I've found that the rest of my associates are also bothered by these anxieties. The only ones not affected are the children Bless them, they find the whole thing an exciting adventure. Ah, to be young again.
KIRK: Let's see some more of these unscientific hypotheses, Mister Spock.
STARNES (screen): 5032.4. The feeling of anxiety we've all been experiencing is growing worse.
SPOCK: There is another portion, Captain, which I believe you'll find particularly interesting.
STARNES (screen): 5038.3. Professor Wilkins finished his excavation today. Although whatever civilisation that might have been here was destroyed by some natural catastrophe, it would appear that one of the race took refuge in the cave. And, for our efforts, we are becoming only more apprehensive. As if some unseen force were influencing us.
KIRK: What happened?
SPOCK: Unknown.
KIRK: I didn't see you come in, Tommy.
TOMMY: Captain, after we leave here, can you take us to Marcos Twelve?
KIRK: No. We'll probably take you to a Federation Starbase.
TOMMY: But I have relatives on Marcos Twelve.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Tommy. Marcos Twelve is not within our patrol area. Mister Spock, we'll pursue this in my quarters.
TOMMY: Captain, can I stay here and watch? I'll be very quiet.
KIRK: All right, Tommy. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy report to my quarters for a brief conference. Mister Leslie?
SULU: Hi there.
TOMMY: Hi.
TOMMY: What is that?
SULU: The planet Triacus.
TOMMY: Will we see that all the time we stay here?
CHEKOV: Yes, we will. All the time we're here.
MARY: He sees Triacus on the screen.
TOMMY: He thinks he sees it.
UHURA: Mister Sulu, the screen. We're out of orbit.
MARY: Will we reach Marcos Twelve soon?
TOMMY: Very soon.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: When did we change course?
MAN: We haven't changed course.
SCOTT: What do you mean, we haven't changed course? Look at your bridge control monitor.
MAN: We're still in orbit, sir.
SCOTT: Have you gone completely blind? That's not orbiting position.
MAN: Don't touch the controls, sir.
SCOTT: What the devil do you think you're doing?
MAN: We must remain in this orbit till the bridge orders a change.
SCOTT: You blind fool! Can't you see in front of you? We're not in orbit.
MAN: I will not disobey an order from the bridge.
SCOTT: You are disobeying an order from the bridge. Now step aside.
MAN: You're losing control of yourself.
SCOTT: Not yet.

[Kirk's quarters]
STARNES (screen): I'm being influenced to do things that do not make sense. I even went so far as to call Starfleet Command to request a spaceship to be used as a transport. It was only when I couldn't tell them what I wanted to transport that I began to realize that my mind was being directed. I decided to send a dispatch to Starfleet, warning them. God forgive us. Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
SPOCK: He never completed the entry, and the dispatch was never sent. Except for scenes of family life, games and picnics with the children, that is the complete record. Whatever overwhelmed them must have done so with incredible speed. Otherwise, the professor would have provided details of the experience. He was an excellent scientist and tireless in his pursuit of the truth.
KIRK: That could be what destroyed him.
SPOCK: Possible, Captain. Evil does seek to maintain power by suppressing the truth.
MCCOY: Or by misleading the innocent.
KIRK: Misleading the innocent? I wonder.
MCCOY: Do you mean the children may be involved?
KIRK: Yes, Doctor. Spock what do we know about the race that lived here?
SPOCK: According to the legend, Triacus was the seat of a band of marauders who made constant war throughout the system of Epsilon Indi. After many centuries, the destroyers were themselves destroyed by those they had preyed upon.
KIRK: Is that the end of it?
SPOCK: No, like so many legends, this one too has a frightening ending. It warns that the evil is awaiting a catalyst to set it again into motion and send it marauding across the galaxy.
KIRK: Is it possible that the evil found the catalyst?
SPOCK: I was speaking of a legend, Captain.
KIRK: But most legends have their basis in fact, Spock.
MCCOY: I think I read you, Jim, but as medical officer I must warn you that unless the normal grief is tapped and released from these children, you are treading dangerously.
KIRK: I understand your diagnosis, Doctor, and I'll respect it. But not to the exclusion and safety of the Enterprise. Thank you.
KIRK: Spock, what other expeditions have visited Triacus?
SPOCK: According to Federation records, this is the first.
KIRK: What was it Professor Starnes said about the unseen force?
SPOCK: He said an unseen force was influencing him, that he recognized it, was beginning to fight it and canceled his request for a ship.
KIRK: A ship. Yes, a ship for Triacus. But why? By whom? Security detachment. Ready for relief duty on Triacus. Assemble in the transporter room immediately. I'll have some questions for that planet detachment as soon as they're beamed up. I think it's about time we found out whether Professor Starnes' enemy within is on the planet below or here onboard ship with us. Come on.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Your tour of duty will last one hour. Be prepared with your communicators at all times to report any alien beings. Don't wait to investigate. Beam down the guards.
KIRK: Beam up the security detachment from Triacus. Spock? What's wrong?
SPOCK: I am unable to lock on to the proper co-ordinates.
KIRK: Why not?
SPOCK: It appears we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
KIRK: That's impossible. If we're not orbiting Triacus, then the men I beamed down are dead.
SPOCK: Captain, we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
KIRK: Activate the bridge monitor screen.
KIRK: Captain to Bridge.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Sulu, we're not orbiting Triacus.
SULU: With all respects, Captain, you're wrong. I have Triacus on my screen now.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: You're off course. I'm coming right up.

[Bridge]
ALL: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
KIRK: Sulu!
ALL: Fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
GORGAN: Friends we have reached a moment of crisis. The enemy have diskovered our operation, but they are too late. They no longer control the ship. We do. We shall prevail. They will take us any place we desire. Go back to your stations. Maintain your controls. If resistance mounts, call upon their beast. Their beast will serve us well. The fear in each one of them is the beast which will consume him. Remember how it was on Triacus. If they resist, so shall it be on the Enterprise. If you need me, call and I will appear. Our new goal is Marcos Twelve. It is our new beginning. We must not falter.
TOMMY: Go to your stations. Mary, you remain here with me.
KIRK: Helmsman, disregard what you see on the screen, what you think you see on the screen. Set a course for Starbase Four.
KIRK: Helmsman, did you hear me?
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starbase Four. Tell them we're bringing the children there. Tell Starfleet Command I suspect them of being alien in nature, and I want a thorough investigation made upon our arrival.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant, what are you staring at?
UHURA: I see my death. A long death. Disease and pain. I see my death.
KIRK: Lieutenant, there's nothing there.
UHURA: Oh, God. Captain, don't let it be.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you make the call to Starfleet. Mister Sulu, I ordered you to change course. Mister Sulu
SULU: Captain, stay away from the controls! If you touch them, we'll be destroyed.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, there's nothing there.
SPOCK: Captain, why are we bothering Starfleet?
KIRK: That was an order, Spock.
SPOCK: This bridge is under complete control.
KIRK: Complete?
SPOCK: There is no need.
KIRK: Take a look around you.
SPOCK: I cannot obey your order, Captain.
KIRK: Take Mister Sulu to his quarters. He is relieved of duty.
KIRK: Confine them to quarters. Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
SPOCK: Captain, we must get off this bridge.
KIRK: Yes, we must. I'm losing command. I'm losing my ability to command. I'm losing the Enterprise.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: I'm losing command. I'm losing the Enterprise. The ship is sailing on and on. I'm alone. Alone. Alone. I'm losing command.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: I've lost command. I've lost the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Jim.
KIRK: I've got command. I've got command. I've got command.
SPOCK: Correct, Captain.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Where to, Captain?
KIRK: Auxiliary control, my Vulcan friend. This ship is off course.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK: Scotty. I want you to override the bridge navigation system and plot a course for Starbase Four.
SCOTT: I can't do that, sir.
KIRK: Why not?
SCOTT: These are very sensitive instruments. I will not have you upset their delicate balance. We would all be lost, forever lost. Go away now. Go away or we'll kill you.
KIRK: Scotty, listen to me. The Enterprise has been invaded by alien beings. Its destination is Marcos. If we take it there, millions will die the way they died at Triacus.

[Corridor]
KIRK: No, I'm all right, Spock. My beast is finished. It won't return.
SPOCK: Captain, so long as the children are present, there is danger. They are the carriers.
KIRK: Spock, they're not the alien beings. They're children being misled.
SPOCK: They are followers. Without followers, evil cannot spread.
KIRK: They're children.
SPOCK: Captain, the four hundred and thirty men and women on board the Enterprise and the ship itself are endangered by these children.
KIRK: They don't understand the evil that they're doing.
SPOCK: Perhaps that is true, but the evil that is within them is spreading fast, and unless we can find a way to remove it
KIRK: We'll have to kill them. Captain Kirk.
KIRK: What is it, Ensign?
CHEKOV: I have been instructed to place you and Mister Spock under arrest.
KIRK: By whose order?
CHEKOV: Starfleet Command, sir.
KIRK: Where did you hear this order, Ensign? Now, listen to me. This order is false. I want you and your men to return to their stations.
CHEKOV: I'm sorry, but I must insist you and Mister Spock come with me to the detention section.
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me.
CHEKOV: Do not force me to kill you, sir. I will if I have to. Will you come peacefully, Captain?
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me. This is a false order, Ensign.
CHEKOV: I have never disobeyed an order, Captain. You know I have never
KIRK: I know that, Ensign. You have never disobeyed an order, but an alien being is aboard this ship.
CHEKOV: I will not disobey now! I cannot disobey!
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me. You will disobey this order! Starfleet Command supersedes your order, sir!
KIRK: Enough. Take these men to detention then join me on the bridge.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The Enterprise will never reach Marcos Twelve. We will not be landing there.
TOMMY: The crew will take us. The crew believes.
KIRK: The crew does not understand. When we make them understand as I understand, they won't take you to Marcos.
MARY: They will! They will!
TOMMY: We are going to Marcos! We are going to follow our friend!
KIRK: Your friend? Where is your friend? Where is that stowaway? Why does he hide?
MARY: He will come if we call him.
TOMMY: But we won't. We don't need him. We're not afraid of you.
KIRK: Good. I'm glad you're not afraid of me. But your leader is afraid. What's he afraid of?
MARY: He's not afraid of anybody.
TOMMY: He's not afraid of anything.
KIRK: He's afraid to be seen. And when the crew sees and hears him, they'll understand that he is not their friend, and they won't follow him.
TOMMY: He is our friend.
KIRK: Then let him show himself. Bring him out! Let him prove to me that he is my friend and I'll follow him to Marcos Twelve and to the ends of the universe!
TOMMY: No!
KIRK: Mister Spock, playback the chant the children sang to summon up the Gorgan.
ALL (voiceover): Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me.
KIRK: The time has come to see the world as it is. Come on.
GORGAN: Who has summoned me?
KIRK: I did, Gorgan. My beast is gone. It lost its power in the light of reality. I command again, and I ordered you here.
GORGAN: No, Captain. I command here. My followers are strong and faithful and obedient. That's why we take what is ours wherever we go.
SPOCK: You take from those who do not know you.
KIRK: And we know you.
GORGAN: Then you know I must win, Captain.
KIRK: Not if we join together to fight you.
GORGAN: Foolish. You will be destroyed. I would ask you to join me, but you are gentle, and that is a grave weakness.
KIRK: We're also very strong.
GORGAN: Ah, but your strength is canceled by your gentleness. You are full of goodness. Such as you cannot be changed. You are like the parents. You must be eliminated.
KIRK: Children, I have pictures of some of you on Triacus. I'd like to show them to you. Would you like to see them? Mister Spock, the pictures.
GORGAN: I forbid it.
SPOCK: Why should you fear it?
GORGAN: I fear nothing.
KIRK: So we were told. Mister Spock, the pictures. The children are waiting.
GORGAN: They would not help transport us. They were against us. They had to be eliminated.
SPOCK: Tommy's father would have destroyed you, but he recognized you too late.
GORGAN: You are also too late. The kind ones always are.
KIRK: Not always, Gorgan. Not this time. You can't hide from them. They see you as we see you. They know what you are. Even the children learn.
GORGAN: You are my future generals. Together we can raise armies of followers. Go to your posts! The first great victories are upon us. You will see. We have millions of friends on Marcos Twelve. We shall exterminate all who oppose us! Our purity of purpose cannot be contaminated by those who disagree, who will not co-operate, who do not understand. They must be annihilated.
KIRK: Don't be afraid. Look at him. Without you children, he's nothing. The evil remains within him.
GORGAN: I command you! I command you! To your posts! Carry out your duties, or I will destroy you! You will be swept aside to make way for the strong.
KIRK: Look how ugly he really is. Look at him and don't be afraid.
GORGAN: Death. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all.
KIRK: It's all right.
MCCOY: They're crying, Jim. I don't know how it happened, but it's good to see.
KIRK: It's all right, Mary. It's all right. It's all right, isn't it, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes. It's all right. We can help them now.
SULU: Marcos Twelve dead ahead, sir.
KIRK: Reverse course, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SULU: Course reversed, Captain.
KIRK: Set course for Starbase Four, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
SULU: Phaser banks standing by, sir.
CHEKOV: Range forty three thousand and closing.
KIRK: What do you read, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Configuration unidentified. Ion propulsion, high velocity, though of a unique technology.
KIRK: Any contact, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Hailing on all frequencies, sir. All languages have been attempted. No response. Now using standard interstellar symbols.
KIRK: Keep trying.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Magnification ten, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir. Thirty eight thousand and closing.
KIRK: Well, Scotty?
SCOTT: It beats me, but isn't she a beauty?
KIRK: Interesting design.
SCOTT: I've never seen anything like her. And ion propulsion at that. They could teach us a thing or two.
KIRK: Life forms, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: One. Humanoid or similar. Low level of activity. Life-support systems functioning. Interior atmosphere, conventional nitrogen-oxygen. Instruments indicate a transferal beam emanating from the area of the humanoid life form.
KIRK: Directed at what?
SPOCK: Directed at the Bridge of the Enterprise, Captain.
KIRK: Security guard.
UHURA: Security guard to the Bridge.
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk. This is the Starship Enterprise.
SULU: What happened?
KIRK: Helm status, Mister Sulu.
SULU: No change from last reading, sir.
KIRK: Condition reports from all decks, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock. Where's Spock?
MCCOY (voiceover): Jim! Jim!
KIRK: Yes, what is it?

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: You'd better come down to Sickbay

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Right now.
KIRK: All right. On my way.
UHURA: Deck five. Personnel, no damage.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Now.
CHAPEL: Functioning.
MCCOY: Thank God.
KIRK: Spock. What happened?
CHAPEL: I found him on the table.
KIRK: Like this?
MCCOY: No, not like this.
KIRK: What happened?
MCCOY: I don't know.
KIRK: You've got him on complete life support. Was he dead?
MCCOY: He was worse than dead.
KIRK: What do you mean?
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: Come on, Bones. What's the mystery?
MCCOY: His brain is gone.
KIRK: His what?
MCCOY: It's been removed surgically.
KIRK: How could he survive?
MCCOY: It's the greatest technical job I've ever seen. Every nerve ending in the brain must've been neatly sealed. Nothing ripped, nothing torn, no bleeding. It's a medical miracle.
KIRK: If his brain is missing, then Spock is dying.
MCCOY: No. That incredible Vulcan physique hung on until the life-support cycle took over. His body lives. The autonomic functions continue. But there is no mind.
KIRK: That girl.
SCOTT: Aye.
MCCOY: What girl?
KIRK: From that ship. She took it. I don't know why, or where, but she must have taken it. Bones, how long can you keep him functioning?
MCCOY: I can't give you any guarantee.
KIRK: That's not good enough, Doctor.
MCCOY: If it happened to any of us, I'd say indefinitely. But Vulcan physiology limits what I can do. Spock's body is more dependent on that tremendous brain for life support.
KIRK: Then we'll take him with us.
MCCOY: Take him? Take him where?
KIRK: In search of his brain, Doctor. From what you say, the moment we find it we must restore it to his body, or we lose him.
MCCOY: Jim, where are you going to look? In this whole galaxy, where are you going to look for Spock's brain? How are you going to find it?
KIRK: I'll find it.
MCCOY: Even if you do, I can't restore it. I don't have the medical technique.
KIRK: It was taken out. It can be put back in.
MCCOY: But I don't know how.
KIRK: The thief that took it has the knowledge. I'll force it out of her.
MCCOY: If you don't find it in twenty four hours, you'd better forget the whole thing, Jim.
KIRK: You and Scotty have Spock ready.

[Bridge]
SULU: I've got it again. An ion trail matching when we first saw her.
KIRK: Where does the trail lead to?
CHEKOV: System Sigma Draconis.
KIRK: Lock on, Mister Sulu. Maximum speed.
SULU: Warp six.
KIRK: No question about the trail?
SULU: No mistake, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5431.4. for fifteen hours and twenty minutes we have been following the ion trail of the spaceship that has Spock's brain. Time left to us, eight hours and forty minutes.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, I've lost the trail.
KIRK: All scanners, extreme sweep.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Well?
CHEKOV: Nothing, sir.
UHURA: No signal at all, Captain.
SULU: It's gone, sir. A sudden deaction shift.
KIRK: We've lost her trail, but she went into that system. Mister Chekov, put a schematic of Sigma Draconis on the screen.
CHEKOV: Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Read out, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Sun, spectral type, Gamma nine. Nine planets, three of them, Class M possessing sapient life according to reports and long-range scanning.
KIRK: She was breathing our air. She must've gone to one of them. Show us the three Class-M planets. Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: The one on the left, number three, rates letter B on the industrial scale.
KIRK: Earth equivalent approximately 1485.
CHEKOV: Yes, sir. Second planet Class M, number four, rates letter G.
KIRK: The year 2030.
SULU: But that ship, Captain, either it was many years ahead of us or the most incredible design fluke in history.
KIRK: Third Class M planet, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Number six. No sign of industrial development. At last report, in a Glacial Age. Sapient life plentiful, but on a most primitive level.
KIRK: Now. as I understand it, Mister Chekov, there are three Class-M planets,
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Not one of which is capable of launching an interstellar flight,
CHEKOV: No, sir.
KIRK: Yet one of them accomplished it.
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Chekov.
UHURA: Captain, I'm picking up high energy generation on planet six.
KIRK: That's the primitive glaciated planet.
CHEKOV: Yes, sir.
KIRK: The source of it?
UHURA: It could be natural. Volcanic activity, steam, any number of causes. But it's very regular.
KIRK: What do your surface readings show, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: No sign of organized civilisation. Primitive humanoids picked up at irregular intervals.
KIRK: With regular pulsations of generated energy?
CHEKOV: I can't explain it, sir.
KIRK: I can't afford to guess wrong. I've got to choose the right planet, get there, find the brain. Eight hours and thirty five minutes.
KIRK: Recommendations, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Sigma Draconis Three. It's closest, heaviest population.
SULU: But a technological rating of only three. They couldn't possibly have put that ship we saw into space.
CHEKOV: None of these planets could.
SULU: I say planet four, Captain. At least planet four is ahead of three technologically.
KIRK: But advanced ion propulsion is beyond even our capabilities. It'd be a miracle if they had developed it.
UHURA: What would they want with his brain? What would they want with Mister Spock's brain? What use is it?
KIRK: Yes.
UHURA: Why do they want it?
KIRK: Yes. Why would they want it? Eight hours and thirty four minutes. Planet six is glaciated, you say?
CHEKOV: Several thousand years at least. Only the tropical zone is ice-free.
KIRK: But the energy. Regular. It's there. It's real.
UHURA: Yes, sir. It doesn't make sense, but it's there.
KIRK: Have the transporter room stand by. I'm taking a landing party down to planet six.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SULU: A hunch, Captain?
KIRK: A hunch, Mister Sulu.
CHEKOV: What if you guess wrong, Captain?
KIRK: If I guess wrong, Mister Spock is dead. Spock will die.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4351.5. We are beaming down to a primitive glaciated planet in the Sigma Draconis star system. Time left to us to find Spock's brain, eight hours and twenty nine minutes.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Suit temperatures to seventy two. Life-form readings, Mister Spock? Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Scattered. Widely spaced. Humanoid, all right. On the large side.
KIRK: Watch out. We know their development is primitive.
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: Read out, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: No structures, Captain. No mechanized objects that I can read. No surface consumption or generation of energy. Atmosphere is perfectly all right, of course. Temperature, a high maximum of forty. Livable.
KIRK: You have a thick skin.
SCOTT: Captain! There's someone, something out there in the rocks. Five of them. Humanoid, large.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. I want them conscious.
KIRK: Fire only on my signal. Flank out.
KIRK: We mean you no harm. We're not your enemies, we're your friends. We only wish to talk to you.
MORG: You are not the Others?
KIRK: No. We come from a far place. We are men.
MORG: Men?
KIRK: Like yourselves.
MORG: You are small, like the Others.
KIRK: Who are the Others?
MORG: Givers of pain and delight.
KIRK: Do they live here with you?
MORG: No. They come. They give pain and delight.
KIRK: Do they come from the sky?
MORG: They are here. You will see. The Others will come for you. They come for all like us.
KIRK: Do they come for your women as well?
MORG: Women?
KIRK: The female of your kind.
MORG: Your words say nothing.
KIRK: Don't you have a mate?
MORG: Mate?
SCOTT: A companion.
KIRK: Will you take us where we can find the Others?
MORG: No one wants to find them.
KIRK: We do. We want to find them. Take us there and we'll let you go.
CHEKOV: Captain, five hundred meters in that direction there's a foundation under the surface. A huge one. Registrations all over the place.
KIRK: Buildings?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir. Immensely old, completely buried. But they were here once.
KIRK: Somewhere down there is where the Others live. Scotty, see if you can find a way down.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
MORG: No! No! No, do not go there! No! No!
KIRK: It's all right.
KIRK: It's all right. Let him go.
CHEKOV: What could the Others do to cause such terror?
KIRK: What was it he said, pain and delight?
CHEKOV: A peculiar mixture.
KIRK: A dead and buried city on a planet in a glacial age.
CHEKOV: And the male humanoid who doesn't know the meaning of the word female.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain!

[Cave entrance]
SCOTT: Over here, sir. There's food in there and a whole pile of other stuff. A storehouse for our muscular friends.

[Cave]
KIRK: I don't think so. Scotty.
KIRK: Metal. Forged, tempered. Our apish friends didn't make these. What do you think?
SCOTT: It could be a warning device to keep those creatures away from the food.
KIRK: Or the food could be a lure set by the Others to bring them in here.
SCOTT: In that case, the beam would be a signal.
KIRK: And this cave a trap.
CHEKOV: If it will trap the creatures for the Others, Captain, won't it trap us, too?
KIRK: Exactly.

[Cave entrance]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise. Uhura here.
KIRK: Have Doctor McCoy beam down immediately.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, you and the security team will remain here at the entrance. We'll be in constant contact with you.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: All right, Bones. Bring him along.
SCOTT: Keep him close to the right.

[Cave]
KIRK: Ready?
MCCOY: Call Chekov and tell him to send my stomach down.

[Cave entrance]
CHEKOV: It might be a long wait. We may as well be comfortable.

[Cave]
KIRK: Phasers on stun.
SCOTT: Captain, that power we picked up above, we're getting closer.
KIRK: A lot of it?
SCOTT: Enough to push this planet out of orbit.
KIRK: What source?
SCOTT: Either a nuclear pile a hundred miles across or
KIRK: Or what?
SCOTT: Ion power.
KIRK: We're slowing down.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Is she all right?
MCCOY: I'll have her talking in a minute.
LUMA: You do not belong here. You are not Morg.
KIRK: Who's in charge? I wish to speak to him.
LUMA: Him? What is him?
KIRK: What have you done with Spock's brain? Where've you taken it?
LUMA: You are not Morg or Eymorg. I know nothing about a brain.
KIRK: You're lying!
MCCOY: She's not, Jim. No change in reading. She doesn't know.
KIRK: See what you can pick up on your communicator.
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: We don't want to hurt you. What is this place?
LUMA: This place is here.
KIRK: Who are you?
LUMA: I am Luma. I am Eymorg. You are not Eymorg. You are not Morg. What are you?
MCCOY: Jim, it's no use. You'll get nothing out of that one. Hers is the mind of a child.
SCOTT: Captain, I've got something, but I can't quite get a fix on it.
SPOCK (voiceover): Fascinating. Activity without end, but with no volition.
KIRK: Spock, is that you?
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain? Captain Kirk?
KIRK: Yes, Spock. Yes.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, there is a definite pleasurable experience connected with the hearing of your voice.
MCCOY: Where are you, Spock?
SPOCK (voiceover): Is that you, Doctor McCoy, and are you with the Captain?
MCCOY: Where else would I be?
SCOTT: Mister Spock, where are you?
SPOCK (voiceover): Engineer Scott as well. Unfortunately, I do not know where I am.
KIRK: We'll get you, Spock. It won't be long.
SPOCK (voiceover): A practical idea, Captain. It seems unlikely that I shall be able to get to you.
KIRK: Quickly!
KIRK: There she is. That's the one. What have you done with Spock's brain? Captain's Log, stardate 5431.6. Immediately after making contact with Spock's brain, Doctor McCoy, Engineer Scott, and myself were taken prisoner inside a highly complex civilisation hundreds of meters below the surface of planet Sigma Draconis Seven. The primitive creature we encountered above warned us about the givers of pain and delight and the frightening consequences of being captured by them.

[Council room]
KARA: What are you? Why are you here? You have something to speak?
KIRK: What have you done with Spock's brain?
KARA: We do not know Spock.
KIRK: This is Spock. You saw him on the ship. You have his brain. It must be restored to him immediately. What have you done with it?
KARA: Ah, yes, brain. You spoke to Luma also of brain, but we do not understand.
KIRK: I do not know about Luma, but you were on the Enterprise. I saw you.
KARA: I do not know these things you speak of.
KIRK: You came to my ship!
KARA: We know only here below and here above. This is our place. You are not Morg. You are stranger.
KIRK: I saw you on my ship.
MCCOY: Jim, she may not remember or even really know. Disassociation could be complete. It doesn't seem possible she could have performed surgery on Spock.
KIRK: No, it doesn't.
KARA: You hurt Luma. It is not permitted again to hurt anyone.
KIRK: Sorry. We don't want to hurt anyone.
KARA: If you wish to return to your home, you may go.
KIRK: No. We'll stay here and learn about you and tell you of us.
MCCOY: Yes, for instance, above it's cold and harsh. And below, it's warm. The air is fresh.
SCOTT: Aye. There's no sun, but there's light.
KIRK: I wish to talk to those in charge.
KARA: In charge?
KIRK: Yes, the organizers, the managers. The leader of your people.
KARA: I am leader. There is no other.
SCOTT: That's impossible. Who built the machines?
MCCOY: Who are the doctors? Who operates?
KIRK: Who controls this complex?
KARA: Control? Controller?
KIRK: Yes, the Controller. The Controller. Who controls? I would like to meet, to see him.
KARA: No. It is not permitted. Never! Controller is alone, apart. We serve Controller. No other is permitted near.
KIRK: We intend no harm.
KARA: You have come to destroy us.
KIRK: No, no, no. I promise you.
MCCOY: We just want to talk to somebody about Spock's brain. That's all.
KARA: Brain and brain! What is brain? It is Controller, is it not?
MCCOY: Yes. Yes, in a way it is. The human brain controls the individual's functions.
KIRK: Bones. Scotty. Spock's brain controls
MCCOY: It's not possible.
KIRK: Great leader. Great leader! We come from a far place to learn from your Controller.
KARA: You lie! You know me. You have said that. You came to take back the Controller.
KIRK: He is our friend. You must take us to him. We beg you. Soon it will be too late.
LUMA: Do not take them, Kara. Do not take them to the Controller.
KARA: They will be prevented.
KIRK: You must take us.
KARA: I must learn what to do. Come with me. You will keep them here.
GUARD: Yes, mistress. Ship's log. Lieutenant Sulu recording. I am holding the Enterprise in orbit about planet Sigma Draconis Seven. Captain Kirk's hunch that Spock's brain is on this planet appears to be correct. Ensign Chekov remains on the surface to act as liaison between the Captain and the Enterprise. {Council room]
KIRK: I never felt anything like that. Every nerve in my body was on fire.
MCCOY: I wouldn't believe the human organism could take such pain.
SCOTT: These are on to stay for a while. Must be a magnetic lock of some kind.
KIRK: No wonder the Morgs are so obedient, and terrified.
KIRK: How is this place kept functioning by the primitive minds we've met?
SCOTT: Those women could never have set up anything as complex as this has to be. Why, that takes engineering genius. But there's no sign of engineering genius in any of those women.
KIRK: They were smart enough to invent these training devices. What a way to maintain control over a man.
SCOTT: Pain and delight, he said up above.
MCCOY: I'm sure you noticed the delight aspect of this place.
KIRK: Yes, I certainly did notice those delightful aspects. But that too was strictly under command of the women.
SCOTT: How does Spock's brain fit into this?
KIRK: With a communicator, we might be able to find out. This fellow is keeping us from our property.
SCOTT: Isn't there a way to correct that situation?
KIRK: I certainly think that science might provide an answer.
MCCOY: It does, Captain.
KIRK: Agreed, Doctor.
KIRK: Science will triumph. Come on, Scotty. Bones, give them something to keep them out for a while. Spock. Spock. Come on, Spock. Spock, you were on this frequency, Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes, Captain, I am still here. Have you returned to the Enterprise?
KIRK: No. We might be able to locate you, if you gave us some idea of what they were using you for. Is it medical?
SPOCK (voiceover): I am not certain. I seem to have a body which stretches into infinity.
SCOTT: Body? Why, you have none.
SPOCK (voiceover): Then what am l?
MCCOY: You are a disembodied brain.
SPOCK (voiceover): Fascinating. It could explain much, Doctor. My medulla oblongata is hard at work apparently breathing, apparently pumping blood, apparently maintaining a normal physiologic temperature.
KIRK: Spock, we don't have time for that.
SPOCK (voiceover): Why are you endangering your lives by coming here?
KIRK: We came to put you back. Where are you?
SPOCK (voiceover): Back where?
KIRK: Back into your body. We brought it along with us.
SPOCK (voiceover): Thoughtful, Captain, but probably impractical. While I might trust the doctor to remove a splinter or lance a boil, I do not believe he has the knowledge to restore a brain.
MCCOY: Thank you.
SPOCK (voiceover): No denigration intended, Doctor McCoy. That skill does not yet exist in the galaxy.
KIRK: The skill to remove it exists right where we are. Restoring it must also be possible. That's why we've got to get to you as quickly as we can.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, I appreciate the risks you are taking on my behalf, but I must insist they are worthwhile only if there is a reasonable chance for success. Let me ask you, how much time has elapsed since
KIRK: Eighteen hours and twelve minutes.
SPOCK (voiceover): Doctor McCoy must've told you that twenty four hours is the maximum my body can
MCCOY: I told him.
KIRK: That leaves us exactly five hours and forty eight minutes, Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): It does seem all too brief a time to develop such skills, does it not?
KIRK: Yes. Very brief. That's why we must get to you immediately. Beam us a signal so we can home in on you.
SPOCK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
SCOTT: Got it.
KIRK: Bones.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Oh, Spock, one question.
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
KIRK: We've got pain-giving devices attached to us. Can you tell us how to get them off.
SPOCK (voiceover): I shall give it top priority.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, I have an answer for you. It seems your pain bands are manually controlled. The red button on a bracelet releases them. I know that does not make much sense.
KIRK: Oh, yes it does, Spock. Keep concentrating, Spock. Keep concentrating, Spock.
SCOTT: Must be in there, Captain.

[Control Room]
MCCOY: Jim.. Spock. No pain.
KARA: No. Go away.
KARA: We will die. You must not take the Controller away. We will all die. The Controller is young and powerful. Perfect!
SPOCK (voiceover): How very flattering.
KARA: You will give life to my people for ten thousand years to come.
KIRK: You'll find another Controller.
KARA: The old one is finished! There is no other than this and will not be another for ten thousand years.
KIRK: Spock, you're in a black box tied in with light rays into a complex control panel.
SPOCK (voiceover): Fascinating.
KIRK: You say you're breathing, pumping blood, maintaining temperature? Is it possible that you're re-circulating air, running heating plants, purifying water?
SPOCK (voiceover): Indeed, Captain. That is unquestionably part of what I am doing.
KARA: He must stay. He must stay!
KIRK: He will not stay. Now, you took his brain. You will put it back. How did you do it?
KARA: I do not know.
MCCOY: She couldn't, Jim. Her mind is functioning on a very simple level. Mental faculties here seem to be almost atrophied because of non-use.
KIRK: She was on the Enterprise. She must have done it. How did you do it?
KARA: It was the old knowledge.
KIRK: How do you get the old knowledge?
KARA: I put upon my head the Teacher.
KIRK: What is the Teacher?
KARA: The great Teacher of all the ancient knowledge.
SPOCK (voiceover): If I may explain, Captain. She refers to the tape storehouse of knowledge of the builders of this place. I scan it. A most impressive store.
KIRK: How does it work? Show us. KARA; I cannot.
KIRK: You must tell us.
KARA: I cannot. Only by command of the ancients may I understand.
KIRK: How does it work? Show us! We'll protect you.
SPOCK (voiceover): It is a device with feeding circuits. They lead into the mind of the priestess leader. Its use is strictly predetermined by the builders.
KARA: No! The knowledge is forbidden! I must not know the secret! I will be punished!
KARA: Gentlemen, the Controller's explanation of the functioning of the Teacher is essentially correct. However, he is giving no credit to me. I provide the means whereby the knowledge is used. Without me, Captain
MCCOY: Without you there could be no delicate miracle that kept Spock's brain alive.
KARA: Thank you, Doctor. That was very gracious.
MCCOY: Yes. From the very first, I appreciated your ability.
KARA: Good, Captain Kirk. Then you also appreciate that without the Teacher, I would not have the knowledge to use that which you have thoughtfully provided.
SCOTT: That phaser is set to kill.
KARA: So it is. That is the knowledge you have brought me. Do not move. If your weapon kills, it will kill you.
KIRK: We're not the first to bring you the knowledge of killing. If you continue, you'll kill Spock.
KARA: The Controller die? The Controller will live for ten thousand years, and we shall give him all our devotion.
KIRK: But Spock will be dead. His body's dying this minute.
KARA: Why do you not understand that the need of my people for their Controller is greater than your need for your friend.
KIRK: No one may kill a man. Not for any purpose. It cannot be condoned.
KARA: Do not! I do not know killing. I do not wish to kill.
KARA: The commandment must be fulfillled.
KIRK: You must help us. When you came to the ship, you had the knowledge. Yet, when we came here, you didn't.
KARA: Correct.
KIRK: How long does the knowledge last?
KARA: Three of your hours.
MCCOY: It would be just enough time.
KIRK: If you had the knowledge, could you restore what you've taken?
KARA: I would not.
KIRK: You must help us. You must restore with that knowledge what you have taken.
KARA: No!
KIRK: You must put back what you have taken.
KARA: I will not betray my people. The Controller will stay.
MCCOY: Jim, it worked for her. It might work for me.
SPOCK (voiceover): She is an alien. The configurations of her brain are different. It could cause irreparable damage to your human brain, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'm a surgeon already. If I could learn these techniques, I might be able to retain them.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, you might lose the doctor that way.
MCCOY: He might, but we're sure to lose you if I don't try.
SPOCK (voiceover): I cannot allow you to jeopardize your life for me.
MCCOY: Spock, didn't you hear? I might be able to retain and bring these techniques to the world. Jim, isn't it worth that risk? Wouldn't you insist upon taking such a risk yourself?
KIRK: Go ahead, Doctor. Put the Teacher on.
KARA: No!
MCCOY: Of course. Of course. A child could do it. A child could do it.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 5432.3. Doctor McCoy is proceeding to restore Spock's brain. Our problem, we do not know how long his increased surgical knowledge will stay with him. Any additional attempt to use the teaching device is impossible. It would kill my medical officer.

[Control room]
SCOTT: I've never seen anything like it. He's operating at warp speed. I'd like a try at that teacher myself.
KARA: You will have him back and we will be destroyed.
KIRK: No. You won't be destroyed. You'll be without your Controller for the first time, but you'll be much better off, I think.
KARA: We will die.
KIRK: No, you'll live and develop as you should have. All this shouldn't have been done for you. Now the women here below and the men here above will control together.
KARA: They will not help us without the pain.
KIRK: There are other ways. You'll diskover them. You must move to the surface, you understand.
KARA: We will die above in the cold.
KIRK: No, you won't. You'll learn to build houses, to keep warm, to work. We'll help you for a while. Humans have survived under worse conditions. It's a matter of evolution. You'll be fine.
SCOTT: Captain Kirk!
KIRK: What is it?
SCOTT: He's forgetting.
MCCOY: I can't. I
KIRK: Bones? Bones?
MCCOY: All the ganglia, the nerves. There are a million of them. What am I supposed to do? What am I supposed to do?
KIRK: Bones, you can't stop now.
MCCOY: I'm trying to thread a needle with a sledgehammer. What am I supposed to do? I can't remember. I don't remember.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: No one can restore a brain.
KIRK: You could. A while ago it was child's play.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our race against time to save Spock's life may prove futile. Doctor McCoy has lost the surgical knowledge he obtained from the teacher. He has been drawing on his own skills and surgical techniques in an attempt to continue the operation, but he is faltering and uncertain. In a desperate hope that he can draw on Spock's brain for assistance, I instructed Doctor McCoy to give priority to connecting Spock's vocal chords.

[Control room]
KIRK: Well?
MCCOY: He's dying, and I can't stop it.
SPOCK: Yes. Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Spock?
SPOCK: If you will finish reconnecting my speech center, I might be able to help.
MCCOY: Speech center.
SPOCK: Yes. That's correct. One thing at a time. Ah, ah, mmm. That's better. Now, Doctor. Try the sonic separator.
MCCOY: Sonic separator.
SPOCK: Yes, I believe I already have some sensation of feeling. Please stimulate the nerve endings and observe the physical reactions, one by one. In each case, I shall tell you when the probe is correct. You will then seal using the tri-laser connector.
MCCOY: Tri-laser connector. Ready?
SPOCK: Ready.
MCCOY: Right forefinger.
SPOCK: Correct.
MCCOY: Right wrist.
SPOCK: Correct.
MCCOY: Right elbow.
SPOCK: Correct. Very good, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'll never live this down. This Vulcan is telling me how to operate.
MCCOY: Closed.
KIRK: Well?
MCCOY: How do I know? I could have made a thousand mistakes. Sealing nerve endings, joining ganglia. The fluid balance is correct, but I don't know.
SPOCK: Congratulations, Doctor. And thank you.
KIRK: How do you feel, Spock?
SPOCK: On the whole, Captain, I believe I am quite fit. Fascinating. A remarkable example of a retrograde civilisation. At the peak, advanced beyond any of our capabilities and now operating at this primitive level which you saw. And it all began thousands of years ago when a glacial age reoccurred. This underground complex was developed for the women. The men remained above, and a male-female schism took place. A fascinating cultural development of a kind which never
MCCOY: I knew it was wrong. I shouldn't have done it.
KIRK: What's that?
MCCOY: I should have never reconnected his mouth.
KIRK: Well, we took the risk, Doctor.
SPOCK: As I was saying, a fascinating cultural development of the kind which hasn't been seen in ages. The last such occurrence took place on old Earth, when the Romans were warring with the ....
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5630.7. We have been assigned to convey the Medusans' ambassador to the Federation back to their home planet. While the thoughts of the Medusans are the most sublime in the galaxy, their physical appearance is exactly the opposite. They have evolved into a race of beings who are formless, so utterly hideous that the sight of a Medusan brings total madness to any human who sees one.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Mister Marvick. I am James Kirk, the Captain.
MARVICK: Captain, what are you doing here? You'll have to leave before the Medusan ambassador arrives.
KIRK: Yes, everything will be taken care of. This is Mister Spock, my First Officer. MARVICK; Oh, yes, you're the Vulcan. It's all right for you to remain, but you, Captain, and this other gentleman.
SCOTT: Montgomery Scott, Chief Engineer. Call me Scotty.
MARVICK: Mister Spock, do you have the visor? You must be sure to wear it. Humans who get even a glimpse of Medusans have gone insane.
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Marvick. I shall be wearing the visor.
KIRK: We mustn't keep the ambassador waiting. If you'll go with Mister Scott, I'm sure the two of you will have a great deal in common.
SCOTT: Aye, indeed. It's a rare privilege meeting one of the designers of the Enterprise.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to transporter control center on the planet.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. Inform the ambassador and Doctor Jones we're ready to beam them aboard. Kirk out. Are you sure this visor will work?
SPOCK: It has proved effective for Vulcans.
KIRK: It's your human half I'm worried about.
SPOCK: I shall endeavor to keep it under control.
KIRK: Inform me when transport is complete.
SPOCK: Welcome aboard, Ambassador Kollos. I am First Officer Spock.
MIRANDA: I'm Doctor Jones. The ambassador is most honored to meet you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain Kirk, we are ready.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to all decks.
UHURA: Channel open, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk to all ship's personnel. Clearance plans now in effect.

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): Clear passageways immediately. The Ambassador will be escorted to his quarters at once.
SPOCK: Doctor Jones, may I congratulate you on your assignment with Ambassador Kollos.
MIRANDA: Thank you, but the assignment's not yet definite. It will depend upon my ability to achieve a true mind-link with the Ambassador.
SPOCK: I'm sure you will find it a fascinating experience.
MIRANDA: I wasn't aware that anyone had ever achieved a mind-link with the Medusans.
SPOCK: No one ever has. I was referring to mind-links I had attempted with members of other species.
MIRANDA: I've heard, Mister Spock, that you turned down the assignment with the Ambassador.
SPOCK: I was unable to accept. My life is here.

[Ambassador's quarters]
SPOCK: Spock to Bridge. We have arrived at the Ambassador's quarters.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. Notify all hands to return to stations. All right, let's take her out. Warp factor two.
SULU: Warp factor two, sir.

[Ambassador's quarters]
SPOCK: I would appreciate an opportunity to exchange greetings with the Ambassador.
MIRANDA: I'm sure the Ambassador would be charmed.
SPOCK: I almost envy you your assignment.
MIRANDA: I see in your mind that you are tempted to take my place.
SPOCK: Not correct, Doctor, although I am aware of your mind attempting to contact mine. Were you born a telepath?
MIRANDA: Yes. That is why I had to study on Vulcan.
SPOCK: I understand. May I show you to your quarters?
MIRANDA: I think I'll stay here a bit. Ambassador Kollos often finds the process of transport somewhat unsettling.
SPOCK: I understand. Our ship's surgeon often makes the same complaint. Do call when you are ready.
MIRANDA: What is it he sees when he looks at you? I must know!

[Dining room]
KIRK: I can't understand why they let you go with Kollos.
MIRANDA: They, Captain?
KIRK: The male population of the Federation. Didn't someone try and talk you out of it?
MIRANDA: Now that you ask, yes.
KIRK: Well, I'm glad he didn't succeed. Otherwise, I wouldn't have met you.
MIRANDA: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: Tell me, Doctor Jones. Why isn't it dangerous for you to be with Kollos? Spock I can understand. Nothing makes an impression on him.
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Captain.
KIRK: You're very welcome, Mister Spock. But no human can look at Kollos, even with a visor, without going mad. How do you manage?
MIRANDA: I spent four years on Vulcan studying their mental diskipline.
MCCOY: You poor girl.
SPOCK: On the contrary, Doctor, I would say that Doctor Jones was indeed fortunate.
MCCOY: Vulcan is not my idea of fun.
MIRANDA: Joy can be many things, Doctor. On Vulcan, I learned to do things impossible to learn anywhere else.
KIRK: To read minds?
MIRANDA: How not to read them, Captain.
KIRK: I don't understand.
SPOCK: Doctor Jones was born a telepath, Captain.
KIRK: Oh.
MIRANDA: Vulcan was necessary to my sanity.
SPOCK: What most humans generally find impossible to understand is the need to shut out the bedlam of other people's thoughts and emotions.
JONES: Or of their own thoughts and emotions. I was just noticing your Vulcan IDIC, Mister Spock. Is it a reminder that, as a Vulcan, you can mind-link with the Medusans far better than I could?
KIRK: Well, I doubt that Mister Spock would don the most revered of all Vulcan symbols merely to annoy you, Doctor Jones.
SPOCK: As a matter of fact, I wear it this evening to honor you, Doctor.
MIRANDA: Indeed?
KIRK: Yes, very interesting. I might even say fascinating, but back to your mission. Doctor, do you feel any way may be found to employ Medusan navigators on starships? It would certainly solve many of our navigational problems.
MIRANDA: The key is the mind-link that I learned on Vulcan. Once we have learned the technique of forming a corporate intelligence with the Medusans, the designers, that's where Larry comes in, can work on adapting instruments.
MCCOY: I don't care how benevolent the Medusans are supposed to be. Isn't it suicidal to deal with something ugly enough to drive men mad? Why do you do it?
SPOCK: I see, Doctor McCoy, you still subscribe to the outmoded notion, promulgated by your ancient Greeks, that what is good must also be beautiful.
MARVICK: And the reverse, of course, that what is beautiful is automatically expected to be good.
KIRK: Yes, I think most of us are attracted by beauty and repelled by ugliness. One of the last of our prejudices. At the risk of sounding prejudiced, gentlemen, here's to beauty. To Miranda Jones, the loveliest human ever to grace a starship.
MCCOY: How can one so beautiful condemn herself to look upon ugliness the rest of her life? Will we allow it, gentlemen?
ALL: Certainly not.
MIRANDA: How can one so full of joy and the love of life as you, Doctor, condemn yourself to look upon disease and suffering for the rest of your life? Can we allow that, gentlemen?
MCCOY: To whatever you want the most, Miranda.
KIRK: Some more Antarean brandy? What is it?
MIRANDA: There's somebody nearby thinking of murder.
KIRK: In this room?
MIRANDA: It's gone now.
KIRK: Who is it? Can you tell?
MIRANDA: It isn't there anymore. Captain, would you mind if I said goodnight?
KIRK: Of course. Perhaps I'll see
SPOCK: I'll escort you to your quarters.
MIRANDA: Thank you, gentlemen. You make a choice impossible. Please, stay and enjoy yourselves. It was a delightful dinner.
KIRK: Sleep well, Miranda.
MCCOY: Are you sure you're well enough to find your way alone?
MIRANDA: Of course, Doctor McCoy. Please don't worry about me.
MCCOY: Now, where I come from, that's what we call a lady.
KIRK: Yes, she is something special.
MARVICK: Very special. I suggest you treat her accordingly. I've known Doctor Jones long enough to be aware of her remarkable gifts. Well, it's been a long day for me.
SCOTT: Larry, would you like to stop off at Engineering with me? I have a few things to check and a bottle of scotch says you can't handle the controls you designed.
MARVICK: Some other time.
SCOTT: Good night, gentlemen.
KIRK: Good night, Scotty. You dressed up for the occasion, Spock. Very impressive.
SPOCK: I genuinely intended to honor her, Captain. Good evening, gentlemen.
KIRK: Good evening. Sleep well.
KIRK: Bones, what's troubling you with the girl?
MCCOY: Well, she's not just another girl, Captain. Don't make that mistake.
KIRK: I didn't think that for a moment. What else?
MCCOY: I don't know what it is, exactly. She seems very vulnerable.
KIRK: We're all vulnerable in one way or another.
MCCOY: Of course. But there's something so very disturbing about her.
KIRK: Meaning she's quite a woman. I agree.
MCCOY: Good night, Jim.
KIRK: Good night, Bones.

[Dr. Jones' quarters]
MARVICK (voiceover): Miranda?
MIRANDA: Who is it?
MARVICK (voiceover): Larry. I've got to talk to you.
MIRANDA: It's late.
MARVICK (voiceover): Please, Miranda, it's important.
MIRANDA: All right. Come in, then.
MARVICK: I thought the dinner was never going to end.
MIRANDA: I rather enjoyed it.
MARVICK: Yes, I know you did. I didn't. You were so far away.
MIRANDA: I'll be further away than that soon.
MARVICK: Please don't talk of that. There's so little time. Please, Miranda, don't go with Kollos.
MIRANDA: Now, we've been over this time and time again.
MARVICK: Don't I know it. I've asked you in restaurants, in the laboratory, on one knee, on both knees. Miranda, how can you do this?
MIRANDA: Larry, please, try to understand.
MARVICK: I understand that you're a woman and that I'm a man, one of your own kind, and that Kollos will never be able to give you anything like this. Why did I ever meet you?
MIRANDA: I've been honest with you. I simply cannot love you the way you want me to.
MARVICK: Miranda.
MIRANDA: And I'm going away with Kollos. That's final. I think you'd better leave now.
MIRANDA: So it's you! I didn't know that it was you before. Who is it you want to kill, Larry? Is it me? You mustn't keep this to yourself. I want to help you.
MARVICK: So now you want to help me. Now I know what a mere human male has to do to get a reaction out of you. Make you think he's a patient. The great psychologist. Why don't you try being a woman for a change?

[Corridor]
KIRK: Miranda!

[Engineering]
MARVICK: Where's Mister Scott?

[Corridor]
KIRK: Miranda?

[Kollos' quarters]
KIRK (voiceover): Miranda!

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Ah, there, Marvick. So you couldn't resist a wee wager.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Has the Ambassador been hurt?
MIRANDA: No harm has come to the Ambassador, Captain.
KIRK: Who could have done such a thing?
MIRANDA: Larry Marvick.
KIRK: Larry Marvick? Why?
SPOCK: Do you know whether he saw the Medusan?
MIRANDA: Yes, he did.
SPOCK: Then insanity will surely be the result, Captain. Dangerous insanity.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: The controls are all yours, and the bottle of scotch'll be in your room this evening if you can handle 'em.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain Kirk to all ship personnel. Red Alert. An attempt was made to murder Ambassador Kollos. The murderer is dangerously insane. He is Lawrence Marvick. Be on the watch for him. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Explain, Lieutenant Sulu.
SULU: I don't believe this myself, Captain, but we're traveling at warp factor eight point five.
CHEKOV: And accelerating.
KIRK: Get engineering, Uhura.
UHURA: They don't answer, Captain.
SULU: Warp factor nine and accelerating.
KIRK: Can't you disengage power from there, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Trying, Captain. Mister Chekov, your assistance, please.
UHURA: Captain, I have engineering now.
KIRK: Put them on intercom.
MARVICK (voiceover): We mustn't sleep! They come in your dreams! That's the worst! They suffocate in your dreams! We're making it out of here!
KIRK: Security to engineering.
MIRANDA: I'll go with you.
KIRK: No.
MIRANDA: I must. I can reach his mind.

[Engineering]
MARVICK: We'll be safe at the boundaries of the universe! We'll be safe!
KIRK: Scotty, where are we?
SCOTT: I don't know!
MARVICK: Beyond the boundaries of the galaxy. We made it. We're safe. We're safe, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Bones.
MARVICK: Oh, no. No! No, Captain. We mustn't sleep. No! No! No, they come in your dreams. That's the worst. They suffocate in your dreams. No!
KIRK: All right. All right.
MARVICK: No.
KIRK: We'll take you to a place to hide.
MARVICK: No. KIRK; Come on. We must stay here with the controls. Ready to speed. Speed! Speed to the next galaxy. Miranda? Miranda, you're here. With me.
MIRANDA: Yes, Larry. I'm here.
MARVICK: I didn't lose you. Oh, my beautiful love, I thought I'd lost you.
MIRANDA: I am here, Larry. No. I can see what he sees. No, don't. Don't think of it!
MARVICK: Liar! Liar! Deceiver! You're not alone! You brought it with you. It's here. It's here. You brought it with you! Liar! Liar! Liar! Don't love her! Don't love her! She'll kill you if you love her! I love you, Miranda.
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5630.8. As a result of Larry Marvick's insane fears, the Enterprise lies derelict in uncharted space. We have no way to determine our position in relation to the galaxy. We are in a completely unknown void.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Where are we?
SPOCK: We are evidently far outside our own galaxy, judging from the lack of traceable reference points. When we exceeded warp speed factor nine point five, we apparently entered a space-time continuum.
MCCOY: I have the autopsy report on Marvick. Heart action stopped, cause unknown. Respiration stopped, cause unknown. Brain activity stopped, cause. Shall I go on?
KIRK: You mean he just simply died.
MCCOY: I mean he evidently could not live with what he saw.
KIRK: Or what he felt. Damage report, Scotty?
SCOTT: We need some repairs, sir, but the ship is intact.
KIRK: Position report, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Impossible to calculate. We lack data to analyze. Our instruments appear to be functioning normally, but what they tell us makes no sense. Our records are clear up to the point at which we left our galaxy.
KIRK: Then we should be able to navigate back.
SPOCK: Unfortunately, we lack reference points on which to plot a return course. We experienced extreme sensory distortion, and we shall do so again if we attempt to use warp speed. And we cannot re-cross the barrier using sub light speed.
CHEKOV: A madman got us into this, and it's beginning to look as if only a madman can get us out.
SPOCK: An entertaining suggestion, Mister Chekov, but not very helpful. KIRK; There is someone else aboard who might be able to help us navigate. The Medusans have developed interstellar navigation to a fine art. Could Kollos function despite the sensory distortion?
SPOCK: Very possibly. The Medusan sensory system is radically different from ours. Perhaps for the purpose of this emergency I might become Kollos.
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK: A fusion. A mind-link to create a double entity. Each of us would enjoy the knowledge and sensory capabilities of both. We will function as one being.
KIRK: Hazards?
SPOCK: If the link is successful there will be a tendency to lose separate identity. A necessary risk. Of course, Doctor Jones will not wish to give me permission to accomplish the mind-link.
MCCOY: I don't think she'll want anyone to intrude in the kind of rapport she has with Kollos.
SPOCK: Doctor Jones has shown reluctance every time I've asked to converse with Kollos. In some ways, she is still most human, Captain, particularly in the depth of her jealousy.
KIRK: I could confine her to quarters.
SPOCK: Not sufficient. Her telepathic powers are formidable. If it is at all possible, her mind must be so engaged that no thought of what I am doing shall intrude.
KIRK: I think that could be arranged.

[Conservatory]
KIRK: I may be sentimental, but this is my favorite place. Earth.
MIRANDA: I've never been to Earth. What lovely flowers. May I touch them?
KIRK: Certainly.
MIRANDA: They have no scent.
KIRK: Try these.
KIRK: Let me see. It's just a thorn. I was hoping to make you forget about this today.
MIRANDA: It doesn't hurt anymore.
KIRK: You mustn't blame yourself because Marvick loved you.
MIRANDA: I didn't want his love. I couldn't return it.
KIRK: But someday, you will want human love and companionship.
MIRANDA: Shall I tell you what human companionship means to me? A struggle, a defense against the emotions of others. At times, the emotions burst in on me. Hatred, desire, envy, pity. Pity is the worst of all. I agree with the Vulcans. Violent emotion is a kind of insanity.
KIRK: Are you willing to spend the rest of your life with the Medusans in order to avoid human emotion?
MIRANDA: Perhaps.
KIRK: A meeting of minds is all very well, but what about love, Miranda? You're young, attractive and human. Sooner or later, no matter how beautiful their minds are, you're going to yearn for someone who looks like yourself, someone who isn't ugly.
MIRANDA: Ugly. What is ugly? Who is to say whether Kollos is too ugly to bear or too beautiful to bear?
KIRK: Miranda, I meant no insult. Please. Here we are among the roses. A very romantic setting. I wish there were moonlight, too. Moonlight would suit you very well.
MIRANDA: I see you're a very complicated man.
MIRANDA: Kollos, no. You mustn't let him!
KIRK: Miranda, don't.
MIRANDA: Let me go. You have no idea what a dangerous thing Spock is planning. We must stop him! Let me go!

[Corridor]
SPOCK: The Enterprise is at stake. It is not possible for you to be involved.
MIRANDA: Why? I've already committed myself to mind-link when Kollos and I reach the Medusan vessel. Why put yourself in jeopardy?
SPOCK: This is not a duty that you can assume. I am aware of the fact that your telepathic competence might be superior to mine, but there's a more important factor. The object is to pilot this ship. That is something you cannot do.
MIRANDA: Then teach me to operate the ship. I can memorize instantly.
MCCOY: Now wait a minute. I realize that you can do almost anything a sighted person can do, but you can't pilot a starship.
KIRK: What?
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Miranda, but you must be realistic. You are blind, and there are some things you simply cannot do.
SPOCK: Evidently a highly sophisticated sensor web. My compliments to you, and to your dressmaker.
KIRK: Yes, of course. It's the only reasonable explanation. You can't see and Kollos can't hurt you.
SPOCK: An elegant solution. but I fail to understand why you apparently try to conceal your blindness, Doctor Jones.
KIRK: I think I understand. You said it. Pity is the worst of all.
MIRANDA: Pity, which I hate. Do you think you can gather more information with your eyes than I can with my sensors? I could play tennis with you, Captain Kirk. I might even beat you. I am standing exactly one meter, four centimeters from the door. Can you judge distance that accurately? I can even tell you how fast your heart is beating.
KIRK: No, that won't be necessary. Mister Spock will make the mind-link. No other decision is possible.
MIRANDA: No. I won't let you.
MCCOY: Please. Do not fight us like this, Doctor Jones. I appeal to you as a colleague. Do not oppose us.
MIRANDA: No.
KIRK: If we can't persuade you, there is someone who can. You'll have to take this up with Kollos. For your own sake.
KIRK: Bones, why hadn't you told me?
MCCOY: She would have told you herself if she had wanted you to know. I respect her privacy.
KIRK: Yes, there's a great deal to respect about that lady.
MIRANDA: It seems I have no choice but to obey you.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplementary. Our one chance to return to our own galaxy is dependent upon the navigational skills of the Medusan ambassador. With that end in view, Kollos has been brought to the bridge and placed behind a protective shield.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: This is delightful. I know you. All of you. James Kirk, Captain and friend for many years. And Leonard McCoy, also of long acquaintance. And Uhura, whose name means freedom. She walks in beauty, like the night.
MCCOY: That's not Spock.
SPOCK: Are you surprised to find that I've read Byron, Doctor?
MCCOY: That's Spock!
KIRK: Am I addressing the Ambassador?
SPOCK: In part. That is, part of us is known to you as Kollos. Ah, Miranda. There you are. O brave new world, that has such creatures in it.
MIRANDA: 'Tis new to thee.
SPOCK: My world is next for us. Captain Kirk, I speak for all of us you call Medusans. I am sorry for the trouble I've brought to your ship.
KIRK: We don't hold you to blame for what happened, and thank you now for your help.
SPOCK: And now to the business at hand. With your permission, Captain.
KIRK: Yes. Mister Sulu, release the helm to Mister Spock.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Co-ordination is completed.
KIRK: Then go ahead, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Warp one in six seconds. Five, four, three, two, one, zero.
SPOCK: Position report, please, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Our position? Our position is so close to the point where we entered the void, the difference isn't worth mentioning. Bull's-eye, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Chekov. Maneuver completed, Captain.
KIRK: Take over, Mister Sulu. Thank you, Ambassador. Mister Chekov, plot a new course.
CHEKOV: The new headings will be plotted in a minute, sir.
SPOCK: How compact your bodies are. And what a variety of senses you have. This thing you call language though, most remarkable. You depend on it for so very much. But is any one of you really its master? But most of all, the aloneness. You are so alone. You live out your lives in this shell of flesh. Self-contained, separate. How lonely you are. How terribly lonely.
KIRK: Ambassador, you must dissolve the link.
SPOCK: So soon?
KIRK: There must be no delay.
SPOCK: You're a wise Captain.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Spock! Don't look! Cover your eyes!
KIRK: Don't move!
MCCOY: But, Jim.
KIRK: No one is to move. Spock? Are you all right? KIRK; Spock? It's all right. You're safe with us now.
MCCOY: He's hardly breathing. Help me get him to Sickbay.

[Outside Sickbay]
MCCOY: Unless Miranda can look down into his mind and turn it outward to us, we will lose Spock.
KIRK: Vulcan mind techniques. They seem so untrustworthy now that Spock's life is at stake.
MCCOY: Her knowledge of them may be the only thing that could save Spock's sanity, perhaps even his life.
KIRK: But does she want to? She's been in there so long.
MCCOY: There's nothing else to be done.
KIRK: She tried to help Marvick. Marvick is dead.
MCCOY: That's different. Marvick loved her.
KIRK: And Spock is her rival. Is that any better? Even Spock felt the violence of her jealousy.
MCCOY: But they weren't rivals in love. Jim, you shouldn't go in there.
KIRK: Whatever happens, Bones, don't interfere.

[Sickbay]
MIRANDA: Who is it? Doctor McCoy? Who's there?
KIRK: Captain Kirk.
MIRANDA: I have no news for you, Captain.
KIRK: No change?
MIRANDA: Only that his life processes are ebbing.
KIRK: What are you doing about it?
MIRANDA: Why, what I can, of course.
KIRK: Which doesn't seem to be much.
MIRANDA: No doubt you think I can wake him with a kiss.
KIRK: It's worth a try, isn't it? After all, he's not a machine.
MIRANDA: But he is a Vulcan.
KIRK: Only half. The other half is human. Far more human than you, apparently.
MIRANDA: Face reality, Captain. His mind has gone down almost too far even for me to reach!
KIRK: If you don't reach him soon, he'll die. But that's what you want, isn't it?
MIRANDA: That's a lie!
KIRK: Oh yes? You want him to die. What did you do to him on the Bridge? Did you make him forget to put the visor over his eyes?
MIRANDA: You're insane!
KIRK: Yes, you know your rival, don't you? You couldn't keep him from making a mind-link with Kollos, something you couldn't do yourself! With my words, I'll make you hear such ugliness as Spock saw when he looked at Kollos with his naked eyes! The ugliness is within you!
MIRANDA: That's a lie! Liar!
KIRK: Your desire to see Kollos is madness! You can never see him. Never. But Spock saw Kollos, and for that he must die.
MIRANDA: Sadistic, filthy liar!
KIRK: The smell of hatred, the stench of jealousy permeates you. Why don't you strangle him while he lies there?
MIRANDA: Don't say anymore, please!
KIRK: Kollos knows what's in your heart. You can lie to yourself, but you can't lie to Kollos.
MIRANDA: Please go away!

[Outside Sickbay]
MCCOY: What'd you say to her?
KIRK: Maybe too much.
MCCOY: What's she doing in there?
KIRK: You may be right, Bones. Maybe I shouldn't have gone in. She was blind, really blind. Really in the dark. And if he dies. If he dies, how do I know that I didn't kill him? How do I know that she can stand to hear the truth?

[Sickbay]
MIRANDA: Now, Spock, this is to the death. Or to life for both of us.

[Doctor's Office]
KIRK: Spock.
MCCOY: You look like you've paid a visit to the devil himself.
KIRK: Miranda.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: You have what you wanted most.
MIRANDA: I am one with Kollos.
MCCOY: Well, I'm truly sorry that you're leaving. Goodbye.
MIRANDA: We come to the end of an eventful trip, Captain.
KIRK: I didn't think you'd even talk to me.
MIRANDA: Well, I have you to thank for my future. Your words enabled me to see.
KIRK: Miranda, good luck, Health. I have something for you.
MIRANDA: I suppose it has thorns.
KIRK: I never met a rose that didn't.
MIRANDA: I know now the great joy you felt when you joined minds with Kollos.
SPOCK: I rejoice in your knowledge and in your achievement.
MIRANDA: I understand, Mister Spock. The glory of creation is in its infinite diversity.
SPOCK: And the ways our differences combine to create meaning and beauty.
MIRANDA: Peace and long life, Spock.
SPOCK: Live long and prosper, Miranda.
KIRK: Peace.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5121.5, orbiting the second planet in the Minarian star system. This star has long given evidence of entering a nova phase, and six months ago, a research station was established to make close-up studies of the star as its end approaches. Minara is now entering a critical period, and the Enterprise has been ordered to evacuate the station before the planet becomes uninhabitable. Yet our attempts to contact the station's personnel have been, so far, unsuccessful.

[Research station]
SPOCK: Dust. Apparently these instruments have not been recently used.
KIRK: Record tape. Maybe it'll tell us something about the personnel that lived here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, please.
KIRK: Kirk here. What is it, Enterprise?
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, sir.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Our instruments have picked up a gigantic solar flare

[Research station]
SCOTT (voiceover): With very high levels of cosmic rays accompanying it.
KIRK: How bad?
SCOTT (voiceover): An enormous one.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Our sensors indicate the cosmic ray concentration measures three point five one on the Ritter scale. That'll play the very devil with the crew, as well as the ship.

[Research station]
SPOCK: At that rate, it will take exactly seventy four point one solar hours for the storm to pass.
KIRK: Get that ship out of here. Stay at minimum distance for absolute safety.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir. We'll beam you up in
KIRK (voiceover): Negative. We're staying here. The atmosphere will protect us.

[Research station]
KIRK: Get that ship out of here, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Very well, sir. Scott out.
KIRK: Mister Spock, what about that tape?
SPOCK: Remember, Captain, what we see on this tape happened approximately three months ago.
LINKE (screen): I don't think I can stand another week in this godforsaken place.
OZABA (screen): In his hand are the deep places of the earth. Psalm ninety five, verse four. Looks like he was listening.
LINKE (screen): Who's out there?
MCCOY: What happened to them?
KIRK: Where's does that sound coming from? Spock, can you pinpoint it?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. It doesn't register.
KIRK: Bones! Spock!

[Huge room]
KIRK: Spock. Bones. Where are we?
SPOCK: Exactly one two one point three two meters beneath the planet surface, Captain.
KIRK: How did we get here?
SPOCK: Residual energy readings indicate we were beamed here by a matter-energy scrambler, similar to our own transporter mechanism.
MCCOY: That's a nasty cut, Jim. Does it hurt?
KIRK: No.
SPOCK: Captain, picking up a life-form reading bearing four two mark seven.
KIRK: One of the missing scientists?
SPOCK: Negative. Although humanoid, it is definitely not Homo Sapiens.
KIRK: Identification?
SPOCK: Impossible. I can make no exact identification other than it being humanoid.
KIRK: Let's find out. Phasers on stun.
SPOCK: Approaching the life-form, Captain.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: Still undistinguishable.
KIRK: Be careful.
MCCOY: She seems harmless enough.
SPOCK: The sand-bats of Manark Four appear to be inanimate rock crystals, Doctor, until they attack.
KIRK: We're not going to hurt you. Is this your home? Do you live here? What about it, Spock? Analysis.
SPOCK: From what we know of the specific gravity and other environmental factors of this planet, a life-form such as hers could not evolve here.
KIRK: Are you responsible for bringing us here? Don't be afraid. Bones, what's wrong with her?
MCCOY: She's a mute, Jim. No vocal cords, not even vestigals. And I don't think it's a pathological condition.
KIRK: Explain.
MCCOY: She appears to be perfectly healthy. As for the other, her lack of vocal cords could be physiologically normal for her species, whatever that is.
KIRK: A race of mutes, like the civilisation on Gamma Vertis Four.
MCCOY: That's my observation, for whatever it's worth.
KIRK: Without speech, how's she going to be able to understand us? Unless she's a telepath.
SPOCK: An unlikely possibility, Captain, since over ninety eight percent of the known telepathic species send thoughts as well as receive them. She's made no attempt to contact our minds.
MCCOY: We can't keep referring to her as she, as if she weren't here.
KIRK: Do you have any ideas?
MCCOY: Well, I don't know about you, but I'm going to call her Gem.
SPOCK: Gem, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, that's better than 'Hey, you.'
KIRK: I want to know why we're here. I want to know what's going on. And she knows.
KIRK: I'm Captain
THANN: We are aware of your identity, Captain.
KIRK: Who are you? Why did you bring us here?
LAL: We are Vians. Do not interfere.
KIRK: What do you intend to do with us?
THANN: Delay us no longer.
KIRK: We come Since you already know who we are, you must also know that we come in peace. Our prime directive specifically prohibits us from any interference.)
KIRK: I can't seem to stand up.
MCCOY: Don't fight the force field. There's something about it that upsets the body metabolism.
LAL: Not quite, Doctor. The field draws its energy from your bodies. The more you resist, the stronger the force field becomes. Sufficient.
KIRK: Mister Spock there must be an exit other than the one we just saw.
SPOCK: Correct, Captain.
MCCOY: Do you feel all right, Jim?
KIRK: Don't worry about me. They may have hurt her.
KIRK: Did they hurt you?
KIRK: The pain is gone. She touched my head, and the pain is gone.
MCCOY: The wound is completely healed. It fits, Jim. She must be an empath. Her nervous system is so sensitive, highly responsive that she can actually feel our emotional and physical reactions. They become part of her.
KIRK: Thank you.
SPOCK: Captain, in that direction, my tricorder is now picking up a substantial collection of objects.
KIRK: Details.
SPOCK: Electronically sophisticated devices. I fail to understand why my tricorder previously gave no indication of them being out there.
KIRK: Well they're there now. Let's go check them out. Staying here alone could be dangerous. Come with us.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: Look at this stuff.
KIRK: Bones Spock, come here.
MCCOY: Jim, Spock.
LAL: We are on schedule. Some further simple tests are necessary.
MCCOY: We've seen the results of some of your tests.
KIRK: I found our missing men. Dead. Another one of your experiments?
LAL: You're wrong. Their own imperfections killed them. They were not fit subjects. Come. Time is short.
KIRK: Yes. Your time is running out. This sun is about to nova. When it does, it'll destroy you, this planet, and this insane torture chamber.
KIRK: Let's get out of here.
SPOCK: Readings indicate the passage to the surface lies in this direction.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Out of range. Readings, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Research station six kilometers in that direction, Captain.
KIRK: Let's get there as fast as we can. If the Enterprise has a search party, it'll be there.
KIRK: Spock! Much further?
SPOCK: Just ahead.
MCCOY: Hey, Jim, look. Scotty and a search party.
KIRK: Scotty!
MCCOY: Scotty!
KIRK: Stay there! Come on!
MCCOY: We're coming!
KIRK: Keep going.
LAL: Their will to survive is great.
THANN: They love life greatly to struggle so.
LAL: The prime ingredient.

[Outside Research station]
MCCOY: Where'd they go?
SPOCK: I believe they were never actually present, Doctor. It was a mirage.
MCCOY: Where's Kirk?

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Jim.
KIRK: What are you doing here? Where's Scotty?
SPOCK: Captain, it was a mirage.
THANN: Captain Kirk! We have decided that one specimen will be sufficient. You will come with us.
KIRK: What about the others?
LAL: We've no interest in them. They may go.
KIRK: Very well.
MCCOY: You can't go back there. You'll end up like the other two.
SPOCK: Captain, I request permission to be allowed
KIRK: Denied.
MCCOY: But, Captain
KIRK: You have your orders.
KIRK: What happened to my men?
LAL: They are safe.
KIRK: One specimen, you said. One specimen! What happened to my men?
THANN: Indeed, the prime ingredient.
KIRK: Where are they? Tell me! You said you'd let them go!

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Sulu, will you give us an estimate of how much longer we'll have until those solar flares will subside?
SULU: Aye, sir. Readings now indicate two point seven two one on the Ritter scale. At the present rate of decrease, we'll have to wait at least seventeen hours more before we can even attempt to enter orbit.
SCOTT: Aye. Well, as long as we're stuck out here, we might as well relax until the storm passes.
SULU: The storm's already lasted four hours longer than we've anticipated. Do you suppose our landing party could be in any danger?
SCOTT: That's not likely. The planet's atmosphere will give them ample protection. And if I know Captain Kirk, he'll be more worried about us than we are about him.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: What is it you want to know?
LAL: We seek no information as you mean. Your civilisation is yet too immature to have knowledge valuable to us.
KIRK: You don't need any knowledge from us, yet you're willing to kill for it. Is that what happened to Linke and Ozaba?
THANN: We did not kill them. Their own fears killed them.
KIRK: Well, what did you expect from them? And what do you want from me?
LAL: We've already observed the intensity of your passions and gaged your capacity to love others. Now we want you to reveal to us your courage and strength of will.
KIRK: Why? What is it you hope to prove? If my death is to have any meaning, at least tell me what I'm dying for.
THANN: If you live, you will have your answer.

[Bed area]
MCCOY: Come on, Spock, the passageway was there before. It's got to be there.
SPOCK: Doctor, I'm unable to lock in on the previous readings. I can find no exit out of here.
MCCOY: Captain! Jim, what is it? What have they done to you?
MCCOY: Help him. Don't be afraid to help him.
MCCOY: Jim. You lie still. I'll check her out right away.
KIRK: Will she live?
MCCOY: She seems fine now.
KIRK: Can you explain what happened?
MCCOY: Complete empathy. She must be a totally functional empath. Her nervous system actually connected to yours to counteract the worst of your symptoms and with her strength, she virtually sustained your body's physiological reactions.
KIRK: She weakened. I could feel it. Is her life in danger?
MCCOY: It's impossible to say yet, but supplying your body with life support did drain her.
SPOCK: Her withdrawal seemed to suggest the fear of death, Doctor. Only your urging her on caused her to continue.
MCCOY: That's true. Fear would naturally be her first reaction. Perhaps she doesn't know our captain well enough yet to offer up her life for him.
KIRK: Could the strain really have killed her?
MCCOY: Oh yes. However, I'd assume that her instinct for self-preservation would take over to prevent it. How do you feel?
KIRK: I'm tired.
SPOCK: Can you recall what happened, Captain?
KIRK: I remember the laboratory, and they wanted to know something. But I, I can't remember.
MCCOY: Take it easy.
KIRK: What's the matter with me?
MCCOY: You have all the symptoms of the bends. Nitrogen bubbles in your blood caused the pain. Now how would one get the bends down here?
KIRK: You'll have to ask the Vians. Will I live?
MCCOY: Well, you could use some time in a decompression chamber. But otherwise, I'd say your recovery is about miraculous. I wish I could take the credit for it, but she did the work.
SPOCK: Captain, I noted that a light preceded you at the moment you were returned here from the Vian's laboratory.
MCCOY: Spock, why do you have to get so analytical at a time like
KIRK: No, he's right. Continue.
SPOCK: I conclude such a light is an energy transfer point linking this device to the power source.
KIRK: Can you tap into it?
SPOCK: If I can determine the frequency at which this device operates, I might be able to cause it to function for us.
KIRK: And get us out of here the same way we were brought in.
SPOCK: I would say so.
KIRK: Then I would say proceed.
LAL: You are called Captain. You are responsible for the lives of your crew. Is this correct?
KIRK: It is.
THANN: We find it necessary to have the co-operation of one of your men in our efforts.
KIRK: We will not co-operate.
LAL: When we resume our interrogations, you will decide which of your men we shall use. It is essential. There is an eighty seven percent chance that the doctor will die. And while Commander Spock's life is not in danger, the possibility is ninety three percent that he will suffer brain damage, resulting in permanent insanity.
KIRK: How's it coming, Spock?
SPOCK: I do not know, Captain. I'm beginning to understand its operating principles, but that is all.
MCCOY: Spock, It won't be long before the Vians come back. You better find out how that thing works and soon.
KIRK: Take it easy, Bones.
MCCOY: Men weren't intended to live this far underground. It's just not natural.
KIRK: And space travel is?
SPOCK: Some men spend the majority of their lives in mines beneath the surface.
MCCOY: I'm a doctor, not a coal miner.
SPOCK: I've recorded my principles and theories on the tricorder, Doctor. Should the Vians return, there is sufficient data for you and the captain to complete the adjustments.
MCCOY: I'm not a mechanic. I couldn't get that thing to work no matter how many notes you left.
SPOCK: Possibly not, but you and the captain together will be able to do so.
MCCOY: In any case, Spock, you're the logical one to leave with the captain.
KIRK: The decision's mine. If there are any decisions to be made, I'll make them. If and when it becomes necessary.
KIRK: I don't need any
MCCOY: I'm still Chief Medical Officer of the Enterprise. I'll tell you what you need and when you need it. Would you rather have the bends? That's it. Just lie down and relax.
SPOCK: How long will he be asleep, Doctor?
MCCOY: Between the emotional strain and that attack of bends, he's in pretty bad shape.
SPOCK: I'm not criticizing your action, Doctor. On the contrary, I'm quite grateful for it. The captain will be spared the strain of making so difficult a decision. You have simplified the situation considerably.
MCCOY: How?
SPOCK: While the captain is asleep, I am in command. When the Vians return, I shall go with them.
MCCOY: You mean, if I hadn't given him that shot
SPOCK: Precisely. The choice would have been the captain's. Now it is mine.
SPOCK: Your action is highly unethical. My decision stands.
MCCOY: Not this time, Spock.
MCCOY: The choice has been made. You stay here with my friends. They'll take care of you. Do you understand?
THANN: Come, then.

[Laboratory]
LAL: Doctor, please understand that if there was any other way to accomplish our purpose
MCCOY: Get on with it.

[Bed area]
KIRK: Why did you let him do it?
SPOCK: I was convinced in the same way you were, Captain. By the good doctor's hypo.
KIRK: Anything?
SPOCK: Hmm. A most unusual device. It is a control unit, but not a control mechanism. In fact, it is not a mechanical device.
KIRK: What exactly is it?
SPOCK: This control is attuned to one electrical pattern of energy, the pattern produced by the mental impulses of the person who possesses it. It is activated solely by mental commands.
KIRK: Can you adapt it, re-attune it to fit our brain pattern?
SPOCK: I shall attempt to do so. However, it is not possible to adjust the control to fit more than one pattern at a time. I am, of course, most familiar with my own pattern. Therefore, with your permission, I
KIRK: Do whatever you have to to make it work, Spock. What disturbs me is why the Vians let us keep it.
SPOCK: Fascinating. They must have known we were capable of comprehending this control and making use of it.
KIRK: And that we would use it to escape.
SPOCK: The only logical assumption is that they wish to let us go.
KIRK: And they keep McCoy.
SPOCK: That is evidently their intention, Captain.
KIRK: Somehow, you're the crux, the focal point of all this. Even before we got here, she was a prisoner. They didn't hurt her, they didn't even threaten her.
SPOCK: Indeed, the facts would indicate that she's essential to their purpose.
KIRK: Yes, there is a purpose, but what is it? Has all the pain and terror happened, or been made to happen for you?
SPOCK: Completed, Captain. The adjustments are delicate. They may not survive more than even one use. However, there should be sufficient energy to transfer us to the Enterprise.
KIRK: Will it take us to McCoy?
SPOCK: If you so desire.
KIRK: The best defense is a strong offense, and I intend to start offending right now. Aim for the lab.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: Bones. Spock. Get him down. His wrists. His pulse is almost gone. How is he?
SPOCK: Severe heart damage. Signs of congestion in both lungs. Evidence of massive circulatory collapse.
MCCOY: I
KIRK: Don't talk. Don't speak. Take it easy until we get you back to the ship. What is it? What's the matter?
SPOCK: He's dying, Jim. We can make him comfortable, but that is all.
KIRK: You don't know. You're not a doctor.
SPOCK: Internal injuries. Bleeding in the chest and abdomen. Hemorrhage of the spleen and liver. Seventy percent kidney failure.
MCCOY: He's right, Jim. Being a doctor has its drawbacks. I always wondered why I Thanks.
KIRK: How long?
SPOCK: It could happen anytime.
MCCOY: The correct medical phrase, ay, Spock? You've got a a good bedside manner, Spock.
KIRK: Can't we do something?
SPOCK: I'm afraid not.
KIRK: Gem might be able to help him, the way she helped me, but could his nearness to death also kill her?
SPOCK: Uncertain, Captain. Dr. McCoy's analysis of her reaction assumes that her instinct for self-preservation would prevent it. However, we cannot be positive.
KIRK: If she could just strengthen him and keep him from sinking further into death, we might be able to save him.
LAL: No interference will be permitted.
KIRK: She can save his life. Let us help her to go to him.
LAL: She must not be urged or forced to take action.
THANN: All must proceed without interference.
LAL: The purpose that brought us together
KIRK: What purpose can all this serve, except the fulfillment of some need of yours?
LAL: We have but one need left in life, and that is to see the completion of the final moment of our test.
THANN: Be patient.
KIRK: Patient? Our friend is dying.
THANN: Perhaps.
SPOCK: What purpose can be served by the death of our friend, except to bring you pleasure? Surely beings as advanced as yourselves know that your star system will soon be extinct. Your sun will nova.
THANN: We know.
SPOCK: Then you also know that the millions of inhabitants on its planets are doomed.
LAL: That is why we are here.
KIRK: This arena of death that you have devised for your pleasure. Will it prevent this catastrophe?
LAL: No, it will not, but it may save Gem's planet. Of all the planets of Minara, we have the power to transport the inhabitants of only one to safety.
THANN: If Gem's planet is the one that will be saved, we must make certain beyond any doubt whatsoever they are worthy of survival.
KIRK: How will the death of our friend serve this purpose?
LAL: His death will not serve it, but her willingness to give her life for him will. You were her teachers.
KIRK: We were? What could she learn from us?
LAL: Your will to survive. Your love of life. Your passion to know. They are recorded in her being.
THANN: Her planet will be fortunate.
LAL: Each of you is willing to give his life for the others. We must now find out whether that instinct has been transmitted to Gem.
THANN: Time grows short.
SPOCK: You were correct, Captain. Everything that has occurred here has been caused to happen by them. This has all been a great laboratory, and we have been the subjects of the test.
THANN: No. We only created the circumstances. That was necessary.
LAL: Your actions were spontaneous. Everything that is truest and best in all species of beings has been revealed by you. Those are the qualities that make a civilisation worthy to survive.
THANN: Behold. That is most significant. An instinct new to the essence of her being is generating.
LAL: Compassion for another is becoming part of her functioning life system.
THANN: She is afraid.
LAL: She's saving herself. She does not yet have the instinct to save her people.
THANN: We have failed?
LAL: No. No, not yet.
SPOCK: Captain, Dr. McCoy's life is not solely dependent on Gem. The Vians too must be capable of saving his life.
THANN: True.
KIRK: Then you cannot let him die.
LAL: His death is not important. We must wait to see whether her instinct for self-sacrifice has become stronger than her instinct for self-preservation.
MCCOY: Don't touch me. Stay away. Jim. Spock. Are you here?
KIRK: Yes, Bones.
MCCOY: Don't let her touch me. She'll die. Jim, I can't destroy life, even if it's to save my own. I can't. You know that. I can't let you do it.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: The intensity of emotion is draining us and building up the force field.
KIRK: Yes, I know.
SPOCK: It draws its energy from us, Captain. In spite of what we see, all emotion must be suppressed. That might weaken the field.
KIRK: I'll try.
KIRK: Yes.
KIRK: Spock.
LAL: You cannot use our powers to change what is happening.
KIRK: You must save the life of our friend.
LAL: No. We will not. Her instinct must be developed to the fullest. The test must be complete.
SPOCK: It is complete. Gem has earned the right of survival for her planet. She offered her life.
LAL: To offer is not proof enough.
KIRK: If death is all you understand, here are four lives for you.
KIRK: We will not leave our friend. You've lost the capacity to feel the emotions you brought Gem here to experience. You don't understand what it is to live. Love and compassion are dead in you. You're nothing but intellect.
LAL: Farewell.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Strange.
SPOCK: What is puzzling you, Captain?
KIRK: I'm not puzzled, Mister Spock. I am awed.
MCCOY: I'm with you, Captain. She awed me.
KIRK: No, no. I wasn't thinking of Gem. I was thinking of that fantastic element of chance that out in limitless space we should come together with Gem.
SPOCK: Captain, the element of chance can virtually be eliminated by a civilisation as advanced as the Vians.
SCOTT: Not to dispute your computer, Mister Spock, but from little what you've told me, I would say she was a pearl of great price.
KIRK: What, Scott?
SCOTT: Do you not know the story of the merchant? The merchant, who when he found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
KIRK: Yes, she was all that. And whether the Vians bought her or found her makes little difference. She was of great value.
MCCOY: Well, personally, I find it fascinating that with all their scientific knowledge and advances, that it was good old-fashioned human emotion that they valued the most.
SCOTT: Perhaps the Vulcans should hear about this.
KIRK: Mister Spock, can you be prevailed upon to bring them the news?
SPOCK: Possibly, Captain. I shall certainly give the thought all the consideration it is due.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, ahead warp factor two.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Warp factor two.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5693.2. The Enterprise is approaching the last reported position of the star ship Defiant, which vanished without trace three weeks ago. We are in unsurveyed territory.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, we are registering very curious readings from all sensors.
KIRK: Specify.
SPOCK: I cannot. According to our instruments, space itself is literally breaking up. There is no known phenomenon which would account for these readings.
KIRK: What about sensor failure?
SPOCK: Negative. I have run a complete check on all systems.
SCOTT: Captain. We're losing power in the warp engines.
KIRK: How bad is it?
SCOTT: We can barely read it, but I don't like the looks of it. And I cannot find out the cause.
CHEKOV: Captain. Visual detection of an object dead ahead.
KIRK: How about it, Spock?
SPOCK: Fascinating.
KIRK: Explain.
SPOCK: There is virtually no sensor contact. No mass analysis. No trace of radiation. We see it, but our sensors indicate it is not there.
KIRK: The Defiant! Mister Sulu, impulse engines only. Close to transporter range.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant, open up a hailing frequency.
UHURA: I've been trying to raise them, sir. There is no response.
SULU: Just within transporter range, sir.
KIRK: Good. Maintain position. Mister Spock, Mister Chekov, come with me. Doctor McCoy, report to the transporter room immediately. Scotty, you have the conn.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'NEIL: Locked in on the Defiant Bridge, sir.
KIRK: Energize.

[Defiant Bridge]
CHEKOV: Has there ever been a mutiny on a starship before?
SPOCK: Absolutely no record of such an occurrence, Ensign.
MCCOY: Jim. The Captain's neck is broken.
SPOCK: The ship is still functioning, Captain. It is logical to assume the mutineers are somewhere aboard.
KIRK: Use the ship's sensors to locate them. Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, sir.
KIRK: Prepare to beam over a full security squad on my orders.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, Captain.
SPOCK: Captain, there is no sign of life aboard this vessel.
KIRK: Odd, Mister Spock. Very odd. Spock, you stay here with me. Chekov, get down to Engineering and life support systems. Doctor McCoy, check out the Sickbay. Kirk to Enterprise. Cancel the security squad and stand by for further instructions.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, aye, Captain. Standing by.
SULU: I can't get an accurate fix on the Defiant, Mister Scott, but I know it's drifting away from us. Shall I correct for range, sir?
SCOTT: Aye, I think you're right. Keep us within beaming range, but not too close.

[Defiant Engineering]
CHEKOV: Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Report, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Just like what I found in life support. All dead.

[Defiant Bridge]
KIRK: Get back up here.
KIRK: Kirk to McCoy.

[Defiant Sickbay]
MCCOY: McCoy here.

[Defiant Bridge]
KIRK: Bones, can you tell me what they all died of?
MCCOY (voiceover): I'd say these people killed each other.
KIRK: They what?

[Defiant Sickbay]
MCCOY: You heard correctly, Jim. These people killed each other.

[Defiant Bridge]
KIRK: Could mental disease have infected all of the crew?
MCCOY (voiceover): According to the ship's log, the medical surgeon down here didn't even know what was going on.

[Defiant Sickbay]
MCCOY: The best I can do is get all the readings I can get and analyze them later.

[Defiant Corridor]
MCCOY: What the devil?
KIRK (voiceover): Bones, what is it?

[Defiant Doctor's office]
KIRK: Bones, what is it? Answer me!

[Defiant Bridge]
KIRK: Answer me!

[Defiant Doctor's office]
MCCOY: Jim, this ship is dissolving. My hand just passed through a man

[Defiant Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): And a table.
KIRK: Get up here on the double.

[Bridge]
SULU: Mister Scott, the Defiant. It's starting to disappear.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT (voiceover): Bridge to transporter room.
O'NEIL: Transporter room, O'Neil here.
SCOTT (voiceover): You got that transporter working yet, Mister?
O'NEIL: No, sir. Not yet.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Take over, Mister Sulu. I'll be in the transporter room.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.

[Defiant Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, the Defiant's sensors correspond with an extremely high degree of correlation to those of the Enterprise.
KIRK: You mean what happened to the Defiant might be happening to the Enterprise?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
KIRK: Mister Scott, stand by to beam us back.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: I can't, sir. At least, not all at once.

[Defiant Bridge]
KIRK: Why not? What's happened?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Everything. That ship you're in is fading out, and it's ripping the innards out of this one.

[Defiant Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's jamming our transporter frequencies. I've only got three of them working, and I'm not sure of those. One of you has got to wait.
KIRK: Chekov, McCoy, prepare for transportation. You, too, Spock.
SPOCK: Request permission to remain, Captain. I could be completing the data.
KIRK: Request denied.
SPOCK: Captain, there is a chance
KIRK: I know what the chances are. Mister Spock, don't argue. Get back with the information. I'll be right there. Scotty, energize transporter.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: Energize.
CHEKOV: It's gone. The Defiant just vanished.
SCOTT: Anything?
SPOCK: Negative.
SCOTT: That's it. I've done all I can. There's nothing out there to grab a hold of and bring in. When that ship went, it must have taken the Captain with it.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Computer working.
SPOCK: Compute the next period of spatial interphase.
COMPUTER: Next interphase two hours twelve minutes.
SCOTT: Two hours and twelve minutes? That power leak has unbalanced the ship and she's starting to drift. I can't hold her in place that long.
SPOCK: We must try, Mister Scott. The fabric of space is very weak here. If we disturb it, there will be no chance of retrieving the Captain alive.
CHEKOV: I don't understand what's so special about this region of space.
SPOCK: Well, picture it this way, Mister Chekov. We exist in a universe which co-exists with a multitude of others in the same physical space. At certain brief periods of time, an area of their space overlaps an area of ours. That is a time of interphase, during which we can connect with the Defiant's universe.
UHURA: Mister Spock? We will be able to retrieve the Captain at that time, won't we?
SPOCK: Yes. However, the dimensional structure of each universe is totally dissimilar. Any use of power disturbs it. If we are not extremely careful, we shall lose the Captain and become trapped ourselves.
UHURA: I see.
CHEKOV: And die like him?
SPOCK: Chekov! Chekov!
SPOCK: Security guards to the Bridge.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: What happened, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I was attempting to explain to Mister Chekov the nature of our problems in this situation when he attacked.
MCCOY: Did anyone notice anything peculiar in his behavior before this?
SULU: I think he had several spasms of pain.
MCCOY: Did he seem to be getting hysterical?
UHURA: Doctor, he seemed more angry than frightened.
SCOTT: He had no cause to be angry.
MCCOY: Take Mister Chekov to Sickbay. Put him under restraint.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura is correct. There was murderous fury in Chekov. The same fury which was evident in the Defiant.
MCCOY: That's what I was afraid of. Whatever it was that drove the crew of the Defiant to murder each other could be communicable.
SPOCK: Is there anything you need to isolate the cause?
MCCOY: Time. By the way, Mister Spock, I think it might be a wise precaution to put some distance between us and the Defiant.
SPOCK: If we are to recover the Captain, we must not move.
MCCOY: How long will that take?
SPOCK: Approximately two hours before the attempt can be made.
MCCOY: Spock, are you sure that Jim is still alive?
SPOCK: The Captain was caught in our transporter beam when the Defiant phased out. It is possible he was spared the shock of transition and survived. However, if we are to recover him, we must catch him at the precise moment during the next interphase, or he will die. And there can be no margin for error. His environmental unit can provide breathable air for no more than three point six two hours.
SULU: Mister Spock. A vessel approaching on an intercept vector.
SPOCK: Status, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Range two hundred thousand kilometers. Velocity zero point five one C.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, signal Red Alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Red Alert. All decks, go to Red Alert.
SULU: They've stopped dead, sir. Range ninety thousand kilometers and holding.
UHURA: Mister Spock? I'm receiving a visual signal.
SPOCK: Transfer to main viewer.
UHURA: Aye, sir. appears against a blue and pink tie-die background.)
LOSKENE (screen): I am Commander Loskene. You are trespassing in a territorial annex of the Tholian Assembly. You must leave this area immediately.
SPOCK: Spock, in command of the Federation star ship Enterprise. Commander, according to the Federation, this area is free space.
LOSKENE (screen): We claim this territory and are prepared to use force, if necessary, to protect our property.
SPOCK: We are not interested in your display of force. The Enterprise is responding to a distress signal from one of our ships and is currently engaged in rescue operations. Do you wish to assist us?
LOSKENE (screen): I find no evidence of a disabled ship. My instruments indicate ours are the only two vessels in this area.
SPOCK: The other ship is interspatially trapped. It should reappear in one hour and fifty three minutes. We request you stand by until then.
LOSKENE (screen): Very well, Enterprise. In the interest of interstellar amity, we will wait precisely one hour and fifty three minutes. But be correct. We do not tolerate deceit.

[Medical Lab]
MCCOY: If we could only find the proper filtering agent, we might be able to solve this problem. Negative. It's the third failure.
MCCOY: Nurse, take this sample and run an analysis on it.
CHAPEL: Yes, Doctor.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Bridge to transporter room.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Transporter room here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Ready for interphase in twenty seconds.

[Medical Lab]
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy!
MCCOY: Thank you, nurse. Call security. I want to have some checks run on this man.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lock on to Captain Kirk's co-ordinates

[Transporter room]
SPOCK (voiceover): And prepare to bring him aboard, Mister Scott.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bring him aboard, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: I'm trying. Captain Kirk is not on his designated co-ordinates, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Well, keep trying, Mister Scott.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Sulu, evaluation.
SULU: Sensor readings are not corresponding to those we received the last time we saw the Defiant.
SPOCK: It's possible the Tholian entry into the area has disturbed the space, and if that has occurred
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy to Bridge.
SPOCK: Spock here.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: Has the Captain been beamed aboard yet?
SPOCK (voiceover): Negative, Doctor.
MCCOY: When is that interphase going to happen?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Theoretically it already has happened, Doctor.

[Medical lab]
SPOCK (voiceover): However, the ship's sensors are not responding as predicted.
MCCOY: I thought you had the thing timed out.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I did, Doctor. The space was disturbed by the Tholians.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: You mean you don't know whether you're going to be able to recover the Captain or not?
SPOCK (voiceover): Not at this interphase.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I shall have to recalculate to determine when the next interphase will occur. They do not take place at regular intervals.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: You can't wait for the next one. We've had another case like Chekov.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): I had to confine my orderly to sickbay.
SPOCK: I have confidence that you will soon isolate the cause, Doctor, and prevent further spread of the affliction.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: The disease is not transmitted by the men, Mister Spock. The cause is the area of space we're in. It's affecting the whole crew.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): The molecular structure of the brain tissues in the central nervous system are distorting.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: And the madness that affected the Defiant's crew will soon happen to the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Now you've got to get this ship out of here.
SULU: Mister Spock, we're being fired upon.
SPOCK: The renowned Tholian punctuality.
UHURA: Mister Spock, damage control report. Minor structural damage to sections A4 and C13.
SPOCK: Engineering, hold power steady and cut off all unnecessary expenditures. Mister Sulu, divert all but emergency maintenance power to the shields.
SULU: But sir, that'll reduce our phaser power by fifty percent.
UHURA: Mister Spock!

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here.
SCOTT (voiceover): I know you don't like to use the phasers, but you've got to do something about that ship out there.
SPOCK: Understood. Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to the Tholian ship. Mister Sulu, lock in phaser tracking controls.
SULU: Phasers locked in, sir.
UHURA: There's no response on any frequency, sir.
MCCOY: What's the use of this battle, Spock? You've lost Jim. Take this ship out of here.
SPOCK: Ready, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Ready, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Fire.
SULU: A hit, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Engineering, status report. Mister Scott?
SCOTT (voiceover): Spock, that hit from the Tholians has fused our power supply converters.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I can't do a thing with the Enterprise now.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): She's bound to drift, maybe right through that doorway out there.
SPOCK: Can you estimate minimum time required for repair?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I don't even know if she can be repaired.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Are you satisfied? Spock, why did you do it?
SPOCK: The decision to fight was logical. Lack of time prevented any other course of action. The Tholian ship had to be disabled.
MCCOY: You should've known what could've happened and done everything in your power to safeguard your crew. That is the mark of a starship Captain, like Jim.
SPOCK: Doctor, I hardly believe this is the time for comparisons. Please go to your laboratory and search for an antidote to the effects of this space. That is your primary task, since we must remain here.
SULU: Mister Spock, something has just entered sensor range. It's another Tholian, sir. Loskene must've contacted them when he tried to intercept us.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
SULU: Shall I lock in remaining phaser power, sir?
SPOCK: Negative. Lieutenant Uhura, can you open a channel to the approaching vessel?
UHURA: They're refusing reception. I can't
SPOCK: Distance, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Just beyond phaser range, sir.
UHURA: What is that?
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, I shall run an analysis on those filaments. Tie in all sensors to the ship's library computer console. Switch scanners.
SULU: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: There's no analogy to this structure in Federation technology. It is, however, an energy field, and if the Tholians are successful in completing this structure before we have completed our repairs, we shall not see home again.

[Assembly room]
SPOCK: Doctor, your last report on an antidote on the effects of this space was negative.
MCCOY: It's still negative, Mister Spock. Theragen is the most promising substance tested so far. We're progressing.
SPOCK: The urgency requires your personal attention in the laboratory.
MCCOY: My staff is working around the clock. My being there will not affect the biochemistry of any of the tests. This service requires my personal attention, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: A few hours ago, the Captain elected to remain on board the Defiant so that three members of this crew would have the best chance of returning safely to the Enterprise. His concern was not only for them, but for all the members of the crew of this ship. You all know the sequence of events. We were fired upon by the Tholian ship. At that time, Captain Kirk may have been alive. I deemed it necessary to return the Tholian fire for the safety of the Enterprise. The Tholian ship has been disabled. But as a result of the battle, we must accept the fact that Captain Kirk is no longer alive.
MCCOY: Take him to Sickbay. Put him in restraint.
SPOCK: I shall not attempt to voice the quality of respect and admiration which Captain Kirk commanded. Each of you must evaluate the loss in the privacy of your own thoughts.
SCOTT: Attention. Dismissed.
MCCOY: There is a duty to be performed in the Captain's quarters, which requires our presence.
SPOCK: It can wait, Doctor. My duties require my immediate presence on the bridge.
MCCOY: The Captain left a message tape. It was his order that it be reviewed by both of us, should he ever be declared dead. You have just declared Jim dead.
SPOCK: It will wait for a more suitable moment, Doctor.
MCCOY: Why? Are you afraid it'll change your present status?
SPOCK: The mental and physical state of this crew are your responsibility, Doctor. At the moment, they are your top priority.
MCCOY: The Captain's last order is top priority, and you will honor that order before you take over.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: He was a hero in every sense of the word, yet his life was sacrificed for nothing. The one thing that would have given his death meaning is the safety of the Enterprise. Now you've made that impossible, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: We came here for a specific purpose, Doctor.
MCCOY: Maybe not the same one. I really came here to find out why you stayed and fought.
SPOCK: The Captain would have remained to recover a crew member at the risk of his own life or even his own ship.
MCCOY: Yes, he would, Mister Spock, but you didn't have that decision to make. What would you gain by fighting the Tholians? You could have assured yourself of a captaincy by leaving the area. But you chose to stay. Why?
SPOCK: I need not explain my rationale to you or any other member of this crew. There is a margin of variation in any experiment. While there was a chance, I was bound legally and morally to ascertain the Captain's status.
MCCOY: You mean to be sure if he was dead. Well, you made certain of that.
SPOCK: That is enough, Doctor. We both have other things to do.
MCCOY: Yes, I have something to do. If this crew is to survive, I have to find an antidote to this space you've locked us into.
SPOCK: You will return to your duty as soon as we've diskharged our responsibilities here.
MCCOY: There's no hurry, Mister Spock. The antidote probably doesn't concern you. Vulcans are probably immune, so just take your time.
MCCOY: I must admit I don't understand you, Spock, but I just can't believe that you would want Jim's command. You must know that if you get us out of this situation, they'll pin a medal on your chest and give you command of the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Doctor, I am in command of the Enterprise.
MCCOY: I would like to remedy that situation.
SPOCK: If you believe I have acted irregularly, then relieve me of duty. That is your prerogative as medical officer of this ship.
KIRK (screen): Bones, Spock. since you are playing this tape, we will assume that I am dead, that the tactical situation is critical, and both of you are locked in mortal combat. It means, Spock, that you have control of the ship and are probably making the most difficult decisions of your career. I can offer only one small piece of advice, for whatever it's worth. Use every scrap of knowledge and logic you have to save the ship. But temper your judgment with intuitive insight. I believe you have those qualities, but if you can't find them in yourself, seek out McCoy. Ask his advice. And if you find it sound, take it. Bones, you've heard what I've just told Spock. Help him if you can. But remember he is the Captain. His decisions must be followed without question. You might find that he is capable of human insight and human error. They are most difficult to defend, but you will find that he is deserving of the same loyalty and confidence each of you have given me. Take care.
MCCOY: Spock, I, er, I'm sorry. It does hurt, doesn't it?
SPOCK: What would you have me say, Doctor?
SPOCK: Spock here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Spock, we have a readout on the Tholian tractor field. I think we can estimate its approximate completion time.
SPOCK: I shall be there shortly. Doctor, I believe we each have our respective tasks to complete before the Tholians complete theirs.

[Uhura's quarters]
UHURA: Captain! Captain Kirk, we thought you were

[Corridor]
UHURA: Spock! Mister. Oh, Doctor I've just seen the Captain.
MCCOY: Of course you have, Uhura. We would all like to
UHURA: He's alive. He's alive, Doctor.
MCCOY: Of course.
UHURA: Believe me, I did see him. I did. Spock! Mister Spock!
MCCOY: We're going to Sickbay.
UHURA: Doctor. Doctor, I'm not going mad. I did see Captain Kirk. I've got to get to Mister Spock.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scott to Captain.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Captain.
SPOCK: Spock here. Proceed, Mister Scott.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: One of our crewmen just went berserk, but we have him under control for the moment.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Report to Doctor McCoy all symptoms noted prior to the attack.

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock out.

[Medical lab]
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy,
MCCOY: Yes, Nurse.
CHAPEL: I have the diagnosis of the crewman who attacked engineer Scott. It was definitely due to the deteriorative effects of interspace.
MCCOY: Yes, it's beginning to spread generally throughout the ship.
CHAPEL: Are we any closer, Doctor?
MCCOY: No, except I'm positive that it's a theragen derivative that's the answer. And it better be the next one.

[Sickbay]
UHURA: Mister Spock didn't believe me either, did he, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, nobody saw him but you, Uhura.
UHURA: Then I didn't really see him, did I?
MCCOY: I don't think so.
UHURA: Will I become like Chekov, Doctor?
MCCOY: No, no. We're working hard. We'll find an antidote.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: We're beginning to interphase.
O'NEIL: I'm all right.
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bridge. Spock here.
SCOTT: Are we slipping into interspace?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Negative. We are relatively stable at the moment.

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Why do you ask?
SCOTT: I don't believe it.
SPOCK (voiceover): What is it, Mister Scott?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Mister Scott?
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Spock.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I've just seen Captain Kirk. He was standing there as plain as we are.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): And then he just disappeared.
SPOCK: Report to the bridge immediately.
MCCOY: Sounds like a horror story. Suppose there's any truth in it?
SPOCK: In critical moments, men sometimes see exactly what they wish to see.
MCCOY: Do you suppose they're seeing Jim because they've lost confidence in you?
SPOCK: I was merely stating a fact, Doctor.
MCCOY: It's getting critical. There have been a number of assaults down on the lower decks. Even Scotty's being affected. If Scotty goes under, that's the finish of whatever chance we have of getting the Enterprise out of here.
SPOCK: Please leave that to me, Doctor McCoy. I realize that the crew are your prime concern. You can best serve them in your laboratory. I urge you to confine yourself to it until a remedy has been found.
MCCOY: Spock! It must be this space. It's getting to me too. I know it's nothing you've done, Spock. I, I'm sorry.
SPOCK: I understand, Doctor. I'm sure the Captain would simply have said forget it, Bones.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, look!
SPOCK: Captain? Captain? Captain.

[Sickbay]
UHURA: Am I all right, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes, Uhura, you're fine.
UHURA: Then what I saw
MCCOY: It was real.
UHURA: Captain Kirk's alive?
MCCOY: We all saw him. The Captain's still alive.
CHAPEL (voiceover): Nurse Chapel to Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: McCoy here.
CHAPEL: Results of the last theragen test are ready for you, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'll be right there.

[Spock's quarters]
SCOTT: Then your fears about that phaser were correct. It blasted a hole right through that crazy space fabric, and only heaven knows where it sent the Defiant.
SPOCK: Exactly. But the Captain remained. Only the overlap time changed. The next interphase will occur here.
SPOCK: Can you be ready?
SCOTT: That'll be about twenty minutes. Aye, she'll be back together. But we'll only have about eighty percent power built up.
SPOCK: It will have to do, Mister Scott. Come.
SCOTT: What have you got there?
MCCOY: Compliments of the house. To your good health and the health of the crew.
SPOCK: You've found the antidote, Doctor.
MCCOY: Yes, and I've ordered it orally or intravenously for everyone aboard the ship. I would like for you gentlemen to drink it down.
SPOCK: Ensign Chekov was affected so early. Has he responded to it?
MCCOY: He's his smiling self again. I've diskharged him from Sickbay.
SCOTT: What is it?
MCCOY: It's a diluted theragen derivative.
SPOCK: Theragen? A nerve gas used by the Klingons.
SCOTT: Aye. And deadly, too. What are you thinking of, Doc? Are you trying to kill us all?
SPOCK: If I remember correctly, it caused fatality only when used in pure form.
MCCOY: That's right, and in this derivative, mixed with alcohol, it merely deadens certain nerve inputs to the brain.
SCOTT: Oh, well, any decent brand of Scotch will do that.
MCCOY: One good slug of this, and you can hit a man with phaser stun, and he'd never feel it or even know it.
SCOTT: Does it make a good mix with Scotch?
MCCOY: It should.
SCOTT: I'll let you know.
MCCOY: Well, drink it down, Spock. It's the human thing to do. That's a medical order, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Welcome back, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Thank you, sir.
SPOCK: Your absence was keenly felt, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Thank you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Estimated time for completion of the Tholian web.
CHEKOV: Two minutes, sir.
SPOCK: Are the ships computers programd for entry into interspace?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir. The ship can drive into interspace at any time.
SPOCK: Spock to engineering.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scott here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Prepare for interphase in

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Fifteen seconds.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir. Standing by.
SULU: Mister Spock, they're closing the web.
CHEKOV: Interphase in ten seconds. Nine, eight

[Transporter room]
CHEKOV (voiceover): Seven, six, five

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Stand by with full power.

[Engineering]
CHEKOV (voiceover): Four, three
SCOTT: She's only up to seventy six percent.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: It will have to do.
CHEKOV: One.
SPOCK: Ready to transport on my order.
UHURA: I see him.
CHEKOV: There he is!
SULU: It's the Captain. Sir, the tractor field is activating.
CHEKOV: We're being pulled out of here.
SPOCK: Try to maintain position Mister Sulu.
SULU: I can't, sir.
SPOCK: Engineering, bring ship's power up to full capability.
UHURA: Where are we now, Mister Spock?
CHEKOV: Captain, we have destroyed the Tholians' web.
SPOCK: Negative, Ensign. Utilizing ship's power has thrown us clear of it. Compute the distance from the original location.
CHEKOV: At once, sir.
UHURA: Have we lost the Captain?
SPOCK: We shall soon see, Lieutenant.
CHEKOV: The ship has been thrown exactly two point seven two parsecs distant from our previous position.
SPOCK: Good. Since the Captain was locked into our transporter beam when we were thrown clear of the interphase area, he should've been drawn here with us. Spock to transporter room.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: McCoy here.
SPOCK (voiceover): The Captain's oxygen supply is running out now. Are you standing by with a hypo of tri-ox compound for him?
MCCOY: I'm ready, Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Prepare to transport on the Captain's co-ordinates on my order.
O'NEIL (voiceover): Ready, Mister Spock.
CHEKOV: Mister Spock, it's him! It's the Captain!
SPOCK: I see him, Ensign. I see him. Now, Doctor.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY: Welcome home, Jim.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I had a whole universe to myself after the Defiant was thrown out. There was absolutely no one else in it. I must say I prefer a crowded universe much better. How did you two get along without me?
MCCOY: Oh, we managed. Mister Spock gave the orders, and I found the answers.
KIRK: Good. No problems between you?
SPOCK: None worth reporting, Captain.
KIRK: Try me.
SPOCK: Only such minor disturbances as are inevitable when humans are involved.
KIRK: Which humans, Mister Spock?
MCCOY: He means when humans become involved with Vulcans, Jim.
KIRK: Ah, yes. I understand. Well, I hope my last orders were helpful in solving any problems that you don't feel worth reporting.
SPOCK: Orders, Captain?
MCCOY: What orders are you referring to, Jim?
KIRK: My last orders. The last orders that I left for both of you. The last taped orders.
MCCOY: Oh, those orders. Well, there wasn't time. We never had a chance to listen to them.
SPOCK: No. You see, the crisis was upon us, and then passed so quickly, Captain, that we
KIRK: Good. Good. Well, I hope we won't have similar opportunities to test those orders which you never heard. Ahead warp factor two, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Warp factor two, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Do we have maximum magnification, Lieutenant?
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Missile spread, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Very archaic type, Captain. Sub light speed.
SCOTT: Aye, and chemically fuelled to boot, sir.
KIRK: Anything on communications, Lieutenant Uhura?
UHURA: No, sir. All bands clear.
KIRK: Course of the missile, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: It would appear that the Enterprise is the target, Captain.
KIRK: Prepare phaser banks one and two, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, get a fix on the missile's point of origin.
CHEKOV: Aye, Captain.
SULU: Phasers one and two locked in and ready.
KIRK: Fire phasers. Mister Chekov, alter course to the missile's point of origin.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Warp factor three, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Warp factor three, sir.

[McCoy's office]
CHAPEL: I am a nurse first, Doctor McCoy, and a member of the crew of the Enterprise second.
MCCOY: You're excused. You may return to your quarters.
CHAPEL: No, I'm sorry, Doctor. I've called the Captain and I'll wait until he comes.
KIRK: What's the emergency?
MCCOY: I said you were excused, Nurse. Please, Christine. I promise you I'll give the Captain a full report.
KIRK: That was quite a scene.
MCCOY: I've just completed the standard physical examinations for the entire crew.
KIRK: Excellent. What's the emergency?
MCCOY: The crew is fit. I found nothing unusual, with one exception.
KIRK: Serious?
MCCOY: Terminal.
KIRK: What is it?
MCCOY: Xenopolycythemia. It has no cure.
KIRK: Who?
MCCOY: He has one year to live.
KIRK: Who is it?
MCCOY: The ship's Chief Medical Officer.
KIRK: You.
MCCOY: I'll be most effective on the job in the time left, if you'll keep this to yourself.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5476.3. I have just had the sad duty of informing Starfleet about Doctor McCoy's condition and have requested an immediate replacement.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Confirm Chekov's co-ordinates for the missile's point of origin.
SPOCK: Correct, Captain. We are approaching those co-ordinates.
KIRK: That object on the screen?
SPOCK: An asteroid, two hundred miles in diameter.
KIRK: Could the enemy vessel be hiding behind the asteroid?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. We've had that area on scanners constantly.
KIRK: Then the asteroid is the missile's point of origin.
SPOCK: Correct, Captain.
KIRK: Full sensor probe, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Typical asteroid chemically, but it is not orbiting. It is pursing an independent course through this solar system.
KIRK: How could that be? Unless it's powered. A spaceship?
SPOCK: It is under power, Captain. And correcting for all gravitational stresses.
KIRK: Source of power?
SPOCK: Atomic. Very archaic. Leaving a trail of debris and hard radiation.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, plot the course of the asteroid vessel.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: Asteroid has an outer shell, which is hollow. It surrounds an independent inner core, which has a breathable atmosphere. Sensors read no life forms.
SCOTT: Then it must be on automatic controls.
SPOCK: Then the passengers, or builders, are dead.
CHEKOV: Course of asteroid, I mean spaceship two four one mark one seven.
SPOCK: Interesting.
KIRK: Yes?
SPOCK: The course Ensign Chekov just gave for the asteroid would put it on a collision course with Daran Five.
KIRK: Daran Five? Inhabited?
SPOCK: Correct. Population approximately three billion and seven hundred twenty four million, if memory serves me correctly. Estimated time of impact three hundred ninety six days.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, match Enterprise speed with that of the asteroid vessel. Mister Spock and I are transporting aboard. Mister Scott, you have the conn.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
CHAPEL: A lot can happen in a year. Please, give yourself every minute.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock and I will handle this.
MCCOY: Without me, Jim? You'd never find your way back.
KIRK: Well, I think it would be wiser if
MCCOY: I'd like to go. I'm fine, Captain.
KIRK: All right, Doctor. If that's what you want.

[Open ground]
MCCOY: You'd swear you were on the surface of a planet.
SPOCK: One fails to see the logic in making a ship look like a planet.
KIRK: Wouldn't know this was a spaceship. Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise. Scott here.
KIRK: Transported without incident. Kirk out.
KIRK: No apparent opening.
MCCOY: You found no intelligent life forms, Mister Spock, but surely
SPOCK: The asteroid ship is over ten thousand years old, Doctor. Still no sign of life forms, Captain.
NATIRA: These are weapons?
KIRK: Of a sort. Weapons, communication devices. Let me go to my friend.
KIRK: You all right?
MCCOY: I think so.
NATIRA: I am Natira, the high priestess of the people. Welcome to the world of Yonada.
KIRK: I can't say I think much of your welcome.
NATIRA: Take them.

[Oracle room]
NATIRA: You will kneel.
MCCOY: She called this the world. These people don't know they're on a spaceship.
KIRK: They've been in flight ten thousand years. Maybe they don't realize it.
NATIRA: Oh, Oracle of the people, most perfect and wise. Strangers have come to our world. They bear instruments we do not understand.
NATIRA: Who are you?
KIRK: I am Captain Kirk of the starship Enterprise. This is my medical officer, Doctor McCoy. My first officer, Mister Spock.
NATIRA: For what reason do you visit this world?
KIRK: We've come in friendship.
ORACLE: Then learn what it means to be our enemy before you learn what it means to be our friend.

[Room]
KIRK: Spock. Doctor McCoy. Bones. Bones?
SPOCK: The doctor must have received an excessively large electrical shock.
KIRK: No, that's not it.
SPOCK: Nothing else could've caused this, Captain. At least nothing that has happened here.
KIRK: You're right, Spock. The shock was serious because of McCoy's weakened condition.
SPOCK: May I ask precisely what is troubling the doctor?
KIRK: I don't think he would've told you himself, but I think you should know now. It's xenopolycythemia.
SPOCK: Yes. I know of it, Captain.
KIRK: Then you know that nothing can be done.
KIRK: Bones, how is it?
MCCOY: I'm all right. Are you all right, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Very well, Doctor. The Captain and I seem to have suffered no ill effects.
MCCOY: Oh, that Oracle really got to me. I must be especially susceptible to its magic spells.
KIRK: Spock knows.
MCCOY: Well, we'd better get to the control room.
KIRK: Are you in any condition to get up?
MCCOY: Don't worry. I can make it, Jim.
SPOCK: Captain, informing these people they're on a ship may be in violation of the Prime Directive of Starfleet Command.
KIRK: No. The people of Yonada may be changed by the knowledge, but it's better than exterminating them.
SPOCK: Logical, Captain.
KIRK: And the three billion on Daran Five.
SPOCK: Also logical, Captain.
MCCOY: Gentlemen, I believe we have a visitor.
MAN: For strength. Many of us have felt the power of our Oracle. This has been of benefit.
MCCOY: It tastes like an ancient herb derivative.
MAN: You are not of Yonada.
KIRK: No, we're from outside your world.
MAN: Where is outside?
KIRK: Up there. Outside, up there, everywhere.
MAN: So they say, also. Many years ago I climbed the mountains, even though it is forbidden.
KIRK: Why is it forbidden?
MAN: I am not sure. But things are not as they teach us. For the world is hollow, and I have touched the sky.
KIRK: What is it, Bones?
MCCOY: There's something under the skin. He's dead.
KIRK: For the world is hollow, and I have touched the sky.
SPOCK: He said it was forbidden to climb the mountains.
KIRK: Yes, of course it is, because if you did you'd touch the sky and find out that you were living on a big ball. Not a planet, but a spaceship. And that knowledge seems to be forbidden.
NATIRA: What happened?
KIRK: We don't know. He just suddenly screamed in pain and died.
NATIRA: Fetch the guard. Forgive him for he was an old man, and old men are sometimes foolish. But it is written that those of the people who sin or speak evil shall be punished. He served well for many years. Take him away, gently.
NATIRA: You do not seem well. It is distressing to me.
MCCOY: Oh, no. I'm quite all right, thank you.
NATIRA: It is the will of the Oracle that you now be treated as honored guests.
KIRK: You seem to be the special favorite.
SPOCK: Indeed, Doctor. The young lady did show a marked preference for your company.
MCCOY: Well, now. Nobody can blame her for that, can they?
KIRK: Personally, I find the lady's taste questionable, but she obviously prefers you, and you obviously don't seem to mind. If you could arrange to be alone with the young lady, Spock and I would be left alone to find the power controls of this world.
NATIRA: It is time to refresh yourselves.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. To our good friends of Yonada.
SPOCK: We are very interested in your world.
NATIRA: That pleases us.
KIRK: Good. Then you wouldn't mind if we looked around?
NATIRA: Not at all. The people know of you now. Are you well enough to go about?
MCCOY: Perhaps not.
NATIRA: Then why not remain here? Rest. We will talk.
MCCOY: You are very kind.
NATIRA: You are free to go about and meet our people.
KIRK: Thank you. And thank you for taking care of Doctor McCoy.
NATIRA: Not at all. We shall make him well.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
MCCOY: No, thank you.
NATIRA: Leave us.
MCCOY: I'm curious. How did the Oracle punish the old man?
NATIRA: I cannot tell you now.
MCCOY: There is some way the Oracle knows what you say, isn't there?
NATIRA: What we say, what we think. The Oracle knows the minds and the hearts of all the people. I did not know you would be hurt so badly.
MCCOY: It's all right. I suppose we had to learn the power of the Oracle.
NATIRA: McCoy, there is something I must say. Since the moment I. It is not in the manner of the people to hide their feelings.
MCCOY: Honesty is usually wise.
NATIRA: Is there a woman for you?
MCCOY: No, there isn't.
NATIRA: Does McCoy find me attractive?
MCCOY: Oh, yes. Yes, I do.
NATIRA: I hope you men of space, of other worlds, hold truth as dear as we do.
MCCOY: We do.
NATIRA: I wish you to stay here on Yonada as my mate.
MCCOY: But we're strangers to each other.
NATIRA: But is not that the nature of men and women? That the pleasure is in the learning of each other?
MCCOY: Yes.
NATIRA: Let the thought rest in your heart, McCoy.

[Street cum Corridor]
SPOCK: Incredible as it may seem, these people have no idea they're living on a spaceship.
KIRK: I wonder how many generations have lived out their lives and been buried here without ever knowing that their world is hollow.

[Room]
NATIRA: The people, in the fullness of time, will reach a new world. Rich, green, lovely to the eyes, and of a goodness that will fill the hearts of the people with tears of joy. You can share that world with me, rule it by my side.
MCCOY: How long will it take you to reach this new world?
NATIRA: Soon. The Oracle will only say soon.
MCCOY: If you only knew how I needed some kind of future, Natira.
NATIRA: You have lived a lonely life?
MCCOY: Yes, very lonely.
NATIRA: No more, McCoy. There will be no more loneliness for you.
MCCOY: There's something I need to tell you.
NATIRA: There is nothing you need to say.
MCCOY: But there is.
NATIRA: Then tell me, if the telling is such a need.
MCCOY: I have an illness for which there is no cure. I have one year to live.
NATIRA: Until I saw you, there was nothing in my heart. It sustained my life, but nothing more. Now it sings. I could be happy to have that feeling for a day, a week, a month, a year. Whatever the creators hold in store for us.

[Street cum Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, the Oracle room.
KIRK: The problem, to get in.
SPOCK: I believe that I can. The writing is definitely Fabrini, Captain. I recognize it.
KIRK: Fabrini? Didn't the Fabrini sun go nova and destroy its planets?
SPOCK: Yes. Towards the end, the Fabrini people lived underground, as these people do, to protect themselves.
KIRK: Some of them must have been put aboard this ship and sent to another planet. And these are their descendants. Now.

[Oracle room]
KIRK: The Oracle doesn't seem to know we're here. I wonder what alerted it the first time.
SPOCK: Captain. If I remember correctly, the oracle's reprehensible conduct was initiated when Natira knelt on that platform.
KIRK: I think you're right. Continue investigating. The clue to the location of the control room must be around here somewhere.
SPOCK: Nothing here which would indicate this is anything but a planet. There's no question but that the creators would be considered gods.
KIRK: This plaque is a representation of a star and its solar system.
SPOCK: Eight planets, Captain. That is the number in the Fabrina solar system.
KIRK: Then there's no doubt these people are the descendants of the Fabrini.
SPOCK: And no doubt they've been in flight on this asteroid ship for ten thousand years.
ORACLE: Speak.
NATIRA: It is I, Natira.
ORACLE: Yes, Natira.
NATIRA: It is written only the high priestess of the people may select her mate.
ORACLE: It is so written.
NATIRA: The strangers among us, the three visitors. There is one called McCoy. I wish him to remain here as my mate.
ORACLE: Does he agree to this?
NATIRA: I have asked him. He has not yet given me his answer.
ORACLE: He must become one of the people, worship the creators, and agree to the insertion of the Instrument of Obedience.
NATIRA: He will be told what must be done.
ORACLE: If he agrees to all things, it is permitted. Teach him our laws carefully so he commits no sacrilege, no offense against the people or the creators.
NATIRA: It will be done, o most wise.
ORACLE: Who are the intruders?
NATIRA: Two of the strangers, Kirk and Spock.
ORACLE: McCoy is not with them?
NATIRA: No.
ORACLE: Kirk and Spock have committed sacrilege. You know what must be done.
NATIRA: I know. When the oracle releases them, take them. Fools. You think we are children? You think you can do as you please, commit whatever offense amuses you?

[Natira's room]
MCCOY: What are you going to do to my friends?
NATIRA: They entered the Oracle room.
MCCOY: And the punishment is death?
NATIRA: Yes. I can make no other decision. We gave them our trust, they betrayed us.
MCCOY: They acted out of ignorance, Natira.
NATIRA: They said they came in friendship.
MCCOY: Please let them return to the ship.
NATIRA: I cannot.
MCCOY: For me? I've made my decision. I'm staying here, on Yonada. Natira, what they did, they did because they felt they had to. Please, let them return to the ship. You won't regret it. How do you think I'd feel if I stayed here with the chance to be happy for the first time in my life, but knowing my friends had died?
NATIRA: Yes. So be it. This I will do for McCoy. For our happiness and future.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: You're returning with us?
MCCOY: No, I'm not.
KIRK: Bones, this isn't a planet. It's a space ship on a collision course with Daran Five.
MCCOY: I'm on a kind of a collision course myself, Jim.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, I order you to return with us.
MCCOY: And I refuse.
KIRK: Bones, if we can't correct the course of this ship, we'll have to blast it out of space.
MCCOY: I intend to stay on this ship, with these people, whatever happens.
SPOCK: Your decision is most illogical, Doctor.
MCCOY: Is it, Mister Spock? Is it really? Natira's asked me to stay, and I'm staying.
KIRK: As her husband?
MCCOY: Yes. Is that too much to ask, Jim?
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: We're beaming over. Lock in on our signal.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: And transport Mister Spock and myself immediately.
SCOTT (voiceover): But, Captain, what about Doctor McCoy?
KIRK: He's staying, Scotty. Kirk out.

[Oracle room]
ORACLE: To become one of the people of Yonada, the Instrument of Obedience must be made part of your flesh. Do you now give your consent?
MCCOY: I do.
ORACLE: Proceed.
NATIRA: Say now, because once done, it is done.
MCCOY: Let it be done.
NATIRA: You are now one with my people. May I give you the love you want, and make the time you have beautiful.
MCCOY: We're now of one mind.
NATIRA: One heart.
MCCOY: One life.
NATIRA: It is done, O most wise. Our living link with the creators.
ORACLE: Teach him, then, what he must know as one of the people.
NATIRA: This is the Book of the People, to be opened and read when we reach the new world of the promise. It was given by the creators.
MCCOY: Do the people know the contents of their book?
NATIRA: Only that it tells of our world here and why soon, one day, we must leave it for the new world.
MCCOY: Has the reason that the people must leave here been revealed to you?
NATIRA: No, it has not.
MCCOY: Don't you long to know its secrets?
NATIRA: No. It is enough for me to know that we shall understand all when we reach our home. Captain's Log, stardate 5476.4. We are on a parallel course with Yonada. It is still on a collision course with Daran Five. Our failure to correct its course and the critical nature of Doctor McCoy's illness made the extraordinary event of contact with Starfleet Command imperative.

[Kirk's quarters]
ADMIRAL (screen): Captain Kirk, I sympathize with your wish to stay, but I hope you recognize the necessity that you continue your mission at once.
KIRK: That is the problem, sir.
ADMIRAL (screen): Perhaps haven't made myself clear. Let me restate it. You have been relieved of all responsibility for the asteroid ship Yonada. Starfleet Command will take care of the situation.
SPOCK: I believe it's time to move on.
KIRK: Yes. Those are the orders.
UHURA (voiceover): Captain Kirk. Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): An urgent call from Doctor McCoy, sir.
KIRK: Put him on.
MCCOY (voiceover): Jim.
KIRK: Yes, Bones.
MCCOY (voiceover): We may be able to get these people back on course.
KIRK: You've located the controls?

[Natira's room]
MCCOY: No, but I've seen the book that contains all the knowledge of the creators. And if you
MCCOY: If you can get to it, Spock

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY (voiceover): Can dig out the information.
KIRK: Where is it?
KIRK: Bones, are you all right?

[Natira's room]
KIRK (voiceover): Bones, answer me! Bones, what is it? Bones, what is it? McCoy, what's happening? What's happening, McCoy?
NATIRA: You are killers of your friend. I will have you put to death.
KIRK: Help him.
NATIRA: Until you are dead, he will think of you and disobey! I will see you die!
KIRK: Spock, take care of McCoy.
NATIRA: He is not part of our people. You've released him from his vow of obedience.
KIRK: We have freed him from the cruelty of your Oracle.
NATIRA: McCoy.
KIRK: Bones. Bones. You said something about a book. Where is it?
NATIRA: They must not know.
MCCOY: The Oracle room.
NATIRA: You will never see the book. It is sacrilege! Guards! Guards! Guards!
KIRK: Now listen to me. You must listen to what I have to say. Give me one moment to speak to you. One moment. Natira, if you don't believe what I'm about to tell you, you can call the guards. We'll accept any punishment you decree.
NATIRA: What do you wish to say?
KIRK: You must believe that what I'm about to tell you is the truth.
NATIRA: Your truth, of your world.
KIRK: Yes, my world and your world of Yonada.
NATIRA: You don't obey the law of the creators. How can you understand my world?
KIRK: I understand. I understand, Natira. Ten thousand years ago, a sun was dying and with it, its world. It's the world you see on the plaque in the room of the Oracle.
NATIRA: That is a world of which Yonada is a part.
KIRK: No. It is the world of your ancestors, your creators. It no longer exists.
NATIRA: You are mad.
KIRK: No, I'm not. Now listen to me! Hear me out. When your ancestors diskovered that their world was dying they built a great ship and chose their best people. They wished for their race to survive. They sent the ship out into space.
NATIRA: You wish me to believe that Yonada is a ship?
KIRK: Yes.
NATIRA: But we have a sun. It did not die. At night I see the stars.
KIRK: No. You are living inside a hollow ball. Your ancestors created it to take you on a journey to a promised new planet.
NATIRA: Why should the Why should the truth wait for you to come to Yonada?
KIRK: Because a flaw developed in the controls. And unless we correct it, Yonada will kill millions of people and destroy a world it doesn't even know.
NATIRA: Why should the truth be kept from us? Why should the creators keep us in darkness? No. No, you do not speak the truth. I believe only the Oracle. I believe!
KIRK: Let us remove the instrument of obedience, the way we did for McCoy. Natira.
KIRK: Do you think she understood me?
SPOCK: She evidently understood something. There are no guards to detain us.

[Oracle room]
ORACLE: You have listened to the words of the non-believers.
NATIRA: Yes. I have listened.
ORACLE: That was the first transgression. You felt the pain of warning?
NATIRA: Yes, I did.
ORACLE: Why did you listen further?
NATIRA: They said they spoke the truth.
ORACLE: Their truth.
NATIRA: Is truth not truth for all?
ORACLE: The truth of Yonada is your truth. There can be no other for you. Repent your disobedience.
NATIRA: I must know the truth of the world!
NATIRA: Your friends have told me of your world.
MCCOY: They spoke the truth.
NATIRA: I believe you. I believe. The creators kept us in darkness. There's nothing I can do. I believe with you, husband.
KIRK: Is she all right?
MCCOY: She will be. I'll stay here with her. The book is in the monolith.
ORACLE: It is sacrilege to the temple.
KIRK: We do this for the survival of the people of Yonada.
ORACLE: You are not believers. You are forbidden to gaze at the book.
KIRK: We mean no desecration to the faith of Yonada. We must consult the book to help you.
ORACLE: It is blasphemy. You are forbidden. The punishment is death.
SPOCK: Temperature one hundred eleven degrees and rising.
KIRK: McCoy, how do you open this thing?
SPOCK: Temperature one hundred fifteen degrees.
MCCOY: Press the three lower planets on the left-hand side simultaneously.
SPOCK: One hundred twenty degrees.
KIRK: Here. The plan must be in there. Is it indexed?
SPOCK: Yes, it is.
KIRK: Hurry, Spock.
SPOCK: It refers to the altar. Apply pressure to the center until it opens.
KIRK: Let's get her out of the heat.

[Control room]
SPOCK: I've neutralized the heating elements.

[Oracle room]
MCCOY: We'll be all right here now, Jim.
MCCOY: The oracle can no longer punish us.
NATIRA: Your friends have prevented it?
MCCOY: Yes.
NATIRA: And will they send this this ship again to the land the creators intended?
MCCOY: Yes.
NATIRA: That is good.

[Control room]
KIRK: Active and functional. Not too different from the Enterprise.
SPOCK: There seems to be a weakness in one of the eight tubes.
KIRK: Enough to turn it off course?
SPOCK: Yes. Let me check that engine. A very simple problem, easy to correct.

[Oracle room]
MCCOY: Then come.
NATIRA: No.
MCCOY: Don't be afraid.
NATIRA: I do not fear the punishment of disobedience. Well, then, come. We must hurry to join
NATIRA: No, I cannot go with you. It is not fear. I understand the great purpose of the creators. I shall honor it.
MCCOY: You intend to stay here, on Yonada?
NATIRA: I shall stay willingly, and because that is what I must do.
MCCOY: Then I won't leave you.
NATIRA: Will McCoy stay here to die? No. McCoy will not let go of life and the fullness of years.
MCCOY: Now more than ever, I wish to search through the universe to find a cure for myself and others like me. And I want you to be with me.
NATIRA: This is my universe. You came here with a great mission to save my people. Shall I abandon them? Perhaps one day, if it is permitted, you will find Yonada again.

[Control room]
SPOCK: I believe we can attempt the course correction, Captain.
KIRK: Good. Going back to marked headings.
SPOCK: Guidance control's taking over. I believe we can allow this ship to go back to its automatic control.
KIRK: Steadying on course marked in red.
SPOCK: Captain. Intelligence files. Their banks contain the total knowledge of the Fabrini, ready for the people to consult when they arrive at their destination. And they seem to have amassed a great deal of medical knowledge.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Excellent, Doctor. The white corpuscle count is back to normal.
SPOCK: Your hemoglobin count is back to normal, Doctor, which indicates that the flow of oxygen to each cell of your body is back up to its abundantly energetic level.
MCCOY: Thank you, Mister Spock, for bringing back the knowledge of the Fabrini.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, the Fabrini descendants are scheduled to debark on their promised planet in approximately three hundred and ninety days. I think that we could manage to be in that vicinity at that time, if you wanted to thank the Fabrini personally.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Report, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Full scan. Results negative. Radiation level normal. Atmosphere and terrain are undisturbed. No evidence of a colony nor any residual aftereffect of a force that might have annihilated it.
KIRK: Life readings, Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY: Nothing. They said they were being attacked by an unidentified ship.
CHEKOV: Which we were unable to detect upon approach.
KIRK: An entire human colony, a whole settlement. One hundred men, women and children. Who did it? And why? Kirk here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sensors have picked up a Klingon ship, closing fast.
KIRK (voiceover): Deflectors on. Condition Red. Protect yourselves.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Total reply if attacked. So that's the answer. Klingons.

[Bridge]
SULU: Trouble aboard the Klingon ship. Evidence of explosions, massive destruction.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, the enemy ship is drifting, totally disabled.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: And we never fired upon her.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Maintain Red Alert.
KANG: You attacked my ship! Four hundred of my crew dead. Kirk, my ship is disabled. I claim yours. You are now prisoners of the Klingon Empire against which you have committed a wanton act of war!
KANG: For three years, the Federation and the Klingon Empire have been at peace. A treaty we have honored to the letter.
KIRK: We took no action against your ship, Kang.
KANG: Were the screams of my crew imaginary? What were your orders, Kirk? To start a war? You've succeeded. To test a new weapon? We shall be happy to examine it.
KIRK: There was a Federation colony on this planet. It was destroyed.
KANG: By what? No bodies, no ruins. A colony of the invisible?
KIRK: Yes, a test of a new Klingon weapon, leaving no traces. Federation ships don't specialize in sneak attacks.
KANG: We have wondered when you would begin. You lured my ship into ambush by a false Klingon distress call. You will tell us why with the proper persuasion.
KIRK: You received a distress call? We received a distress call.
KANG: I don't propose to spend the rest of my life on this ball of dust arguing your fantasies. The Enterprise is mine! Instruct your transporter room to beam us aboard.
KIRK: Go to the devil.
KANG: We have no devil, Kirk. But we understand the habits of yours. I shall torture you to death one by one until your noble captain cries enough. Who will be first?
CHEKOV: Cossacks! Filthy Klingon murderers! You killed my brother Piotre. The Archanis Four research outpost. A hundred peaceful people massacred! Just like you did here. My brother, you killed my brother.
KANG: And you volunteer to join him. That is loyalty.
KIRK: Chekov! Stop the torture!
MCCOY: Jim, you can't hand over the Enterprise.
KIRK: Help Chekov.
KANG: Don't plan any tricks, Kirk. I will kill one hundred hostages at the first sign of treachery.
KIRK: I'll beam you aboard the Enterprise. Once there, no tricks.
CHEKOV: Captain, you can't. Don't let these animals have the ship.
MCCOY: Move aside.
KANG: Animals? Your captain crawls like one. A Klingon would never have surrendered. Order everybody in this area to be transported up. All weapons on him.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Here, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, we have guests. Adjust transporter to wide field. Beam up everyone in the target area.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Understood, Captain. Transporter room.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Full security, Johnson, on the double.
KIRK: Good work, Spock.
MCCOY: What happened?
SPOCK: Our landing party is intact, Doctor.
SCOTT: All others suspended in transit. Who are the guests, by the way?
KIRK: Klingons.
SCOTT: Well, they're right in here.
KIRK: Johnson?
JOHNSON: Security on the way, sir.
CHEKOV: Captain, leave them where they are. Non-existence. That's so many less Klingon monsters in the galaxy.
KIRK: Bring them in.
JOHNSON: Move 'em out. Move!
KANG: Liar!
KIRK: I said no tricks after we reach the ship. You're a prisoner of the Federation of Planets against which you may or may not have committed an act of war.
KANG: There are still survivors aboard my ship.
SCOTT: Captain, we've not been able to get through to Starfleet Command. All subspace frequencies have been blocked, and there's too much radiation coming from that Klingon ship. It's a hazard to the vicinity.
KIRK: Prepare to destruct.
KANG: Completing the job you started?
KIRK: You wouldn't be standing here if I had.
SPOCK: First group from the Klingon vessel, Captain.
KANG: My wife, Mara, and my science officer.
MARA: Kang, what has happened?
KANG: More Federation treachery. We are prisoners.
MARA: What will they do to us? I've heard of their atrocities, their death camps. They will torture us for our scientific and military information.
KIRK: Apparently you have a few things to learn about us. Detain them in the crew lounge. Program the food synthesizer to accommodate our guests. You'll be well-treated, Kang.
KANG: So I have seen.
KIRK: Secure from Red Alert.

[Corridor]
KIRK: But maintain general quarters. Scan this sector for other ships. Run a full check on the colony. I want this thing nailed down fast.
CHEKOV: We know what happened. That distress call.
SPOCK: At the moment we received the distress signal from the colony on Beta Twelve A, the Klingons were too far distant to have been the attackers. Moreover, they also were apparently attracted by a distress call.

[Turbolift]
CHEKOV: Lies. They want to start a war by pretending that we did.
MCCOY: Chekov may be right. The Klingons claim to have honored the truce, but there have been incidents, raids on our outposts.
KIRK: No proof that Klingons committed it.
MCCOY: What proof do we need? We know what a Klingon is.
SPOCK: Our log tapes will indicate our innocence in the present situation.
KIRK: Unfortunately, there's no guarantee that they will be believed.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Report.
UHURA: Still no contact with Starfleet Command, sir. Outside communications blanketed.
KIRK: Keep trying. We've got a diplomatic tiger by the tail.
SCOTT (voiceover): Transporter room to Bridge. Klingon ship is vacated, sir.
KIRK: Very good, Scotty. Mister Sulu?
SULU: Forward phasers locked and ready to fire, sir.
KIRK: Fire phasers.
SPOCK: Sensor sweeps reveal no other ships within range, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura?
UHURA: No contact with Starfleet as yet, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, change course to seventeen mark four, warp factor three.
SULU: Warp factor three, sir.

[Crew Lounge]
KANG: When I take this ship, I'll have Kirk's head stuffed and hung on his cabin wall.
MARA: They will kill us before we can act.
KANG: No, they wish to question us, learn our strength, our plans. They never will.
MARA: We are forty against four hundred.
KLINGON: Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
KANG: Patience. Vigilance. They will make a mistake. Capture of the Enterprise will give us knowledge to end this war quickly.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain! This doesn't make sense. Carriers are normal. Channels are open. There's still no outside contact! I don't understand it, sir. Could the Klingons be doing something?
KIRK: Sulu?
SULU: Change in course. Accelerating. Helm dead. Auxiliary navigation dead.
KIRK: Override.
SULU: Nothing responds, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, stop all engines.
SCOTT (voiceover): I would if I could, sir.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: The controls have gone crazy. Something's taken over.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty!
SCOTT (voiceover): The engines, sir.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: They've gone to warp nine, by themselves!

[Bridge]
KIRK: New course?
SULU: Nine oh two mark five.
KIRK: That'll take us out of the galaxy.
UHURA: Captain, reports coming in from the lower decks. Emergency bulkheads have closed. Almost four hundred crewmen are trapped down there, sir.

[Crew Lounge]
KANG: Most interesting. The bulk of your crew trapped, your ship racing from this galaxy at wild speeds. Delightful. How did I perform this sabotage, Kirk? All my men are here.
KIRK: Johnson. Get down to Security. Search every section. Some Klingons may have beamed aboard undetected from the wrecked ship. Then get down to Engineering and help Scotty hammer things back to normal. And free those trapped crewmen. And before I put you in the brig, there's a little something I owe you.
KIRK: Phasers.
KIRK: Out!

[Corridor]
BALD KLINGON: Stand and fight, you cowards.
KIRK: Sickbay.
KIRK: Bridge.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The Klingons are free. They're armed as we are. They'll try to take the ship. Scotty, how many men do we have?
SCOTT (voiceover): Three hundred and ninety two trapped below decks.
KIRK: Deploy forces to protect your section and the auxiliary control center.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Check the armory, and try and free those trapped crewmen.
SCOTT: The doors and bulkheads won't budge. We'll have to cut through.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Blow out the bulkheads if you have to. We need numbers. What kind of luck have you had controlling the ship's speed?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: No, sir. She's a projectile at warp nine. And don't ask me what's holding her together.
KIRK (voiceover): Five-minute report. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Full sensor scan of the ship. Report on any movement by the Klingons. The Klingon Empire has maintained a dueling tradition. They think they can beat us with swords.
SPOCK: Captain, neither the Klingon technology nor ours, is capable of this. The instantaneous transmutation of matter. I doubt that they are responsible.
KIRK: Any other logical candidate?
SPOCK: None. However, if they had such power, would they not have used it to create more effective weapons and only for themselves?
KIRK: Mister Sulu. Get below. Take command of Engineering and auxiliary control.
SULU: Aye, sir.
CHEKOV: Captain.
KIRK: Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Captain!
KIRK: Mister Chekov, as you were. Chekov!
CHEKOV: Sir, let me go too. I've got a personal score to settle with the Klingons.
KIRK: This is no time for a vendetta. Maintain your post.
CHEKOV: Captain!
KIRK: Chekov, maintain your post!
CHEKOV: Don't try to stop me, Captain. I saw what they left of Piotre, and I swore on his grave I would avenge his murder.
SULU: What's Chekov's grudge against the Klingons? Who's Piotre?
KIRK: His only brother, killed in a Klingon raid.
SULU: His brother? He never had a brother. He's an only child.
KIRK: Sulu, get down to Engineering.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Security, this is the captain. Find Mister Chekov and bring him to the bridge.
UHURA: Captain, why would, why would Chekov believe he has a brother?
KIRK: I don't know, but he does. And now he wants revenge for a non-existent loss.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: There. Those filthy butchers. There are rules, even in war. You don't keep hacking at a man after he's down. Hand me that numanol capsule.

[Science Lab]
KLINGON: Layout and specifications of the Enterprise, Commander.
MARA: Enemy numbers are the same as ours. We have a fighting balance.
KANG: Then we take the ship.
KLINGON: A ship that is headed towards the end of the galaxy?
KANG: In time, in time. We must take these sections. First, Engineering.

[Armory]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SCOTT: Scott here, sir. There's no use trying to free those men down below. The phaser torches, they won't cut through the bulkheads, nor the doors, nor the decks. There's something happened to the metal.
KIRK (voiceover): What about the armory?
SCOTT: I'm there now, sir, and you never saw such a fine collection of antiques in your life.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Get back to Engineering. Try to re-establish engine control, and talk to ordnance about manufacturing phaser replacements.

[Armory]
SCOTT: Aye, sir. A Claymore. You're a beauty.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What the blazes is going on?
SPOCK: Scans indicate that our forces and those of the Klingons are exactly equal at thirty eight each. The Klingons control deck six and starboard deck seven, while we control all sections above.
KIRK: Constant surveillance, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Most curious, Captain. There appear to be more life-energy units on board than can be accounted for by the presence of the Enterprise crew plus the Klingons. A considerable diskrepancy.
KIRK: Could more Klingons have beamed aboard?
SPOCK: I shall attempt a compensatory reading of Klingon units.

[Corridor outside Engineering]
SCOTT: Any signs of those devils, Mister Sulu?
SULU: All clear, Mister Scott.

[Corridor outside Engineering]
SCOTT: They've taken Engineering. I don't know how many more of those Klingons are around, but we'll split up here and try to make it back to the bridge.
SULU: Aye.

[Engineering]
ALL: Victory! Victory!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: No additional Klingons detected, Captain. It is an alien life force, a single entity. I cannot ascertain its location.
KIRK: An alien life force. We must make contact, find out what it wants.
SPOCK: Readings being diverted to the library computer for analysis. Computer report.
COMPUTER: Alien life force onboard is composed of pure energy. Type unknown. Actions indicate intelligence and purpose.
SPOCK: What purpose?
COMPUTER: Insufficient data for further analysis.
KIRK: A brother that never existed, a phantom colony, imaginary distress calls, the creation of these weapons. Do you sense a pattern, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: If the alien is creating these events, Captain, it is apparently capable of manipulating matter and mind.
KIRK: And now it has control of the Enterprise and taking us out of the galaxy. But why?
SPOCK: Captain, I am constrained to point out that since minds are evidently being influenced, we cannot know at this moment whether our own memories are completely accurate and true.
KIRK: We must talk to Kang, bury the hatchet.
SPOCK: An appropriate choice of terms. However, it is notoriously difficult to arrange a truce with the Klingons once blood has been drawn.
MCCOY: Truce? Are you serious? I've got men in Sickbay, some of them dying. Atrocities committed on their persons, and you talk about making peace with these fiends? If our backs were turned, they'd jump us in a minute. And you know what Klingons do to prisoners. Slave labor, death planets, experiments!
KIRK: McCoy?
MCCOY: While you're talking, they're planning attacks. This is a fight to the death. We'd better start trying to win it!
SPOCK: We are attempting to end it, Doctor. By reason, preferably. There is an alien on board which may have created this situation.
MCCOY: Who cares what started it, Mister Spock. We're in it! Murderers. We should wipe out every one of them!
KIRK: The alien is the real threat. That's the enemy we have to wipe out.
UHURA: Sickbay calling, Doctor. There are more wounded men requiring your attention.
MCCOY: How many more men must die before you two begin to act like military men instead of fools?

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
KANG: This is Kang.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kang, there's something important I must diskuss with you.
KANG (voiceover): I have captured your engineering section. I now control this ship's power and life-support systems.

[Engineering]
KANG (voiceover): I have deprived all areas except our own. You will die of suffocation in the icy cold of space.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The Enterprise is heading out of our galaxy, controlled by a mysterious alien somewhere aboard the ship. Engineering has been taken over by Klingons who have cut off life-support systems. Mister Sulu.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Get down to emergency manual control. Try to protect our life-support circuits and auxiliary power.
SULU: Aye, Captain.
SCOTT: Sir. Chekov was right, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, I'm glad you've come.
SCOTT: We should have left those fuzz-faced goons in the transporter. That's right where they belong!
KIRK: Scotty?
SCOTT: Non-existence! Now they can study the Enterprise, add our technology to theirs, change the balance of power. You've jeopardized the Federation!
KIRK: Scotty, take it easy.
SPOCK: Easy, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Keep your Vulcan hands off me. Just keep away! Your feelings might be hurt, you green-blooded half-breed!
SPOCK: May I say that I have not thoroughly enjoyed serving with humans? I find their illogic and foolish emotions a constant irritant.
SCOTT: Then transfer out, freak!
KIRK: Gentlemen! Spock! Scotty. Spock. Spock! Stop it! You're half human! What are we saying? What are we doing to each other?
SPOCK: Fascinating. The result of stress?
KIRK: We've been under stress before. It's never set us at each other's throats.
SCOTT: But this is war.
KIRK: There isn't any war! Or is there?
SCOTT: Have we forgotten how to defend ourselves?
KIRK: Scotty. What's happening to us? We've been trained to think in other terms than war. We've been trained to fight its causes, if necessary. Then why are we behaving like a group of savages? Look at me. Look at me. Two forces aboard this ship, each of them equally armed. Has a war been staged for us, complete with weapons and ideology and patriotic drum beating? Even, Spock, even race hatred?
SPOCK: Recent events would seem to be directed toward a magnification of the basic hostilities between humans and Klingons. Apparently, it is by design that we fight. We seem to be pawns.
KIRK: But what's the game? And whose? And what are the rules?
SPOCK: It is most urgent that we locate the alien entity immediately, and determine its motives and a method for halting its activities.
SCOTT: Without sensors? All our power down? This thing could go anywhere.
KIRK: Yes. Mister Sulu, report.
SULU (voiceover): No good, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]
SULU: Circuits are in, but systems just aren't responding.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We're getting something.

[Jefferies tube]
SULU: Aye, Captain. Power and life-support restored. Remotes on standby.
KIRK (voiceover): Good work.
SCOTT: But, Captain, I didn't do it. Everything just came on by itself.

[Engineering]
MARA: Their life-support systems have resumed.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sensors may be operating.
KIRK: Start scanning. Let's find that alien.

[Engineering]
MARA: Holding steady.
KANG: Cause them to be unsteady.
MARA: They appear to be controlled from another location. Also unable to affect ship's course for return to our empire.
KANG: One of Kirk's tricks. Could he bypass this circuit? What power is it that supports our battle yet starves our victory? Power. Interrupt it at their main life-support couplings. Where?
MARA: Number six deck. Come.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Alien detected in the engineering section, near reactor number three.
KIRK: Let's go.

[Corridor]
CHEKOV: You don't die yet. You're not human, but you're very beautiful. Very beautiful.
KIRK: Chekov!
SPOCK: Jim, he's not responsible.
KIRK: What have I done? There's an alien entity aboard the ship. It's forcing us to fight. We don't want to. We don't know what its motive is. We're trying to find out. You must help us. Take me to Kang. A temporary truce, that's all I ask. Spock, take her.
KIRK: Chekov. Chekov. Is this what's in store for us, from here on in? Violence, hatred.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Brain waves show almost paranoid mania. What happened?
KIRK: He lost control. So did I. We're becoming animal warriors. Let's go, Spock.
MCCOY: Orderly. Jim. Johnson's heart wound is almost healed. Same with the other casualties. Sword wounds in the vital organs, massive trauma, shock. They're all healing at a fantastic rate.
SPOCK: It would appear that the entity wants us alive.
KIRK: Why? So we can fight, and fight, and keep coming back for more like some bloody coliseum? What's next, the roar of crowds?
SPOCK: Perhaps human and Klingon psychologies and combat capabilities are being tested by an alien with designs on both powers.
MCCOY: Gentlemen, if we are pawns, you're looking at one who is extremely sorry.
SPOCK: I understand, Doctor. I, too, felt a brief surge of racial bigotry. Most distasteful.
KIRK: Let's find the alien. You come with us. Maybe we can prove to you that it exists.

[Corridor]
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: Totally unfamiliar.
KIRK: What do you want? What are you doing here?
JOHNSON: Reporting for duty, sir.
KIRK: Duty? Did McCoy release you from Sickbay?
JOHNSON: I released myself.
KIRK: Then get back to Sickbay!
JOHNSON: Not on your life, sir. I'm fit and ready for action. The Klingons almost did me in once. I'm out to even the score.
KIRK: I order you
JOHNSON: I've got my orders. I'm obeying orders! Kill the Klingons! It's them or us, isn't it?
KIRK: Johnson!
SPOCK: Fascinating. During Lieutenant Johnson's emotional outburst, his expression of hatred and lust for vengeance, the alien's life energy level increased. When the Lieutenant became unconscious, the alien lost energy.
KIRK: It subsists on the emotions of others.
SPOCK: This one appears to be strengthened by mental irradiations of hostility, violent intentions.
KIRK: It exists on the hate of others.
SPOCK: To put it simply. And it has acted as a catalyst, creating this situation in order to satisfy that need. It has brought together opposing forces, provided crude instruments in an effort to promote the most violent mode of conflict.
KIRK: And kept numbers and resources balanced, so that it can maintain a constant state of violence. It's got to have a vulnerable area. We've got to get rid of it.
SPOCK: Then all hostile attitudes on board must be eliminated. The fighting must end and soon.
KIRK: Or we're a doomed ship, traveling forever between galaxies, filled with eternal bloodlust, eternal warfare. Kang has got to listen. We've got to pool our knowledge and get rid of this thing. Kang. Kang, this is Captain Kirk.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Kang, do you read me?

[Corridor]
MARA: Commander, it's a trick!
KIRK: Kang. He won't answer.
SPOCK: The alien is affecting his mind, Captain. Soon, it will become so powerful that none of us will be able to resist it.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scotty, sir.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The ship's dilithium crystals are deteriorating. We can't stop the process.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Time factor?
SCOTT (voiceover): In twelve minutes, we'll be totally without engine power.
KIRK: Well, do whatever you can. Kirk out.
KIRK: And so we drift in space, with only hatred and bloodshed aboard. Now do you believe?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate Armageddon. We must find a way to defeat the alien force of hate that has taken over the Enterprise. Stop the war now, or spend eternity in futile bloody violence.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: There's no change, Captain. The dilithium crystals are diskharging.
SPOCK: There's nothing we can do about it.
KIRK: If I could talk to Kang, somehow cut through the Klingon lines, make peace before it's too late.
SPOCK: We have nine minutes, fifty three seconds to power zero.
SPOCK: There is, of course, a logical alternative. Kang's wife is, after all, our prisoner. Perhaps a threat.
SCOTT: Aye. Now that's something the Klingons would understand.
KIRK: Kang! Kang, this is Captain Kirk.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): I know you can hear me, so don't cut me off. We have Mara, your wife. We talk truce now, or she dies. Reply.

[Bridge]
KIRK: She has five seconds to live. Reply.

[Engineering]
KANG: She is a victim of war, Captain.

[Bridge]
KANG (voiceover): She understands.
KIRK: He called my bluff.
MARA: You're not going
KIRK: The Federation doesn't kill or mistreat its prisoners. You've been listening to propaganda, fables. How much time?
SPOCK: Eight minutes, forty two seconds.
MARA: So this was no trick?
SCOTT: It's the alien that's done this. We're in its power, our people and yours.
KIRK: We only wanted to stop the fighting to save us all.
MARA: We have always fought. We must. We are hunters, Captain, tracking and taking what we need. There are poor planets in the Klingon systems, we must push outward if we are to survive.
KIRK: There's another way to survive. Mutual trust and help.
MARA: I will help you now.
KIRK: How?
MARA: I will take you to Kang. I will add my voice to yours.
SCOTT: I wouldn't trust her, Captain.
KIRK: We can't get through the Klingon defenses in time, unless. Spock. Intra-ship beaming from one section to another. It's possible?
SPOCK: It has rarely been done because of the danger involved. Pinpoint accuracy is required. If the transportee should materialize inside a solid object, a deck or wall.
SCOTT: Even if it could work, she may be leading you into a trap.
KIRK: We're all in a trap. This is the only way out.
SCOTT: We'll go with you.
KIRK: No. That'd start the final battle. I believe her. Prepare the transporter. We'll wait for your signal.
SCOTT: But she can't guarantee that Kang will stop to listen, right, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: No one can guarantee the actions of another.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK (voiceover): Your automatic setting is laid in, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: When transporter is energized, you will have eight seconds to get to the pads.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: I hope your computations are correct, Mister Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): You'll know in seven point nine seconds, Captain.

[Engineering]
KANG: Mara, you're alive, and you bring us a prize.
MARA: Kang, wait. He's come alone, unarmed. He must talk to you.
KANG: Brave captain, what about?
MARA: No! Listen to him. We are all in danger.
KIRK: Mara. Before you start killing, give me one minute.
MARA: Kang, don't!
KANG: What have they done to you, Mara? Are you out of your mind? What have they done to you? I see why the human beast did not kill you.
MARA: They didn't harm me. Listen to him. Stop! Stop, please!
KANG: With your death, we win.
KIRK: Nobody wins. Have any more of your men died? We can't be killed. There's an alien aboard. It wants us alive.
KANG: No doubt you will reassemble after I have hacked you to bits!
MARA: You fool.
KIRK: Look! Look, Kang. For the rest of our lives. A thousand lifetimes. Senseless violence, fighting, while an alien has total control over us.
KIRK: All right. All right. In the heart. In the head. I won't stay dead. Next time I'll do the same to you. I'll kill you. And it goes on, the good old game of war, pawn against pawn! Stopping the bad guys. While somewhere, something sits back and laughs and starts it all over again.
MCCOY: Let's jump him.
SPOCK: Those who hate and fight must stop themselves, Doctor. Otherwise, it is not stopped.
MARA: Kang, I am your wife. I'm a Klingon. Would I lie for them? Listen to Kirk. He is telling the truth.
KIRK: Be a pawn, be a toy, be a good soldier that never questions orders.
KANG: Klingons kill for their own purposes.
SPOCK: All fighting must end, Captain, to weaken the alien before our dilithium crystals are gone.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
KIRK: Put me on ship-wide intercom.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Kang.
UHURA (voiceover): Ready, Captain.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. A truce is ordered. The fighting is over. Lay down your weapons.
KANG: This is Kang. Cease hostilities. Disarm.
SPOCK: The cessation of violence appears to have weakened it, Captain. I suggest that good spirits might make an effective weapon.
KIRK: Get off my ship. You're a dead duck here. You're powerless. We know about you, and we don't want to play. Maybe there are others like you around. Maybe you've caused a lot of suffering, a lot of history, but that's all over. We'll be on guard now, ready for you. So ship out! Come on! Haul it!
MCCOY: Yeah, out already.
KANG: Out! We need no urging to hate humans. But for the present, only a fool fights in a burning house. Out! (To the sound of laughter, the weird light turns to white and leaves the Enterprise.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5784.2. We are responding to desperate distress calls from an unknown planet. My science officer Mister Spock is unable to account for this, since he reported no signs of life on the planet. It is rich in kironide deposits, a very rare and long-lasting source of great power.

[Room]
ALEXANDER (voiceover): Are you from the spaceship Enterprise?
KIRK: That's right.
ALEXANDER: Alexander, at your service. I sing, I dance, I play all variety of games, and I'm a good loser, a very good loser. Please, sir, try to bear that in mind. Now, would you please accompany me?
KIRK: Who are the inhabitants of this planet?
ALEXANDER: Oh, Platonians. I'm sure you've never heard of us. Our native star is Sahndara. Millennia ago, just before it went nova, we managed to escape. Our leader liked Plato's ideas Plato, Platonius. See? In fact, our present philosopher-king, Parmen, sometimes calls us Plato's children, although we sometimes think of ourselves more as Plato's stepchildren. Excuse me. Someone's waiting for you.

[Parmen's chamber]
PHILANA: Welcome to our republic. Whom among you is the physician?
MCCOY: I am. What's the problem?
PHILANA: My spouse. His leg. Come this way.
MCCOY: Well, what happened to that leg?
PARMEN: I suppose I scratched it.
MCCOY: I don't understand. This should have been attended to immediately.
PARMEN: Sheer ignorance. Is there anything you can do?
MCCOY: Well, we're certainly going to try. The infection is massive. Let me give you a hypo to ease the pain.
PARMEN: Where?
MCCOY: In the arm.
ALEXANDER: Philana, they came to help. They deserve better than to die.
PHILANA: Alexander, you talk too much.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5784.3. Doctor McCoy is endeavoring to treat the leader of a strange group of people. When their planet novaed, millennia ago, they transported themselves to Earth in the time of Socrates and Plato. After the death of the Greek civilisation they idolized, they came to this planet and created for themselves a utopia patterned after it.

[Parmen's chamber]
PARMEN: What is it? What is your prognosis, Doctor?
MCCOY: I'll let you know when I have the results. And from now on, it would be better if I handled the instruments without your help.
KIRK: Bones, I can't understand why a simple cut like that could become so serious.
MCCOY: Neither do I, but it has. How do I knock out an infection when the tricorder doesn't show any information on Platonius bacteria? All I can do, and this is going to take time, is to try to match his bugs with a known strain and hope.
ALEXANDER: Your Pan is in jeopardy.
ERACLITUS: It isn't now. I win.
DIONYD: Well played, Eraclitus.
ERACLITUS: I thank you, Dioniyde.
KIRK: This psychokinetic power of yours, how long have you had it?
PHILANA: Two and a half. Ever since our arrival here on Platonius.
SPOCK: How is the power transmitted?
PHILANA: Brain waves.
SPOCK: Do these waves cease while you are asleep?
PHILANA: No, not if they're embedded in the unconscious.
MCCOY: What about medicine? Why no doctors?
PHILANA: We haven't had any pressing need for the medical arts. You see, while still on Sahndara, we instituted a mass eugenics program. We're the result. Pared down to a population of thirty eight, we're perfect for our utopia. We're bred for contemplation and self-reliance. And longevity. How old would you say I am? Don't be afraid. I'm not vain.
SPOCK: Thirty five.
PHILANA: That old? I stopped aging at thirty. Well, anyway, you're off by two thousand years. I'm two thousand three hundred years old. We were married very young. I was only a hundred and seventeen, and he was a hundred and twenty eight. So you see, we scarcely have to move anymore, let alone work.
KIRK: That's why you have no resistance?
PHILANA: That's right. A break in the skin or a cut can be fatal.
SPOCK: Fascinating. I believe we're experiencing the psychokinetic manifestations of Parmen's delirium.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scott to Captain Kirk.

[Parmen's chamber]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, we're in the midst of a storm.

[Parmen's chamber]
SCOTT (voiceover): No diskernible cause, and I've never seen anything like it. There's

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Ten scale turbulence right now. Emergency gyros and stabilizers at maximum.

[Parmen's chamber]
SCOTT (voiceover): If this keeps up, Captain, we can't last!
KIRK: Engines at full speed. Get her out of orbit and into space.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I've tried that, sir. She's locked tight.

[Parmen's chamber]
KIRK: Then there's nothing you can do but batten down and weather.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Right, Captain.

[Parmen's chamber]
KIRK: Parmen's mind is not Watch it! He's not only throwing around furniture, he's tearing up the Enterprise as well. Bones, knock him out fast.
ALEXANDER: Help! Save me!
KIRK: Alexander. Stand behind me.
ALEXANDER: His mind will find me anyhow. Don't save him. Let him die. The others will kill each other trying to take his place.
KIRK: Hurry up with that shot!
PHILANA: Now, Doctor!
ALEXANDER: I can't breathe. I'm choking.
KIRK: Bones! Shake him. Break his concentration.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott on the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: It's all right, Captain. The turbulence has abated.

[Parmen's chamber]
KIRK: Good. I think you'll find the orbit lock is broken as well. Assess damage and repair whatever is necessary.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
PHILANA: I don't know how I can ever thank you, not only for Platonius, but for myself.
KIRK: No thanks is necessary.
PHILANA: Alexander, show our guests to the south wing.
KIRK: Oh, thank you, we must return to the ship.
MCCOY: I think I'd better wait until the fever breaks.
KIRK: Well, in that case, we'll stay.

[Guest room]
ALEXANDER: Anything you want, Just ask me. Anything.
KIRK: Thank you, Alexander.
ALEXANDER: Think nothing of it. You saved my life. I think I should tell you that
KIRK: Tell me what?
ALEXANDER: Well, just that I never knew any people like you existed.
KIRK: Where is everyone?
ALEXANDER: They're all in chambers, meditating.
KIRK: Alexander, are there other Platonians like you?
ALEXANDER: What do you mean, like me?
KIRK: Who don't have the psychokinetic ability.
ALEXANDER: I thought you were talking about my size, because they make fun of me for my size. But, to answer your question, I'm the only one without it. I was brought here as the court buffoon. That's why I'm everybody's slave and I have to be ten places at once, and I never do anything right.
SPOCK: How does one obtain the power?
ALEXANDER: As far as I know it just comes to you sometime after you're born. They say I'm a throwback, and I am, and so are you. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that.
KIRK: Don't worry about it. We're happy without it.
ALEXANDER: You know, I believe you are. Listen, where you come from, are there a lot of people without the power and my size?
KIRK: Alexander, where I come from, size, shape, or color makes no difference, and nobody has the power.
ALEXANDER: Nobody? Somebody wants me.
SPOCK: Captain, it will be very gratifying to leave here.
KIRK: That might not be easy should Parmen die.
SPOCK: Even if he shouldn't.
KIRK: Yes. This utopia of theirs is one of the best-kept secret in the galaxy. Screening themselves from our sensors, locking us into orbit. All this adds up to a pattern.
MCCOY: Jim, my concoction actually worked. The fever's broken. And what recuperative powers. The infection's begun to drain already.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, you may yet cure the common cold.
KIRK: If ever there was a time to get out of here, it is now. Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, come in.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scott here, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Prepare to beam us up.
SCOTT: I'm afraid I can't do that, sir. Everything's frozen.

[Guest room]
KIRK: The turbulence hit you that hard?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: It's not the turbulence, sir. Damage to the ship is minimal.
KIRK (voiceover): What caused it?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir, and those are the facts.

[Guest room]
KIRK: Did you get up into space?
SCOTT (voiceover): No, sir. The orbit's locked tighter than ever.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: And subspace communication with Starfleet, it's completely severed.

[Guest room]
KIRK: All right, Scotty. I'll handle it down here. Stand by.

[Parmen's chamber]
ALEXANDER: Great Pan sounds his horn. Marking time to the rhyme with his hoof, with his hoof. Forward, forward in our plan. We proceed as we began.
ALEXANDER: βρεκεκεκεξ κοαξ κοαξ
KIRK: Your Excellency.
PARMEN: Parmen will do. Philosopher kings have no need of titles.
KIRK: I would like to know why the ship's instrumentation and weaponry is frozen, and why the Enterprise is locked in orbit.
PARMEN: Captain, please. You are mistaken, I assure you.
KIRK: Parmen, I've talked to the engineer aboard the ship. We've showed our good faith. Now you show yours. I want this ship released immediately.
PARMEN: The amenities, Captain. Allow me to remind you that I am the head of this principality. Guests do not come barging in here, making demands and issuing orders.
KIRK: Guests? You don't know the meaning of the word. Guests aren't treated like common prisoners.
PARMEN: Do not take that tone with me.

[Guest room]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Acknowledge. Acknowledge. Enterprise, come in. Enterprise. I can't raise them.
SPOCK: Obviously Parmen does not wish any contact made with the Enterprise.
MCCOY: He may still need the ship's medical stores. Why prevent contact?
SPOCK: To shut out any knowledge of his brutal treatment of a Starfleet captain.
KIRK: No, Mister Spock. One thing for certain. Parmen is not concerned with my dignity or safety.
SPOCK: Agreed, Captain. And Parmen wouldn't have treated you so brutally if he had any intention of releasing you or the Enterprise.
KIRK: Where are you going?
MCCOY: I don't know. I don't want to go, but I can't help myself.

[Parmen's chamber]
PHILANA: Gentle spacemen, we are eternally in your debt. We've some trifles for you. Please accept them as tokens of our gratitude. They stem from the very source of our inspiration. To our noble captain, the shield carried by Pericles, as a symbol of gallant leadership.
PHILANA: To our silent and cerebral Mister Spock, this kithara to pluck music, to soothe his ever-active brow.
PHILANA: And lastly, to the physician Doctor McCoy, who saved Platonius and my spouse, this ancient collection of Greek cures, penned by Hippocrates himself.
KIRK: Has the Enterprise been released yet?
PARMEN: Captain, wait. I know what you're thinking. My humble apologies. You were badly used. In my own defense, allow me to say that my illness was more profoundly disturbing that I myself realized. I am sure that you, too, have been out of sorts and have been driven to fits of temper and rage. Unlike you, however, what I think and feel, whether for good or ill, is instantly translated into reality. So please, find it in your heart to forgive me.
KIRK: Certainly. Has the Enterprise been released yet?
PARMEN: It will be shortly.
KIRK: Then good day, and thank you for the presents.
PARMEN: Not at all. But there is one final request. After my nearly fatal infection, it has become obvious to us all that we cannot afford to be without a skilled physician. Therefore we should like you, Doctor McCoy, to remain.
MCCOY: I'm very sorry, but that's impossible.
PARMEN: Your duties will be extraordinarily light. You'll be free to read, meditate, conduct research, whatever you like. You'll want for nothing.
MCCOY: The answer is no.
PARMEN: We should like to keep it cordial, but we are determined to have you stay, Doctor.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy saved your life.
PARMEN: I am losing patience, Captain.
KIRK: And you consider yourself a diskiple of Plato?
PARMEN: We manage to live in peace and harmony.
SPOCK: Whose harmony? Yours? Plato wanted truth and beauty, and above all, justice.
PARMEN: My dear Mister Spock, I admit that circumstances have forced us to make a few adaptations of Plato, but ours is the most democratic society conceivable. Anyone can, at any moment, be or do anything he wishes, even to becoming ruler of Platonius if his mind is strong enough.
KIRK: And if his mind isn't strong enough, he gets torn apart like Alexander.
PARMEN: Oh, come now. We are not children. In your culture, justice is the will of the stronger. It is forced upon people by means of weapons and fleets of spaceships. Our justice is the will of the stronger mind, and I for one, consider it a vast improvement.
KIRK: We don't use our weapons for the kind of brutality you practice.
PARMEN: Farewell, Captain.
KIRK: Come on, Doctor. McCoy.
MCCOY: I can't move, Jim. They're going to keep me here no matter what. Leave, please.
KIRK: No. You're the doctor. They don't want to force you. They need your goodwill. They're trying
PARMEN: Captain, go while you still can.
KIRK: We're not leaving until McCoy is released.
PARMEN: This is not the Enterprise. You are not in command, captain.
PHILANA: Why even diskuss it? Get rid of them.
PARMEN: No, my dear. That might offend the good doctor. You wish to stay? By all means. You can help us celebrate our anniversary. In the process, I hope we can persuade you to join our tiny republic.
MCCOY: You won't persuade me.
PARMEN: I think we will.
KIRK: I'm Tweedledee, he's Tweedledum.
SPOCK: Two spacemen marching to a drum. KIRK +
SPOCK: We slith among the mimsey toves, and gyre among the borogoves.
KIRK: You're not staying, McCoy. No matter what he tries to
KIRK: Being your slave, what should I do but tend upon the hours and times of your desire? I have no precious time at all to spend, nor services to do, till you
MCCOY: Stop it! Don't do this to him, Parmen!
KIRK: McCoy. No matter what he makes me say or do, the answer's no.
MCCOY: No, Parmen! Stop it!
PARMEN: Well, Doctor?
MCCOY: I have my orders.
PARMEN: As you wish, Doctor.
KIRK: Is this your utopia, your grand vision of the future? You don't even
PARMEN: We've had enough or your moralizing.
MCCOY: And we've had too much of yours. I'll never get me to stay here.
PARMEN: You will be happy to stay. It takes a little time, Doctor, but you will be happy to stay.
MCCOY: He's a Vulcan. You can't force emotion out of him.
PHILANA: You must be joking, Doctor.
MCCOY: You'll destroy him.
PARMEN: We can't let him die laughing, can we?
MCCOY: I beg you.
KIRK: Spock. Spock. Don't let them break you. Hold on. Don't
ALEXANDER: Parmen, they saved your life. I'm ashamed to be a Platonian. Ashamed!
PARMEN: How can you let this go on?

[Guest room]
KIRK: Can you do anything for him?
MCCOY: There is no medicine that can help him. He'll have to come through this himself.
SPOCK: I trust they did not injure you too much, Captain.
KIRK: My muscles are sore, that's all.
SPOCK: The humiliation must have been most difficult for you to bear. I can understand.
MCCOY: The release of emotions, Mister Spock, is what keeps us healthy. Emotionally healthy, that is.
SPOCK: That may be, Doctor. However, I have noted that the healthy release of emotion is frequently very unhealthy for those closest to you.
KIRK: Which just goes to prove that there's no such thing as a perfect solution.
SPOCK: So it would seem. Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Spock.
SPOCK: Do you still feel anger toward Parmen?
KIRK: Great anger.
SPOCK: And you, Doctor?
MCCOY: Yes, Spock. And hatred.
SPOCK: Then you must release it, gentlemen, as I must master mine. I might have seriously injured you, Captain, even killed you. They have evoked such great hatred in me, I cannot allow it to go further. I must master it. I must control.
MCCOY: Jim. This is senseless. I've thought it over. I'm staying.
KIRK: You can't.
MCCOY: Parmen has promised me you'll be safe.
KIRK: Promised? Parmen? He'd let us beam up to the Enterprise, and plunge the ship back into the atmosphere.
MCCOY: Why? Why trick me?
KIRK: Because, if he killed us outright in front of you, you'd retaliate. You're a doctor. You have the means. Bones, I know you're trying to do the right thing, but if any one of us escaped, Parmen knows Starfleet would never let this planet go unpunished. Sacrifice yourself by agreeing to stay, and you sign our death warrant.
ALEXANDER: He's right. I should have warned you. They were treating you the same way they treat me. Just like me, only you fight them. All the time, I thought it was me, my mind that couldn't move a pebble. They even told I was lucky they bothered keep me around at all, and I believed them. The arms and legs of everybody's whim. Look down, don't meet their eyes. Smile. Smile. These great people, they were gods to me. But you showed me what they really are. And now I know, don't you see. It's not me, it's not my size, it's them! It's them! It's them!
KIRK: Put it down.
ALEXANDER: No. This is the best thing for them.
KIRK: Put it down. Do what I say.
ALEXANDER: I'm going to cut their I'm going to cut them. Parmen first, and they'll all get infected. But this time, listen, whatever they say, don't save them. Let them die.
KIRK: Give it to me!
ALEXANDER: At least let me give them a taste of what they gave me. Please, they're going to kill you anyway. You know that.
KIRK: In that case, what's the point in you dying too, Alexander? Give it to me.
ALEXANDER: That's the first time anybody ever thought of my life before his own. I should have told you when you first came here that they were going to kill you. Because I knew, but I was afraid. I was afraid.
KIRK: That's all right. It's all right, Alexander. Listen, we haven't given up, and there may be something you can do to help.
ALEXANDER: Anything I can do to help, you just tell me.
KIRK: All right. Did the Platonians always have this power?
ALEXANDER: No, not until we came to this planet.
SPOCK: Alexander, it is possible for you to recall how long after you arrived here that that power began to develop?
ALEXANDER: How could I forget that? It was exactly six months and fourteen days after we got here that they started pushing me around.
SPOCK: And would you know how many months' supplies you brought with you?
ALEXANDER: Well, four, I think. Or three.
SPOCK: That's close enough, Alexander. Fascinating. Their power developed two or three months after they started eating the native foods.
ALEXANDER: That's right.
SPOCK: Then it is logical to assume that there is a connection between the psychokinetic power and the eating of the native foods.
MCCOY: Then why wouldn't Alexander have the same power as the others?
SPOCK: Perhaps his system cannot absorb the crucial element.
KIRK: Bones, I think it'd be a good idea if you took a reading of Alexander's blood.
ALEXANDER: Not that I'm afraid or anything, but will it hurt much?
MCCOY: You won't even know it happened.
KIRK: You still have a tricorder reading of Parmen's blood, don't you?
MCCOY: Of course. Parmen possesses the highest order of psychokinetic ability, and Alexander the lowest, in the same environmental conditions.
SPOCK: The probabilities are that Alexander was born with some biochemical deficiency relative to Platonius.
MCCOY: I'll run both their blood samples through for a full comparative test on the tricorder.
KIRK: And if our theory works out, we've got a weapon.
MCCOY: The one significant difference between Parmen's blood and Alexander's is a concentration of kironide, broken down by pituitary hormone.
KIRK: Kironide. It's a high-energy source. That could be it.
SPOCK: The pituitary hormones confirm the hypothesis. They also regulate body growth.
ALEXANDER: Oh. You mean the same thing that kept me from having the power made me a dwarf?
SPOCK: Yes. It's also obvious why Parmen kept this little utopia secret. Anyone coming down here and remaining long enough would acquire the power.
KIRK: Exactly. McCoy, there must be a quick way of building up a concentration of kironide in our blood.
MCCOY: It'll take some doing, but it is possible.
KIRK: What are we waiting for?
KIRK: What is it, Bones?
MCCOY: Even if the kironide reaches the desired effect, it still may not help us get out of here.
KIRK: Yes. There are thirty eight of them.
SPOCK: The point is well taken. However, the psychokinetic power is not additive. If it were, considering the Platonians' hostile propensities, two or three of them would have combined forces centuries ago and deposed Parmen.
ALEXANDER: He's right. Do you know, Parmen says each has his own separate power frequency, because before when they've tried to combine their powers, and use them together, it never worked.
MCCOY: I'm ready.
KIRK: Let's not any waste time. Give us double the concentration in Parmen's bloodstream.
SPOCK: The time factor concerns me. It may take days or even weeks before there's enough build up from the kironide to be of any benefit to us.
KIRK: Yes. What about Alexander?
MCCOY: Since the kironide's broken down and injected directly into his bloodstream, it should work on him as well as us. Better in fact, because he's acclimated.
ALEXANDER: Oh, no. Not after what they've done to me.
KIRK: Why not? You could conceivably take Parmen's place and run the whole planet.
ALEXANDER: You think that's what I want? Become one of them? Become my own enemy? Just lie around like a big blob of nothing and have things done for me? I want to move around for myself. If I'm going to laugh or cry, I want do it for myself. You can keep your precious power. All I ask is one thing. If you do make it out of here, take me with you. Just drop me any place they never heard of kironide or Platonius.
KIRK: Alexander.
KIRK: Nurse. Lieutenant Uhura.
KIRK: I guess we weren't sufficiently entertaining.

[Entertainment Chamber]
CHAPEL: Are we ever glad to see you.
UHURA: We were forced in the transporter and beamed down. It was like becoming someone's puppet.
CHAPEL: I thought I was sleepwalking. I couldn't stop myself. Captain, what is it? What's going on?
KIRK: Spock, do you feel any effect of the kironide shot?
SPOCK: I have experienced a slight flush, Captain.
KIRK: So did l. Let's try a simple test. Concentrate on raising this plate of fruit. Nothing.
PARMEN: Fellow academicians. Twenty five hundred years ago, a band of hearty vagabonds arrived on this barren, rough-hewn planet. There was a desperate hardship of backbreaking toil. And then a divine providence graced our genius and our dedication with the power of powers. And through it, our every need instantly materialized. We thereupon determined to form a utopian brotherhood. This night is indeed a festive occasion, for tonight, we welcome into that brotherhood its first new member.
KIRK: Not yet, Parmen. You have to convince the doctor first.
MCCOY: They'll never do it, Jim.
PARMEN: Doctor, please. You have destroyed the festive mood of the ladies. We must recapture it at once. I know. What would be better than a serenade from the laughing spaceman?
SPOCK: Take care, young ladies, and value your wine. Be watchful of young men in their velvet prime. Deeply they'll swallow from your finest kegs. Then swiftly be gone leaving bitter dregs. Ah, bitter dregs. With smiling words and tender touch. Man offers little and asks for so much" He loves in the breathless excitement of night, then leaves with your treasure in cold morning light. Ah, in cold morning light"
PARMEN: And now let the revels begin.
DIONYD: Oh, how faithless and fickle.
ERACLITUS: Make up your minds.
CHAPEL: I'm so ashamed. Please make them stop.
SPOCK: We have tried.
CHAPEL: Please, please make them stop.
SPOCK: I haven't the power. I'm deeply sorry. We've failed you.
CHAPEL: For so long I've wanted to be close to you. Now all I want to crawl away and die.
DIONYD: Careful, Mister Spock. Too much love is dangerous.
ERACLITUS: Remember, Cupid's arrow kills Vulcans.
UHURA: I'm so frightened, Captain. I'm so very frightened.
KIRK: That's the way they want you to feel. It makes them think that they're alive.
UHURA: I know it, but I wish I could stop trembling.
KIRK: Try not to think of them. Try.
UHURA: I'm thinking. I'm thinking of all the times on the Enterprise when I was scared to death and I would see you so busy at your commands. And I would hear your voice from all the parts of the ship and my fears would fade. And now they are making me tremble. But I'm not afraid. I am not afraid. (As the camera closes in, Uhura's head is turned to obscure our view - and the lips don't quite touch.)
PHILANA: Parmen, let's get on with it.
PARMEN: You are so impatient, my wife. Observe the doctor and learn. He's quite content to wait for the piece de resistance.
KIRK: You're half dead, all of you! You've been dead for centuries. We may disappear tomorrow, but at least we're living now, and you can't stand that, can you? You're half crazy because there's nothing inside. Nothing. And you have to torture us to convince yourselves you're superior.
MCCOY: Stop it, Parmen! Stop it! I'll do whatever you want me to do. I'll stay and serve you, but stop it!
PHILANA: Parmen.
PARMEN: Alexander again. He likes to play with knives. Very well, we shall indulge him.
PARMEN: Who did that?
KIRK: I did.
ERACLITUS: Impossible!
SPOCK: Quite possible and logical.
DIONYD: What is this?
PHILANA: What's going on?
KIRK: Platonians, listen to me. The next one of you that tries any trick will get hurt. Not only do we have your psychokinetic abilities, but at twice your power level.
PARMEN: Not twice mine!
PARMEN: Captain, no! Captain! I beg of you, I'll do anything you say. I do not wish to die. Captain, do you hear me?
ALEXANDER: Don't stop me. Let me finish him off.
KIRK: Do you want to be like him?
ALEXANDER: Parmen, listen to me. I could have had your power, but I didn't want it. I could have had your place right now, but the sight of you and your Academicians sickens me. Despite your brains, you're the most contemptible things that ever lived in this universe.
PARMEN: Captain, you knew that I intended to destroy both you and the Enterprise, yet you spared me.
KIRK: To us, killing is murder, even for revenge. But there will be other starships.
PARMEN: There's no need for concern. They'll be safe. Of late, I have begun to think that we've become bizarre and unproductive. We are existing merely to nourish our own power. It's time for some fresh air. We shall welcome your interstellar visits.
KIRK: I don't believe you.
SPOCK: That would be highly uncharacteristic. We must expect, Parmen, that the moment we leave here, your fear would be gone and you would again be as sadistic and as arrogant as your twenty five hundred years have made you.
KIRK: Just remember, we can recreate that power in a matter of hours, so don't try anything.
PARMEN: Understood, Captain. And you're right, none of us can be trusted. Uncontrolled, power will turn even saints into savages, and we can all be counted upon to live down to our lowest impulses.
KIRK: You're very good at making speeches, Parmen. Just make sure that this one sinks in. Now move aside. Alexander. Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott, prepare to beam us up. I have a little surprise for you. I'm bringing a visitor aboard.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to Enterprise.

[Scalos]
KIRK: What do your sensors read?
SCOTT (voiceover): They register something, sir, but I'm blessed if I can figure out what it is.
KIRK: Specify.
SCOTT (voiceover): I can't get a fix on it. Sensors don't pinpoint a location. We may have a malfunction. I'm about to check circuits, sir.
KIRK: You do that. Lieutenant Uhura, does the location of the distress call correspond with this area

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Exactly?
UHURA: Yes, sir. I am still receiving visual contact. I can see them, but I can't see you.
KIRK (voiceover): Check co-ordinates. Is it the same area?
UHURA: Co-ordinates correspond, Captain.

[Scalos]
KIRK: Well, apart from the landing party, there's no one here. There are no Scalosians.
UHURA (voiceover): The distress call is very strong, Captain. They are pleading for immediate assistance.
KIRK: Check circuits for malfunctions. Kirk out.
MCCOY: It must be a malfunction. This is a barren world. There's hardly any vegetation, no apparent animal life.
KIRK: When we've run analysis, we should have some explanation. But there is an insect life.
MCCOY: My tricorder doesn't register it.
KIRK: It registers in my ears. Nothing, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Evidently a civilisation of high order, rating number seven on the industrial scale. Humanoid in appearance, according to the paintings. An abundance of literature, which I shall have translated and processed. Certain structures hold evidence of recent occupancy while others are apparently long abandoned.
KIRK: No sign of present life?
SPOCK: Instrument readings indicate life-form, but of a highly unusual and intermittent nature. They have no diskernible form or location. A most puzzling phenomenon, Captain. I shall have to study it further.
KIRK: Something was here. We saw them on the screen. Lieutenant Uhura is still getting a distress call. What happened?
SPOCK: Unknown at present, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, I want you to run a survey, a complete survey of the planet using all ship's available instruments.
MCCOY: Compton!
KIRK: What happened? MCCOY; I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and he. And he just wasn't there!

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, start a replay of the distress call. Scotty, are the transporter controls functioning now?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Is Mister Spock still down there?
KIRK: No, he's in Sickbay. Doctor McCoy is running a check on the landing party. What is it, Lieutenant?
UHURA: Malfunction, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, I would like
UHURA: Captain. It corrected itself.
SULU: Captain, there's some trouble on the hangar deck. The controls are frozen.
KIRK: Have repair crews been assigned?
SULU: Yes, sir.
UHURA: The tape is ready, sir.
KIRK: Play it.
RAEL (screen): To any and all space travelers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation. Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what has been happening to us. Our number is now five. We were once a nation of nine hundred thousand.
KIRK: Freeze it.
SPOCK: It is logical to assume that this distress call was pre-recorded. What we received was evidently a delayed taped message.
UHURA: That would explain our continuing to receive it while our sensors only picked up the landing party, sir.
KIRK: The fact remains, when we beamed down there we couldn't find these people. They were there, now they're not. Nor is Crewman Compton.
SPOCK: It would seem that some force or agent only partially diskernible to our instruments may have been responsible.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, I want the ship on standby alert while we continue the investigation.
SULU: Sir, now I have readings that deflectors are inoperative. The controls are frozen.
KIRK: Scotty, assist.
KIRK: Mister Spock, ever since we beamed up from Scalos, we've had a series of malfunctions. I want an investigation and an explanation.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy to Captain Kirk. Captain's presence for examination is requested.
KIRK: Can't it wait, Bones?
MCCOY (voiceover): Your orders, Jim. You're the last one.
KIRK: What do you read so far?
MCCOY (voiceover): Can we diskuss it here?
KIRK: On my way. Mister Spock, you have the conn.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: What is it?
MCCOY: Tell the captain what you told me.
CHAPEL: Something's going on, Captain. Somebody's opened all the medical supply cabinets.
KIRK: Anything missing?
CHAPEL: Just disordered, as though someone had picked up everything and examined it.
KIRK: Thank you.
MCCOY: Lie down, Jim.
KIRK: That fits in with other disturbances. Bones, what did your readings show up on the other men?
MCCOY: All perfectly normal. Whatever happened to Compton down there apparently had no effect on anyone else.
KIRK: Any of them report any unusual experience since beaming?
MCCOY: No. There's no mention of it.
MCCOY: I'm not finished yet.
KIRK: Hold on. Bones, could something be making me hallucinate?
MCCOY: What do you mean?
KIRK: I mean that twice before something touched me, and there was nothing there. And it's just happened again. Could I be imagining it?
MCCOY: Physically, there's nothing wrong with you.
KIRK: But am I hallucinating?
MCCOY: I'd say no.
KIRK: Then we did beam something aboard. Something has invaded the ship. Kirk to Spock. Come in. Spock, come in.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain, I have a reading from Life Support center
KIRK: Spock, I can't hear you. Check your circuits. Is there a malfunction?
UHURA (voiceover): Captain, intercom system is breaking down rapidly.
KIRK: Lieutenant, ship wide order. Use communicators instead of intercom. Issue phasers to all crew members. Spock, repeat.
SPOCK: I have a reading from Life Support center. Alien substances being introduced.
KIRK: Meet me there on the double.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: It is a force field, Captain, the nature of which I'm not familiar with. I'm getting readings of an alien presence similar to those obtained on the planet's surface, but they seem to have no exact location.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Sweep the area.
SPOCK: It would seem, Captain, that they intend to allow only the two of us to enter. I should advise caution.

[Environmental Engineering]
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. But it is evidently a device of alien origin.
KIRK: Hooked into the life support. Designed to affect it.
SPOCK: Life support is still operating. I would say that the installlation is incomplete.
KIRK: Diskonnect it. Destroy it.
KIRK: That was no force field. Something shoved me back. They're in here. You! What are you doing on my ship? Show yourselves!
SPOCK: It seems that we may look at it, Captain, but that is all.
KIRK: A show of strength.
SPOCK: Yes. Evidently they are convinced that we can do nothing to stop them, and they wish to impress upon us what they can do to us.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Have your readings been fed into the computer?
SPOCK: Affirmative.
KIRK: Read out.
SPOCK: Computer, analyze and reply. Have we been invaded?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
SPOCK: Nature and description of enemy forces.
COMPUTER: Data insufficient.
SPOCK: Number of enemy forces.
COMPUTER: Data insufficient.
SPOCK: Purpose of the invasion?
COMPUTER: Immediate purpose, seizure and control of Federation Star ship Enterprise and crew. Data insufficient for determination of end purpose.
SPOCK: Is there a connection between this and Compton's disappearance?
COMPUTER: Data insufficient.
SPOCK: Are we at present capable of resisting?
COMPUTER: Negative.
SPOCK: Your recommendation?
COMPUTER: If incapable of resistance, negotiate for terms.
KIRK: We will not negotiate. Do you concur?
SCOTT: Aye.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Your recommendations, Captain?
KIRK: Yeoman, is that coffee available, or have those circuits been damaged as well? My recommendation? Make them take the next step. then everything around him slows down and finally stops.)
KIRK: Spock?
DEELA: Captain.
KIRK: Would you mind explaining Who are you?
DEELA: Deela. The enemy.
KIRK: You're the enemy?
DEELA: Yes. You beamed me aboard yourself when you came up. A ridiculously long process, but I've taken care of it.
KIRK: What have you done with my men?
DEELA: Nothing.
KIRK: Nothing? Mister Spock? Scotty. This is nothing?
DEELA: There's really nothing wrong with them. They are just as they have always been. It's you who are different.
KIRK: Lieutenant. Sulu. This is nothing?
DEELA: They cannot hear you, Captain. To their ears, you sound like an insect. That's your description, Captain. Accurate, if unflattering. Really, there is nothing wrong with them.
KIRK: What have you done?
DEELA: Changed you. So you are like me now. Your crew cannot see you or any of us because of the acceleration. We move in the wink of an eye. Oh, there is a scientific explanation for it, but all that really matters is that you can see me and talk to me, and we can go on from there.
KIRK: Why?
DEELA: Because I like you. Didn't you guess? Or are you so accustomed to being kissed by invisible women?
KIRK: Deela. Is this why you sabotaged my ship?
DEELA: Oh, but it has not been sabotaged. We we had to make some changes in it to adjust it to us.
KIRK: You said we?
DEELA: Yes. Of course. My chief scientist and his crew. I am their queen. You are going to be their king. You'll enjoy living on Scalos.
KIRK: What about my ship? My crew?
DEELA: Oh, in a few of their moments, they will realize that you've vanished. They will look for you, but they will not find you. You're accelerated far beyond their power to see. So they'll go on without you. Don't be so stubborn. You cannot go back to them, ever. Is it so dreadful a prospect?
KIRK: This won't kill you, but the stun effect is not very pleasant.
DEELA: But that won't work. You go ahead and try. Point it right at me.
DEELA: My reactions are much too fast for such a crude weapon. And I am quite good at self-defense, too. This can be set for stun and destroy, too, like yours. Please, accept what has happened. There is nothing you can do to change it.
KIRK: If I agree to go with you, will you set this ship to rights? Take out that device in the life-support system?
DEELA: Don't be so silly. You'll feel better about it all in a little while. It always happens this way. They are very upset at first, then it wears off and they, they learn to like it. You will, too. (Kirk leaves}
DEELA: He's on his way to you. Be gentle with him.
UHURA: Captain. Captain Kirk! He's gone!
SPOCK: Lieutenant, did you see what happened?
UHURA: Well, he was sitting there. He'd just drunk his coffee and set his cup down. You see it's still there. And then he vanished.
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, do you verify?
SULU: That's just what happened. He was there, then all of a sudden he wasn't there.

[Corridor]
COMPTON: Captain Kirk, you've made it.
KIRK: Compton, did they accelerate you?
COMPTON: Yes, sir.
KIRK: They hooked something into the life support system. They're in there. We've got to get rid of it.
COMPTON: I'm sorry, sir. Entry is forbidden.
KIRK: By whose order?
COMPTON: The commander, sir. You'll have to step back, please.
KIRK: I'm your commander, Compton. I order you to let me in.
COMPTON: I'm sorry, sir. You are no longer.
KIRK: Who is? Deela? Is that who you're working for?
COMPTON: At first I refused, but then after a while I found I couldn't help myself. I met this girl. She's one of them. I've never known anyone like her. She brought me aboard to show them operation of the ship. Bridge controls, life support. She explained that they wanted to know. I didn't understand at first, but I do now. So will you, sir.
KIRK: All right, Compton.

[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: Stun.
RAEL: You were ordered to stop him. Why did you disobey?
COMPTON: I tried to stop him. You hurt him.
RAEL: He was violent. He had to be subdued.
COMPTON: He was my captain.
EKOR: Cell damage.
RAEL: Another will be secured for you.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I'm getting a trace reading similar to that on the planet. Mister Sulu, did you drink your coffee?
SULU: Yes.
SPOCK: Did anyone else?
SCOTT: I had some.
SPOCK: May I?
SCOTT: Was it the coffee? Are we going to go too, just like the captain?
SPOCK: I cannot give you that answer until these have been analyzed.
SCOTT: By that time it'll be too late.
SPOCK: I suggest that we recall the captain's words, Make them take the next step. It would seem they have taken it. And we must determine effective countermeasures. Mister Scott, you have the conn. I shall be in the medical lab.

[Environmental Engineering]
DEELA: I hate what happens to them when they're damaged. You're going to have to learn to control your temper, Rael. I do not want that to happen to this one. If they are so stubborn a species, perhaps they will last longer.
RAEL: It may be.
DEELA: I hope so. They all go so soon. I want to keep this one a long time. He's pretty.
RAEL: He is inferior, Deela.
DEELA: Oh? I don't think so.
RAEL: You cannot allow yourself to feel an attachment to such.
DEELA: I can allow myself anything I want. Oh, Rael, don't be like that. Am I jealous of what you do?
RAEL: I do my duty.
DEELA: So do I. And sometimes I allow myself to enjoy it.
DEELA: Hello.
KIRK: What is that device doing on my ship?
RAEL: Deela will explain it.
DEELA: I will tell you anything you want to know, and you'll approve of it.
KIRK: Approve of it? We're your prisoners.
DEELA: Hardly. You're free to go anywhere you want to.
RAEL: Go ahead, Captain. It is not yet completely linked to your support system, but it is in operating order. Study it if you wish. I suggest that you do not touch it.
DEELA: He told you not to touch it. Look at your hands. They're almost frozen, aren't they? It will pass.
RAEL: The unit has its own self-defense mechanism, as you see. You should've heeded me.
RAEL: In your struggle with Compton, some of his cells were damaged. Those newly accelerated to our level are sensitive to cell damage. They age rapidly and die.
KIRK: He was so young.
RAEL: Was.
KIRK: This is what you have planned for us?
DEELA: We all die, even on Scalos.
DEELA: Why did you lie to him? He did not damage that one, you did.
RAEL: Perhaps he will be less violent now.
DEELA: I see no reason to make him feel any worse than he has to.
RAEL: Why do you care what he feels?
DEELA: Rael, he's not one of us. He's temporary. He's gone to the medical laboratory. He's trying to communicate with the Vulcan. His species is capable of much affection.
RAEL: I have noted that.
DEELA: I wonder if they will demonstrate it to us. Oh, Rael, stop sulking. Accept it. We've had to accept it all our lives. Don't make it worse.
DEELA: Go back to work.

[Medical Lab]
KIRK: Kirk to Spock, I have fed all the ascertainable facts into the computer banks.
DEELA: Go ahead. You won't accomplish anything, but it may be historically valuable.
KIRK: Hyperacceleration is the key. I have counted only five of them aboard, but they have taken over the ship, and we are under their control due to this acceleration. They are able to speed others up to their level, as they did Compton and me. Presumably, this is enslavement? Those so treated exist at this accelerated level, becoming docile eventually. But when
DEELA: Damaged.
KIRK: Damaged, they age incredibly fast, as though accelerated living
DEELA: Burns them out.
KIRK: Burns them out. Compton was burned out. The device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze for purposes only the Scalosians know.
DEELA: Quite correct.
KIRK: The unit has a protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative.
DEELA: The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late. You have remarkable reasoning powers, Captain. You were quite right in almost every assumption.
KIRK: Why are you doing this?
DEELA: Do you really want to know? In a little while it won't matter to you at all. You'll be quite happy about it, Just as Compton was.
KIRK: I really want to know.
DEELA: Oh, dear. You are so stubborn. It should be obvious to you that we're doing it because we have to. A long time ago, it is in our history, we used to be like you. Then our country was almost destroyed by volcanic eruptions. The water was polluted. Radiation was released. That changed us. It accelerated us. The children died. Most of the women found they could not have more. All of our men had become sterile. So we had to mate outside our own people. Whenever a spaceship came by, we'd send our calls for help. But accelerating them to our level burned them out. Don't you see, Captain? Do I have to go into every detail? We are going to take you down with us. Perhaps one or two others of your crew. We have to. We'll be kind to you. I wouldn't hurt you, certainly. I do like you.
KIRK: What about the rest of my crew?
DEELA: They'll remain here in suspended animation. It will do them no harm. We are saving them for when we need them in the future. You will not last forever. You know that, Captain. Captain, we have the right to survive.
KIRK: Not by killing others.
DEELA: You were doing exactly the same thing. You came charging into that life-support room the minute you knew there was trouble. You would have killed every one my people if you could have.
KIRK: You invaded my ship. You threaten my crew.
DEELA: There is no difference.
KIRK: There is a difference! Your trouble is in you.
DEELA: We did not ask for it. We are not to blame. We are handling it the only way we know how. The way our parents and their parents before them.
KIRK: Did they solve anything? Have you tried any other way? Deela, have your scientists diskonnect, destroy that unit. I promise you, we'll use every skill we have to help you. We'll move you to another planet. We'll call on the most brilliant minds in our Federation to help. We'll do it
DEELA: We have tried other ways. We've tried to make the transition to your level. Some of us, that is. Those who made the attempt died. We are trapped, Captain, Just as you are trapped now. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to you, but I cannot change it. You cannot change me.
RAEL (voiceover): Go to the transporter room, Deela. Signal me when you're there and beam down.
DEELA: With the captain?
RAEL (voiceover): Yes. I'll activate our unit and follow you. I'm setting it to allow all of us time to get off the ship. Please don't delay.
DEELA: Just what makes you think I would do that? The captain's gone.

[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: Go after him, Deela.

[Medical Lab]
MCCOY: There's no question about it, Spock. I want you to take a look at this. The same substance is in the captain's coffee as in the Scalosian water, and there's no trace of it in any other cups.

[Transporter room]
DEELA: Why did you run?
KIRK: I panicked.
DEELA: I don't believe that.
KIRK: I'd like to leave before he activates the suspended animation device.
DEELA: We're in the transporter room. You can activate.
RAEL (voiceover): Beam him down at once.
DEELA: Captain.
DEELA: What have you done to the transporter, Captain?
KIRK: It was working before. Try it again.
DEELA: The transporter isn't working.

[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: What'd he do to it?
DEELA (voiceover): Nothing. He didn't have time.

[Transporter room]
DEELA: It must be a, what do you call it? A malfunction. You'd better not activate the unit yet. What would you say it is, Captain?
KIRK: The technicians reported a loss of power. That must be it.
DEELA: The captain says his technicians
RAEL (voiceover): I heard him. You expect me to believe him?
DEELA: I expect you to check into all possible causes. If I had a suspicious nature, Captain, I would say that you sabotaged the transporter to buy time.
KIRK: Yes, of course.
DEELA: I'm glad we're both innocents. I despise devious people, don't you?
KIRK: I believe in honest relationships myself.

[Medical lab]
SPOCK: Nurse, program the information and determine whether we can find counteragents. Doctor, did you just
MCCOY: I've been hearing that whine ever since we beamed down to Scalos.
SPOCK: I know what it is. We brought it with us from Scalos. If you'll excuse me, I shall be on the bridge.

[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Your quarters are quite like you, Captain. Austere and efficient, and in their own way, handsome.
KIRK: A room should reflect its occupant.
DEELA: Absolutely. May I freshen up? All this rushing about has left me windblown. I'm glad to see you allow yourself some comforts. Are you married, Captain? No family? No attachments? I know. You're married to your career, and you never look at another woman.
KIRK: Well, if she's pretty enough, I'll look.
DEELA: I wondered when you'd say something nice to me. Am I more presentable now?
KIRK: A bit.
DEELA: It was quite delightful kissing you when you couldn't see me. But now
KIRK: But now.
DEELA: No. I wouldn't allow you to take that no matter how much we trust each other. But I would've been disappointed if you hadn't tried.
KIRK: Was I too crude?
DEELA: Just don't try it again. You're far too vulnerable to skin damage. All I have to do is scratch you.
KIRK: Yes. I know.
DEELA: The difference between us is that you will come around to our way of thinking sooner or later. But it's better sooner than later.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant, will you replay the Scalosian distress call on my viewer?
UHURA: Aye, sir.
RAEL (screen): To any and all space travelers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation.
MCCOY (screen): Compton!
KIRK (screen): What happened?
MCCOY (screen): I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and then he just wasn't there
RAEL (screen): Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. Nation of nine hundred thousand. City alone holding one hundred thirteen thousand. On which existed several culturally enlightened Indigenous population
KIRK (screen): There is an insect life.
MCCOY (screen): My tricorder doesn't register it.
KIRK (screen): My ears register it.
MCCOY (screen): This is a barren world. Limited vegetation, no apparent animal life.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: McCoy to Spock.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here.
MCCOY: I've found a tape in the computer down here, and when I try to read it, all I get is a whine.
SPOCK (voiceover): Bring it to the bridge at once, Doctor.

[Bridge]
KIRK (screen): This device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze. The unit has protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative.
DEELA (voiceover): The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, notify the rest of the crew.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
SCOTT: Can we use phasers to cut through that wall, bypass the force field and get at that unit?
SPOCK: Mister Scott, we cannot cope with them on our level.
SCOTT: Can we find some way of coping with them on theirs?
SPOCK: That is a very logical suggestion. Stand by in the transporter room.

[Transporter room]
EKOR: There's nothing wrong elsewhere, sir. Sufficient energy for beaming down.
RAEL: This is the only damage? Go get the others and bring them up here. Deela. Deela? Deela!

[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Rael!
DEELA: Rael, stop.
KIRK: No.
DEELA: Now, stop it. Did he damage you, Captain?
KIRK: No.
DEELA: How very fortunate for you, Rael. Don't you dare do anything like that again. It's contemptible.
RAEL: Then don't torment me. You know how I feel.
DEELA: I don't care what your feelings are. I don't want to know that aspect of it. What I do is necessary, and you have no right to question it. Allow me the dignity of liking the man I select. Is the transporter repaired?
RAEL: No. I have more work to do.
DEELA: Don't you think you'd better do it?
DEELA: He loves me. I adored him when I was a child. I suppose I still do. I must say, you behaved better than he did.
KIRK: Yes, I hope so.
DEELA: What did you say?
KIRK: I said I hoped I behaved correctly.
DEELA: And nothing bothers you now?
KIRK: Why are we here?
DEELA: Our leaving was delayed. Don't you remember? You damaged the transporter.
KIRK: Oh, yes. That was wrong of me.
DEELA: Yes, it certainly was.
KIRK: But we are going to Scalos?
DEELA: Do you want to?
KIRK: Oh, yes.
DEELA: What about your crew? Aren't you worried about them?
KIRK: They'll be all right.
DEELA: Oh.
KIRK: What's the matter?
DEELA: Nothing. You've completely accepted the situation, haven't you? You even like it.
KIRK: Am I behaving incorrectly?
DEELA: No! I liked you better before. Stubborn and irritating and independent, like Rael.
KIRK: Those are undesirable qualities.
DEELA: Maybe that's why I liked you so much. Because you were like him. Rael? You don't have to worry about the captain. He's made the adjustment.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: Finished.
SPOCK: Yes, it counteracts the substance most effectively.
MCCOY: Most effectively under laboratory conditions, but the question is will it work in the human body? And the second question is, how do we get it to the captain?
SPOCK: By drinking the Scalosian water.
MCCOY: Spock, you don't know what that'll do to you.
SPOCK: It is somewhat stimulating. You seem to be moving very slowly, Doctor. Fascinating.
CHAPEL: He's gone.
MCCOY: Just like Compton.

[Transporter room]
RAEL: I've beamed the others down.
DEELA (voiceover): Is it repaired already?

[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Why didn't you tell me?

[Transporter room]
RAEL: It would've been an intrusion. Come up when you wish. Signal me when you are ready.

[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Where will you be?
RAEL (voiceover): In life support. I have to activate our unit.
DEELA: Rael, wait. I'm sorry.

[Transporter room]
RAEL: I know.
DEELA: Well, come, Captain. It's time to leave your pretty ship.

[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: The unit is activated, Deela. Beam down at once.

[Transporter room]
DEELA: Your crew will be all right. You said so yourself.
KIRK: I'm sorry.
DEELA: He's broken away. He's armed.

[Environmental Engineering]
DEELA: You are very clever, Captain. You tricked me. I should've known that you would never adjust. What shall we expect from you now?
KIRK: We could put you in suspended animation until we determine what to do with you.
DEELA: Your survival does not depend on that.
KIRK: No, it doesn't. What do you want us to do with you?
DEELA: Don't make a game of it, Captain. We've lost.
KIRK: If I sent you to Scalos, you'd undoubtedly play the same trick on the next spaceship that passed by.
DEELA: There won't be any others. You'll warn them. Your federation will quarantine the entire area.
KIRK: Yes, I suppose it would.
DEELA: And we will die and solve your problem that way. And ours.

[Transporter room]
DEELA: Now, what about your problem, Captain, and your Vulcan friend?
SPOCK: If you will devote yourself exclusively to the concerns of Scalos, madam, we shall be pleased to remain and take care of the Enterprise.
DEELA: You could still find life on Scalos very pleasant.
KIRK: And very brief.
DEELA: It'll be just as brief here. You cannot get back to your own level. No answer, Captain? Do I displease you so much?
KIRK: Oh, no. I can think of nothing I'd rather do than stay with you. Except staying alive.
KIRK: Energize.
DEELA: Goodbye, Captain.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, what have you got?
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy and I have synthesized a possible counteragent to the Scalosian water. Regrettably, we did not have the opportunity to test it.
KIRK: Let's test it. Nothing's happening.
SPOCK: You do seem to be moving very slowly, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SCOTT: Captain Kirk, where the blazes did you come from?
KIRK: Out of the nowhere into the here.
SCOTT: And Mister Spock, is he coming too?
KIRK: Scotty.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 5710.9. Mister Spock has remained in accelerated time so that he might repair the ship more rapidly.
SULU: Somebody's repairing every console on the ship.
SCOTT: This panel is being recircuited at incredible speed.
KIRK: I think we've located Mister Spock. Lieutenant, are your circuits clearing?
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Cancel Red Alert, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Open all channels. Captain to crew. Repairs are now being effected by Mister Spock. The ship will resume normal operations almost immediately.
KIRK: Mister Spock, my compliments to your repair work and yourself.
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain. I found it an accelerating experience.
KIRK: Yes. No malfunctions anywhere? Lieutenant.
UHURA: I'm sorry, sir. I touched the tape button accidentally. I'll take it off.
KIRK: That's no malfunction.
UHURA: No, sir.
KIRK: Goodbye Deela.

[Bridge]
KIRK: A ghost planet?
SPOCK: I suggest no supernatural explanation, Captain. I merely point out that the facts do not fit any known categories of planets.
KIRK: Let's take the facts one by one. That should explain something.
SPOCK: Undoubtedly. The age of this planet would seem to be only a few thousand years. It would be impossible for vegetation to evolve in so short a period.
KIRK: Its size is approximately that of Earth's moon.
SPOCK: But its mass and atmosphere are similar to Earth.
KIRK: That would be difficult to explain.
SPOCK: It would be impossible, Captain. An atmosphere could not evolve in so short a period of time.
KIRK: And yet it has.
SPOCK: Evidently. But the inconsistencies are so compounded as to present a seemingly impossible phenomenon.
KIRK: But a fascinating one, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Precisely, Captain.
KIRK: It would bear closer investigation, it would seem, if we're to provide Starfleet with an accurate report. Lieutenant, send Doctor McCoy to the transporter room for survey party. We'll also need Senior Geologist D'Amato.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Feed beam down co-ordinates to the transporter room. Mister Sulu, you'll accompany me. Mister Spock, you have the conn.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Rahda, report to the bridge immediately.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: This expedition should be a geologist's dream, Mister D'Amato.
D'AMATO: The opportunity to explore so young a planet is an incredible bit of luck, Captain.
KIRK: Yes. If Mister Spock is correct, you'll have a report to startle the Fifth Interstellar Geophysical Conference.
MCCOY: Why? What is it, Jim?
KIRK: A planet that even Spock can't explain. Prepare to transport. Energize.
LOSIRA: Wait! You must not go!

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Jim, did you see what I saw?
KIRK: That woman attacked Ensign Wyatt.
D'AMATO: Captain. Captain!

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Spock! Are you all right?
SPOCK: Yes. I believe no permanent damage was done.
UHURA: What happened?
SPOCK: The occipital area of my head seems to have impacted with the chair.
UHURA: No, Mister Spock. I meant what happened to us?
SPOCK: That we have yet to ascertain.
RAHDA: Mister Spock. The planet's gone!

[Planet surface]
SULU: What kind of earthquakes do they have in this place?
KIRK: I don't know. Any more like that and they'll tear this planet apart.
D'AMATO: Captain, this tremor we felt, if that's what it was, it's certainly like no seismic disturbance I've ever felt before. I got a reading of almost immeasurable power, but it's not there any more.
KIRK: Could seismic stress have accounted for it?
D'AMATO: The reading I got had nothing to do with a seismic force.
KIRK: That's very strange. And that woman. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. The shock may have damaged it.
SULU: It's gone! The Enterprise, it's gone!
D'AMATO: He's right, Captain. There's nothing there.
MCCOY: How could it be gone? What the devil does that mean, Jim?
KIRK: For one thing it means we're stranded.
SULU: The Enterprise must have blown up. That would explain the high radiation readings, wouldn't it, Captain? If the matter - antimatter engines
KIRK: Shall we stop guessing, Mister Sulu, and try and establish a pattern? I get no readings of high energy concentration. If the Enterprise had blown up, it would have left a high residual radiation.
MCCOY: Could it be the Enterprise hit the planet?
SULU: Once in Siberia there was a meteor so great that it flattened whole forests and was felt as far away as
KIRK: Mister Sulu, if I'd wanted a Russian history lesson, I'd have brought along Mister Chekov. This is a matter of survival, gentlemen. Without the Enterprise, we need food, and we need water, and we need them fast. I want a detailed analysis made of this planet, and I want it now.
SULU: Aye, sir.
D'AMATO: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Engineering, no damage. All power levels normal.
UHURA: Damage control report. Ship functioning normally. Many bumps and bruises. One casualty, Mister Spock. The transporter officer, he's dead. SPOCK; Dead? Spock to Sickbay.
M'BENGA (voiceover): Sickbay, Doctor M'Benga.
SPOCK: Report on the death of the transporter officer.

[McCoy's office]
M'BENGA: We're not sure. Doctor Sanchez is conducting an autopsy right now.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Give me a full report as soon as possible, please. Spock out. Mister Scott, have the transporter checked for possible malfunction.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
RAHDA: No debris of any kind, sir. I've made two full scans. If the planet had broken up, there'd be some sign. But what bothers me is the stars, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: The stars.
RAHDA: Yes, sir. They're wrong.
SPOCK: Wrong?
RAHDA: Yes, Mister Spock. Look. Now here's a replay of the star pattern just before the explosion.
SPOCK: A positional change.
RAHDA: It doesn't make any sense. But somehow I'd say that in a flash we've been knocked one thousand light years away from where we were.
SPOCK: Nine hundred and ninety point seven light years to be exact, Lieutenant.
SCOTT: But that's not possible. Nothing can do that.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, since we are here, your statement is not only illogical but also unworthy of refutation. It is also illogical to assume that any explosion, even that of a small star going supernova, could have hurled us a distance of nine hundred and ninety point seven light years.
SCOTT: The point is, it shouldn't have hurled us anywhere. Why, it should have destroyed us immediately, vaporized us.
SPOCK: That is correct, Mister Scott, by all the laws that we know. There was no period of unconsciousness. Our ship's chronometers registered a matter of only a few seconds. Therefore, we were displaced through space in some manner which I am unable to fathom.
SCOTT: What you're saying is that the planet didn't blow up, and the captain and the others, they're still alive!
SPOCK: Please, Mister Scott, restrain your leaps of illogic. I have said nothing. I was merely speculating.
M'BENGA (voiceover): Sickbay to Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here.

[McCoy's office]
M'BENGA: You asked for an autopsy report. It's only preliminary, but the cause of death seems to have been cellular disruption.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Explain.

[McCoy's office]
M'BENGA: It's as though every cell in the body had been individually blasted from inside.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Would any known disease organism do that?

[McCoy's office]
M'BENGA: Doctor Sanchez has ruled that possibility out, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Please keep me fully advised. Spock out. He was in the transporter room. Someone may have entered after Captain Kirk and his party left. Mister Scott, since the Enterprise is obviously functional, I suggest we return to our starting place at top warp speed.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. But even at that it'll take a while to get there.
SPOCK: In that case, Mister Scott, I suggest we start at once. Can you give me warp eight?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. And maybe a wee bit more. I'll sit on the warp engines myself and nurse them.
SPOCK: That position, Mister Scott, would not only be unavailing but also undignified. Lieutenant Rahda, plot a course.
RAHDA: Already plotted and laid in, sir.
SPOCK: Good. Then prepare to come to warp eight.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Your report covers all vegetation?
SULU: Yes, Captain. All vegetation is inedible. Poison to us.
MCCOY: If the Enterprise has been destroyed, you know how long we can survive.
KIRK: Yes. I don't see any water, but there must be some to grow the vegetation. A source of water would stretch our survival. Did you see any evidence of rainfall?
D'AMATO: No, sir. And I haven't seen any evidence that there ever has been any rainfall.
KIRK: But there is earth-type vegetation.
MCCOY: Is it possible the vegetation could absorb the water directly from the air?
KIRK: Yes, that's possible. There's also the possibility of underground water.
D'AMATO: Yes, sir. Could be.
MCCOY: Sulu's picked up an organism that's almost a virus, like a a plant parasite. It's the nearest biological form of life I can find.
KIRK: This apparently is going to be our home for as long as we last. I suggest we find out as much as we can about it. Split up. D'Amato, see if you can find underground water.
D'AMATO: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Sulu, run an atmospheric analysis.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Bones, see if you can find out anything about the vegetation and your parasite. How do they get their moisture? If you can diskover how they survive, maybe we can.
SULU: Sulu to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SULU: Captain, I was making a standard magnetic sweep. From zero, I suddenly got a reading that was off the scale. Then, a reverse of polarity and now I get nothing. I've never seen anything like this reading. Like a door opened and then closed again.
KIRK: Kirk out.
LOSIRA: Do not be afraid.
D'AMATO: I'm not. Geological disturbances don't frighten me. I've come here to study them. My specialty.
LOSIRA: I know. You are Lieutenant D'Amato, Senior Geologist.
D'AMATO: That's right. How did you know that?
LOSIRA: From the spaceship Enterprise.
D'AMATO: Yes, and we're stranded here. You been talking to my friends?
LOSIRA: Do not be afraid.
D'AMATO: I'm not afraid.
LOSIRA: I am for you, Lieutenant D'Amato.
D'AMATO: You're, you're the woman on the Enterprise.
LOSIRA: I am only for D'Amato.
D'AMATO: Lucky D'Amato. I want to have a conference about sharing your food and water.
LOSIRA: Do not call the others. Please.
MCCOY: McCoy to Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
MCCOY: Jim, I just got a life form reading of tremendous intensity. Suddenly it was just there.
KIRK: What do you mean just there?
MCCOY: Just that. All levels were normal, then I get this biological surge of life form registering. No, now it's gone.
KIRK: As though a door opened and closed.
MCCOY: Yes.
KIRK: What direction?
MCCOY: Zero eight three.
KIRK: Hang on. D'Amato's section. Come in. Kirk to D'Amato. Come in. Come in. Bones, Sulu, D'Amato doesn't answer.
MCCOY: I'll be right there.
KIRK: Bones!
MCCOY: Jim, every cell in his body's been disrupted.
MCCOY: Jim, what are you doing?
KIRK: Digging a grave.
SULU: Poor D'Amato. What a terrible way to die.
KIRK: There are no good ways, Sulu.
SULU: That's the same red rock.
KIRK: My phaser didn't cut through it.
MCCOY: Whatever it is, it has a mighty high melting point.
KIRK: Eight thousand degrees centigrade. It looks like igneous rock, but infinitely denser.
MCCOY: This whole planet must be made up of this substance, covered over by top soil.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, it might explain this place a little better if we knew what the substance is. I know it was D'Amato's field, but see what you can find out.
SULU: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Well, I guess a tomb of rocks is the best we can provide for D'Amato.
KIRK: Yeah. It might be the most suitable memorial at that.
MCCOY: I wonder what killed him.
KIRK: I don't know, but something or someone did.

[Bridge]
RAHDA: We're holding warp eight point four, sir. If we can maintain it, our estimated time of arrival is eleven and one half solar hours.
SPOCK: Eleven point three three seven hours, Lieutenant. I wish you would be more precise.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge. Scott to Bridge.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Spock, the ship feels wrong.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Feels, Mister Scott?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I know it doesn't make sense. Instrumentation reads correct, but the feel is wrong.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's something I can't quite put into words.
SPOCK: That is obvious, Mister Scott. I suggest you avoid emotionalism and simply keep your instruments correct.

[Engineering]
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock out.

[Planet surface]
SULU: It looks so lonely there.
MCCOY: It would be worse if he had company.
SULU: Doctor, how can you joke about it?
MCCOY: I'm not joking. Until we know what killed him, none of us are safe.
KIRK: We've got to figure this out and devise a defense against it. Is it possible that the rocks have life?
SULU: You remember on Janus Six, the silicon creatures
MCCOY: But our instruments recorded that. They were life forms. They registered as life forms.
KIRK: Unless we're dealing with beings, intelligent beings who can shield themselves.
SULU: Beings intelligent enough to have destroyed the Enterprise?
KIRK: That's the problem, Sulu. We have only questions. No answers.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Watkins, check the bypass valve on the matter/antimatter reaction chamber. Make sure it's not overheating.
WATKINS: But, Mister Scott, the board shows correct.
SCOTT: I didn't ask you to check the board, lad.
WATKINS: Yes, sir.
WATKINS: Who are you?
LOSIRA: My name is not important. Yours is Watkins, John B. Engineer Grade four.
WATKINS: You know all about me. I've never seen you before.
LOSIRA: Show me this unit. I wish to learn.
WATKINS: This is the matter-antimatter integrator control. That's the cut off switch.
LOSIRA: Not correct. That is the emergency overload bypass, which engages almost instantaneously. A wise precaution, considering it takes the antimatter longer to explode once the magnetic flow fails. I am for you, Mister Watkins.
WATKINS: Mister Scott, there's a strange woman who knows the entire plan of the Enterprise.
SCOTT: Oh, you poor lad. Scott to bridge. Scott to bridge.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock here.
SCOTT (voiceover): My assistant, Watkins, is dead.
SPOCK: Do you know what he died of, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: I didn't see it happen, but his last words were a warning cry about some strange woman.
SPOCK: Security alert, all decks. Female intruder, extremely dangerous. Security alert. All decks.

[Planet surface]
SULU: The basic substance of this planet is an alloy of diburnium-osmium. It couldn't have evolved naturally.
MCCOY: Captain, it doesn't make sense. In fact, nothing about this planet makes sense.
KIRK: Except for a momentary fluctuation on your instruments, this planet has no magnetic field. The apparent age of these rocks is only a few thousand years. No known process could evolve the plant life they have here in that short space of time.
MCCOY: Are you suggesting this might be an artificial planet?
SULU: But Captain, where are the people who made it? Why can't we see them?
KIRK: The planet might be hollow. They might be shielding themselves from our sensor probes. It's dark. Let's get some rest. Tomorrow we have to find some food and some water or it's going to be a very unpleasant stay.
MCCOY: While it lasts.
SULU: I'll take the first watch, sir.
KIRK: All right. Take D'Amato's tricorder. Set it for automatic distress. You never can tell.
SULU: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock to Sickbay. Have you completed the autopsy on Watkins, Doctor?
M'BENGA (voiceover): Yes, we have, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Was the cause of his death the same as that which killed the transporter officer?

[McCoy's office]
M'BENGA: Well, the pattern of cellular disruption was the same, but as to the cause, well your guess is as good as mine.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: My guess, Doctor, would be valueless. I suggest we refrain from guessing and find some facts.

[McCoy's office]
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock out.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: The power of this intruder to disrupt every cell in a body, combined with the almost inconceivable power required to hurl the Enterprise such a distance, speak of a very high culture and a very great danger.
SCOTT: You mean that one of the people who threw us a thousand light years away from that planet is on board and killing our people?
SPOCK: A reasonable assumption, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Then you're right, Mister Spock. Watkins must've been murdered. I sent him in to check the matter-antimatter reactor. There are no exposed circuits there. It couldn't have been anything he touched.
SPOCK: If there are more of those beings on that planet, the captain and the others are in very great danger.

[Planet surface]
LOSIRA: I am unarmed.
SULU: Who are you?
LOSIRA: That is not important. You are Lieutenant Sulu. You were born on the planet Earth. You're helmsman for the Enterprise.
SULU: How do you know this? Where did you get this information? Are you from this planet?
LOSIRA: I am from here.
SULU: Then the planet is hollow. Who killed Lieutenant D'Amato? All right. The captain will want to talk to you. That way. Move!
LOSIRA: You do not understand. I have come for you.
SULU: What do you want?
LOSIRA: I want to touch you.
SULU: You were on the Enterprise. Keep back! Stop or I'll shoot! I don't want to have to kill a woman.
SULU: Captain Kirk! Captain Kirk!
KIRK: Hold it! Who are you?
LOSIRA: I am for him. I am for Lieutenant Sulu.
SULU: Don't let her touch you, Captain! That's how D'Amato died. Phasers won't stop her.
LOSIRA: I am for Lieutenant Sulu. Please, I must touch him.
KIRK: How can you destroy others and not me?
LOSIRA: I don't want to destroy. I don't want to.
KIRK: Who are you? Why are you trying to kill us?
LOSIRA: Only Sulu. I mean you no harm.
KIRK: Are there men on this planet?
LOSIRA: Please, I must touch him. I am for Lieutenant Sulu.
KIRK: No!
KIRK: Bones, did you see that? Maybe Spock was wrong. Perhaps this is a ghost planet.
MCCOY: Well, all I know is she almost made a ghost out of Sulu. His shoulder, where she touched it, every cell's been disrupted. Exploded from within. If she'd really gotten a good grip on him, Jim.
SULU: How can such people be, Captain? Such evil and she's so, so beautiful.
KIRK: Yes, I know.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Security sweeps of all decks are negative, Mister Spock. No evidence of intruder.
SPOCK: Very well. Cancel Red Alert but maintain increased security.
UHURA: Aye, sir. All decks, cancel Red Alert. Maintain increased security.
SPOCK: Please update our subspace report to Starfleet to include security search, results negative.
UHURA: How did she get off the ship, sir?
SPOCK: Presumably the same way she got on.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Mister Spock what are the chances of the captain and the others being alive?
SPOCK: Lieutenant, we are not engaged in gambling. We are proceeding in the only logical way to return to the place they were last seen, and factually ascertain whether or not they still live.
UHURA: Yes, Mister Spock.
RAHDA: Mister Spock, speed is increased to warp eight point eight.
SCOTT: Bridge to Engineering.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scotty here. I see it.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: It's a power surge. I'm working on it. Reduce speed until I locate the trouble.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Very well. Reduce speed to warp seven.
RAHDA: Aye, sir. Warp seven. Mister Spock, our speed has increased to warp eight point nine and still climbing.
SPOCK: Bridge to Engineering. Negative effect on power reduction. Speed is still increasing.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, Mister Spock, and I found out why. The emergency bypass control of the matter-antimatter integrator is fused.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): It's completely useless. The engines are running wild. There's no way to get at them. We should reach maximum overload in about fifteen minutes.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I would calculate fourteen point eight seven minutes, Mister Scott.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Those few seconds will not make any difference, Mister Spock, because you and I and the rest of the crew will no longer be here to bandy it back and forth.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): This thing is going to blow up

[Engineering]
SCOTT: And there's nothing in the universe can stop it.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: There's a layer of necrotic tissue a few cells thick. A normal wound would heal quickly.
SULU: She just touched me. How could it happen so fast?
KIRK: That's a good question. She touched the transporter chief. He collapsed immediately. She apparently got to D'Amato. We saw what happened to him. The question is, why are you alive?
SULU: Captain, I'm happy the way it turned out.
MCCOY: Jim, what kind of power must she have?
KIRK: The power to totally disrupt biological cell structure. Sulu's alive because I intervened. But that raises an even worse question.
MCCOY: Yes. Why didn't she kill you?
KIRK: She's not through yet.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: It's useless. And there's no question it's deliberate.
SPOCK: Sabotage.
SCOTT: Aye, and a thorough job. The system's foolproof. Whoever murdered Watkins sabotaged this.
SPOCK: You said it was fused. How?
SCOTT: That's what worries me.
SPOCK: Worries, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Well, it's fused, all right, but it would take all the power of our main phaser banks to do it.
SPOCK: Interesting.
SCOTT: I find nothing interesting in the fact that we're about to blow up.
SPOCK: No, but the method is fascinating.
SCOTT: Whatever did this is still aboard this ship. I fail to understand why you canceled the security alert.
SPOCK: A force that could hurl us nine hundred and ninety point seven light years away and at that distance still be able to sabotage our main source of energy will not be waiting around to be taken into custody.
SCOTT: Aye.
SPOCK: As I recall the pattern of our fuel flow, there is an access tube leading to the matter-antimatter reaction chamber.
SCOTT: There's a service crawlway, but it's not meant to be used while the integrator operates.
SPOCK: Still, it is there, and it might be possible to shut off the fuel at that point.
SCOTT: What with? Bare hands?
SPOCK: A magnetic probe.
SCOTT: Any matter that comes in contact with antimatter triggers the explosion. And I'm not even sure a man can live in the crawlway in the energy stream of the magnetic field that bottles up the antimatter.
SPOCK: I shall try.
SCOTT: You'll be killed, man!
SPOCK: Unless a solution is found quickly, that fate awaits all of us.
SCOTT: Aye. You're right. What have we got to lose? But I'll do it, Mister Spock. I know every millimeter of that system. I'll do whatever has to be done.
SPOCK: Very well, Mister Scott. You spoke of the feel of the ship being wrong.
SCOTT: Aye. It was an emotional statement. I don't expect you to understand it.
SPOCK: I note it, Mister Scott, without necessarily understanding it. I propose to run an analysis through the ship's computers, comparing the present condition of the Enterprise with her ideal condition.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, we don't have time for that.
SPOCK: We have twelve minutes and twenty seven seconds. I suggest you do whatever you can in the service crawlway, while I make the computer study.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Lieutenant Sulu, do you feel strong enough to move about?
SULU: I feel fine, Captain.
KIRK: Is he, Bones?
MCCOY: He's in fair shape.
KIRK: All right. Whatever destructive power this woman has seems to be aimed at one specific person at one specific time. If I'm correct, when she re-appears, the other two might protect the one she's after by interposing their bodies. No weapons seem to affect her.
SULU: But Captain, how does she know about us? Does she read our minds? Phaser on overload!
KIRK: Controls are fused. Drop!
KIRK: Apparently she can destroy our weapons as well as destroy us. Come on, let's go.

[Bottom of crawlway]
SCOTT: All right, lads. Get the crawlway door open. Hand me the tools. Communicator. All right. Head first. I hope Mister Spock knows what he's doing. (Scott is slid on his back into a half-sized Jefferies tube with blue energy streaks crossing it.
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge.
SPOCK (voiceover): Go ahead, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: I've sealed off the aft end of the service crawlway, and I've positioned explosive separator charges to blast me clear of the ship if I rupture the magnetic bottle. I'm so close to the flow now it feels like ants crawling all over my body.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, I suggest you refrain from any further subjective descriptions. You now have ten minutes and nineteen seconds in which to perform your task.

[Crawlway]
RAHDA (voiceover): Mister Spock, we're at warp eleven point two and accelerating.
SCOTT: I heard that. The ship's not structured to take that speed for any length of time.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You now have ten minutes and ten seconds.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: All right, Mister Spock. I'm starting to open the access panel now.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Access to the flow itself.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: If the magnetic flow jumps, you must jettison me. The safety control

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Will not hold more than two seconds if I rupture the field.
SPOCK: I'm aware of these facts. Please get on with the job. Computer.
COMPUTER: Working.
SPOCK: Analysis on my comparison co-ordinates.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Comparison co-ordinates too complex for immediate readout. Will advise upon completion.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: I've removed the access plate, and I've got static electric charges dancing on the instruments. Looks like an aurora borealis in there.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, you are monitoring the magnetic force?
UHURA: Oh yes, sir.
SPOCK: Please do not take your eyes off of it. Lieutenant Rahda, arm the pod jettison system.
RAHDA: Aye, sir. I'll jettison the pod at the first sign of trouble.
SPOCK: Not until my order.
RAHDA: Yes, sir. Warp eleven point nine.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, what is your situation?

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: It's hard to see. There's so much disturbance that any attempt to get at the flow would rupture the magnetic field.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You have eight minutes, forty one seconds.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: I know what time it is. I don't need a blooming' cuckoo clock.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Captain, I'm getting that strange magnetic sweep again, from zero to off the scale.
KIRK: Yes. Like a door opening.
KIRK: Who have you come for this time?
LOSIRA: For you, James T. Kirk. Commander of the Enterprise.
MCCOY: Keep behind us, Jim.
KIRK: Why do you want to kill us?
LOSIRA: For defense. You are Captain James T. Kirk, commander of the Enterprise.
KIRK: Then why do you want to kill me?
LOSIRA: You are an invader.
KIRK: We're here on a peaceful mission. It's you who have killed our people. We mean no harm to you. We want to leave, peacefully.
MCCOY: Captain, I'm getting no life form register.
KIRK: An android?
MCCOY: That would give a mechanical reading. I'm getting nothing.
KIRK: Who are you?
LOSIRA: I am Losira, Commander.
KIRK: Commander of what?
LOSIRA: Of this station.
KIRK: Station? Station? Where? How do you feel about killing me?
LOSIRA: Feel? Killing is wrong.
KIRK: Stay between us.
LOSIRA: You must not penetrate this station. Please, I must touch you.
KIRK: You want to kill me?
LOSIRA: No.
KIRK: Then why do it if you don't want to?
LOSIRA: I am sent.
KIRK: By whom?
LOSIRA: We defend this place.
KIRK: Are there others on this planet?
LOSIRA: They are no more.
KIRK: How long have you been alone? Are you lonely?
SULU: She must be somewhere.
MCCOY: She's not registering.
KIRK: And there's this power surge, right off the scale. Like a door closing. It must be near here.
MCCOY: Is the power level still holding, Jim?
KIRK: Right off the scale. It's remained at a peak ever since she disappeared. The entrance is here.
MCCOY: You think we're being invited in?
KIRK: It certainly looks like it. And the invitation doesn't exactly relax me.
SULU: I'd rather be on the Enterprise, sir.
KIRK: I agree.
MCCOY: We've been led here. Why?
KIRK: I don't know. But whatever civilisation exists on this planet is in there. And without the Enterprise, gentlemen, the only source of food and water is in there. Let's go.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Computer read-out.
COMPUTER: Comparison analysis complete.
SPOCK: Continue.
COMPUTER: Transporter factor M7 reassembled outphase point zero zero zero nine.
RAHDA: Fifty seven seconds to go.
SPOCK: Understood.
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: I'm going to try to cut through the magnetic flow. But if the probe doesn't precisely match the magnetic flow, there'll be an explosion. Starting right now.
UHURA: Magnetic force indicator jumping, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, ease off.
UHURA: Magnetic force has dropped to normal, sir.
RAHDA: Warp thirteen point two, sir.
SPOCK: Computer, for outphase condition, will reverse field achieve closure?
COMPUTER: Affirmative, if M7 factor maintained.
SPOCK: Mister Scott

[Crawlway]
SPOCK (voiceover): Reverse polarity on your magnetic probe.
SCOTT: Reverse polarity?
SPOCK (voiceover): That is correct, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: That'll take some doing. What purpose could it

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Please commence. I'll explain.

[Crawlway]
SPOCK (voiceover): You were correct in your feel. The Enterprise was put through a molecular transporter and reassembled slightly out of phase. Reverse polarity should seal the incision.
SCOTT: I have no time for theory. I just hope you're right.
RAHDA (voiceover): Twenty seconds, Mister Spock.
SCOTT: I'm doing the best I can! Wait! It's stuck! It's stuck! Push the button!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Please continue, Mister Scott.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: Don't be a fool! Push the button! It's your last chance! Don't be sentimental, push it. I'm going to die anyway.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Please continue.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: It's loose! But there's no time. Push the button!
RAHDA (voiceover): Nine seconds.

[Bridge]
RAHDA: Eight seconds, seven seconds

[Crawlway]
RAHDA (voiceover): Six seconds, five seconds, four seconds, three seconds, two seconds.

[Bridge]
RAHDA: One. Mister Spock, now. Warp fourteen point one. Warp fourteen.
UHURA: Magnetic forces steady.
RAHDA: Warp thirteen point nine and dropping.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, you have accomplished your task.

[Crawlway]
SCOTT: You might at least say thank you.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: For what purpose, Mister Scott?

[Crawlway]
SPOCK (voiceover): What is it in you humans
SCOTT: Never mind.
SPOCK (voiceover): That requires an overwhelming display of emotion in a situation such as this? Two men pursue the only reasonable course of action indicated, and yet you

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Feel that something else is necessary.

[Room]
KIRK: Who have you come for? Form a circle. You see? You'd better tell us. Tell us. Who have you come for? Who have you come for? You're a very determined woman. For me?
LOSIRA: I am for James T. Kirk.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I need your help.
LOSIRA: Please. I must touch you. I beg it. It is my existence.
KIRK: We've seen the results of your touch.
LOSIRA: But you are my match, James Kirk. I must touch you. Then I will live as one, even to the structure of your cells, the arrangement of chromosomes.
KIRK: That is how you kill. You'll never reach me.
MCCOY: Watch out!
LOSIRA 2: I am for McCoy.
KIRK: That computer must be programming these replicas.
MCCOY: The women match our chromosome patterns after they touch us.
SULU: It's a very painful affair. I can tell you.
LOSIRA 3: I am for Sulu.
KIRK: Shift positions.
SULU: Captain, we can no longer protect each other.
KIRK: Spock, the computer! Destroy it!
KIRK: Mister Spock, I certainly am glad to see you. I thought you and the Enterprise had been destroyed.
SPOCK: I had the same misgivings about you. We returned and picked up your life form readings only a moment ago.
KIRK: Returned from where?
SPOCK: From where this brain had the power to send the Enterprise. Nine hundred and ninety point seven light years across the galaxy. What a remarkable culture this is.
KIRK: Was, Mister Spock. Its defenses were run by computer.
SPOCK: I surmised that, Captain. Its moves were immensely logical. But what people created this? Are there any representatives here?
KIRK: There were replicas of one of them. But that power to recreate them has been destroyed.
SPOCK: That is a loss, Captain.
KIRK: Well, you wouldn't have thought so, Mister Spock, if you'd been among us.
LOSIRA (screen): My fellow Kalandans, welcome. A disease has destroyed us. Beware of it. After your long journey, I'm sorry to give you only a recorded welcome, but we who have guarded the outpost for you will be dead by the time you take possession of this planet. I am the last of our advanced force left alive. Too late the physicians diskovered the cause of this sickness that kills us. In creating this planet, we have accidentally produced a deadly organism. I have awaited the regular supply ship from home for medical assistance, but I doubt now whether it will arrive in time. I will set the outpost controls on automatic. The computer will selectively defend against all life forms but our own. My fellow Kalandans, I, Losira, wish you well.
MCCOY: The previous ships probably spread the disease all through their people. The supply ship that she was waiting for never came. All these thousands of years, she's been waiting to greet people who were dead.
SPOCK: To do the job of defense, the computer projected a replica of the only image available. Losira's.
KIRK: The computer was too perfect. It projected so much of Losira's personality into the replica that it felt regret, guilt, at killing. That bought us the time we needed to destroy it. She must have been a remarkable woman.
MCCOY: And beautiful.
SPOCK: Beauty is transitory, Doctor. However, she was evidently highly intelligent.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Five to beam up. I don't agree with you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain?
KIRK: Beauty survives.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5730.2. The planet Ariannus is vital as a transfer point on regular space commercial lanes. It has been attacked by a bacterial invasion which threatens to render it lifeless unless checked. Our mission, to decontaminate it.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Chekov, our estimated time of arrival for Ariannus?
CHEKOV: At present speed, our eta is three hours, four minutes, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, advise the planet's ministry of health that we'll begin decontamination procedures immediately upon locking into orbit.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Scotty, will that present any problems for you?
SCOTT: None, sir. All tanks are being positioned.
SULU: Captain, sensors indicate a space vehicle of some sort ahead.
KIRK: Is it within visual range?
SULU: Coming into range now, sir. It's following a very erratic course.
KIRK: Put it on the screen, extreme magnification.
CHEKOV: I think that may be a Starfleet shuttlecraft.
SPOCK: That is exactly what it is, Mister Chekov.
SULU: It looks like the one reported stolen from Starbase Four two weeks ago.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, try to contact them on command frequency two.
UHURA: Aye, Captain. No response, sir.
KIRK: Try all frequencies.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Hailing on all frequencies.
SPOCK: Captain, there is one living creature aboard. Humanoid. He is either injured or ill. His craft shows internal atmospheric leakage. The creature may be suffocating.
KIRK: Lieutenant Sulu, activate tractor beams.
SULU: Tractor beams activated. We have it, sir.
KIRK: Prepare to bring it aboard the hangar deck.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, send a security team to the pressure doors on the hangar deck.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, come with me. Scotty.

[Hangar deck]
SULU (voiceover): Hangar doors open and clearing for entrance of shuttlecraft. Shuttlecraft approaching hangar deck.

[Turbolift]
SULU (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SULU (voiceover): Hangar doors closed, and hangar deck is pressurizing.
KIRK: Acknowledged.

[Outside hangar deck]
KIRK: We'll enter as soon as the doors open. Go on my command.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: You are certain, Doctor, that this pigmentation is the natural condition of this individual?
MCCOY: That's what I've recorded, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Do we have any knowledge of a planet that could have produced such a race of beings?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain.
KIRK: Bones, what do you make of it?
MCCOY: Well, I can't give you any specific circumstance that will explain him.
KIRK: And judging by looking at him, we know at the very least he is the result of a very dramatic conflict. Spock?
SPOCK: There is no theory, Captain, from the basic work of Mendel to recent nucleotide studies, which would explain our captive. All gradations of color from black to brown, to yellow to white are genetically predictable. We must therefore conclude that this alien is that often unaccountable rarity, a mutation, one of a kind.
MCCOY: Yes, I would agree. That's the case here.
KIRK: Your prognosis, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, I can't give you one, Jim. I've never worked on anyone like him or anything like him.
SPOCK: Yet you are pumping him full of your noxious potions as if he were a human.
MCCOY: When in doubt, the book prevails, Mister Spock. I've run tests. Blood is blood, even when it's green like yours. The organs are there. They're rearranged to a degree, plus a few I've never seen before. Now, I've enriched the oxygen content of his blood and pumped in a strong stimulant. And I must say his recuperative powers appear to be excellent.
SPOCK: With your permission, Captain, I shall do some further research and join you on the bridge. ) Spock leaves.)
CHAPEL: He's coming around, Doctor.
MCCOY: Well, touch and go there for a minute, but you're out of danger now.
KIRK: You're aboard the starship Enterprise.
LOKAI: I've heard of it. It's in the United Fleet of Planets?
KIRK: Federation. So was the shuttlecraft that you were flying in.
LOKAI: It was?
KIRK: Don't you usually know whose property you've stolen?
LOKAI: I am not a thief.
KIRK: Well, certainly no ordinary thief, considering what it is you appropriated.
LOKAI: You're being very loose with your accusations and drawing conclusions without any facts.
KIRK: Well, I do know you made off with a ship that didn't belong to you.
LOKAI: I do not make off with things. My need gave me the right to use the ship. Mark the word, sir, the use of it.
KIRK: You can try those technical evasions on Starfleet Command. That's where you'll be facing your charges.
LOKAI: I'm grateful for your rescue.
KIRK: Don't mention it. We're pleased to have caught you. Who are you?
LOKAI: My name is Lokai.
KIRK: Go on.
LOKAI: From the planet Cheron.
KIRK: That's in the southernmost part of the galaxy, in an uncharted quarter. What are you doing so far from home? You understand that when we complete our mission, we'll take you to Starbase where you'll face a very serious charge.
LOKAI: The charge is trifling. I would've returned the ship as soon as I
KIRK: Had what? What were you going to do?
LOKAI: You monotone humans are all alike. First you condemn and then attack. I will answer no more questions.
MCCOY: Well, however we view him, Captain, he's certainly no ordinary specimen. Lokai, I don't know what's normal for you exactly, but if I had your readings, I'd be the most incredible physical specimen of all time.
KIRK: We've never encountered a being like you. I'd like to know more about you and your planet.
LOKAI: I'm very tired.
KIRK: And very evasive. Or at least not fully responsive. Now, then,
LOKAI: I insist, I'm extremely tired. Made so by your vindictive cross-examinations. I will answer no more questions.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA (voiceover): Lieutenant Uhura here.
KIRK: Notify Starbase Four that we've recovered its shuttlecraft, and it will be returned along with its user as soon as we've completed our mission at Ariannus.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Bones, if you're satisfied that the mutation theory is applicable, I'll make a note of it in my report.
MCCOY: Unless we get more information from him, it'll have to serve.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Captain, contact with alien ship, sir.
KIRK: I'll be right there. Notify Mister Spock.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Put the ship on the viewing screen, Mister Sulu. Magnification. Still nothing, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: I verify, sir, it's out there.
KIRK: Maximum magnification. I draw a blank, Mister Spock. Your response?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain.
CHEKOV: No malfunction, sir. The reading persists.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: There is a vessel out there, Captain.
KIRK: Could it be a Romulan ship using their cloaking device?
SPOCK: Negative. This would not be a Romulan vessel. It is totally alien in configuration. Motive power unknown. Small size of the craft indicates a rapid scout vessel, one or two-man crew.
UHURA: Captain, I've tried all hailing frequencies. Negative, sir.
KIRK: Weaponry on the vessel, Spock?
SPOCK: Nothing identifiable. The craft appears to be built for speed rather than combat.
KIRK: Something out there can't be seen. Explanation?
SPOCK: None. Completely elusive. In fact, it's invisible.
KIRK: Invisible. Malfunction?
SPOCK: There is no sensor failure. The readings persist.
CHEKOV: It's headed straight for us!
KIRK: Evasive action.
CHEKOV: It shifts with us, sir. And we're pushing to the limit!
KIRK: Deflector shields activated, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Automatic, sir.
CHEKOV: We're on collision course.
SULU: It's out of control or a suicide mission.
KIRK: Sound warning for collision. Red Alert.
SULU: Brace yourself for collision. Brace yourself.
KIRK: Read out, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: It just disintegrated. Fascinating.
KIRK: What is it now?
SPOCK: It is gone now, Captain, but it seems to have deposited an alien presence.
KIRK: Where?
BELE: Right here, Captain.
KIRK: Explain, Spock. One of a kind?
BELE: I am Bele.
KIRK: Of the planet Cheron, no doubt.
BELE: Forgive my unorthodox arrival.
KIRK: Your mode of travel was also unorthodox. Secure from Red Alert. What happened to your vehicle?
BELE: It served me long and durably. Unfortunately, the strain of arduous pursuit has exceeded even its advanced qualities. I was just able to complete this trip and disembark in time, or I would have disintegrated in space with it.
SPOCK: A most unique craft. Pity it couldn't be salvaged for our study.
BELE: Yes. It was sheathed in special materials that rendered it invisible.
KIRK: What brings you to us?
BELE: You bear precious cargo, Lokai. He has taken refuge aboard this ship. I am here to claim him.
KIRK: All personnel aboard this vessel are subject to my command. No one claims anyone without due process.
BELE: My apologies, Captain. I overstepped my powers. Claim is undoubtedly an unfortunate word.
KIRK: What is your authorisation? From what source?
BELE: I am chief officer of the Commission on Political Traitors. Lokai was tried and convicted of treason, but had escaped. May I see him, please?
KIRK: He's in Sickbay. Remember, since you're aboard the Enterprise, you're bound by its regulations.
BELE: With your permission, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock.

[Sickbay]
BELE: Well, Lokai, it's a pleasure to see you again. This time I'm sure our joining will be of a more permanent nature. Captain, you are to be congratulated. Never before has Lokai been rendered so quiescent.
LOKAI: I will not return to Cheron with him, to a land of murdering oppressors!
KIRK: I told you where you were going. I allowed your fellow countryman here simply as a courtesy.
BELE: And you see how this killer repays you, as he repays all his benefactors.
LOKAI: Benefactors? He's a liar. He raided our homes, tore us from our families, herded us together like cattle and then sold us as slaves!
BELE: They were savages, Captain. We took them into our hearts, our homes. We educated them.
LOKAI: Yes, just education enough to serve the master race.
BELE: You were the product of our love! And you repaid us with murder.
LOKAI: Why should a slave show mercy to the enslaver?
BELE: Slaves? That was changed thousands of years ago. You were freed.
LOKAI: Freed? Were we free to be men? Free to be husbands and fathers? Free to live our lives in equality and dignity?
BELE: Yes, you were free, if you knew how to use your freedom. You were free enough to slaughter and to burn all the things that had been built!
LOKAI: I tried to break the chains of a hundred million people. My only crime is that I failed. To that I do plead guilty.
BELE: There is an order in things. He asked for utopia in a day. It can't be done.
LOKAI: Not in a day. And not in ten times ten thousand years by your thinking. To you, we are a loathsome breed who will never be ready. Genocide for my people is the plan for your utopia.
BELE: You insane, you filthy little plotter of ruin. You vicious subverter of every decent thought. Oh, you're coming back to pay for your crimes!
LOKAI: I know you and all those with whom you're plotting to take power permanently. When I return to Cheron, you will understand what power is. I will have armies of followers.
KIRK: It's now very clear you know each other extremely well, gentlemen. The only service this ship can offer is to bring you together. It is not a battlefield.
LOKAI: Captain, I led revolutionaries, not criminals. I demand political asylum. This ship is a sanctuary.
KIRK: I'll tell you once more. For you, this ship is a prison.
BELE: Captain, it is imperative that you return Lokai to Cheron for judgment.
KIRK: Commissioner, Cheron is not a member of the Federation. No treaties have ever been signed. Your demand for possession of this prisoner cannot be honored. There are no extradition procedures to allow it. Is that clear, Commissioner Bele?
BELE: Captain, I hope you will be sensible.
KIRK: How do you mean?
BELE: Co-operation.
KIRK: I cannot take sides.
BELE: Since I am without a vessel to return to Cheron, I insist that you take us there immediately.
KIRK: Impossible. I have a mission to accomplish. There's a planet to be decontaminated. Millions of lives are at stake. Once that has been completed, I'll return to Starbase Four and turn you both over to the authorities. You can make your case to them.
BELE: I am sorry, Captain. That will not be satisfactory, not at all satisfactory.
KIRK: Commissioner, as a visiting dignitary from a far planet, I offer you every hospitality aboard this ship. Choose any other course,
BELE: You're the captain.
KIRK: Yes, I am. I think we can consider your problem settled. At least for the present. I have ordered guest quarters for you on deck six.
KIRK: And I suggest you get a great deal of rest, especially your vocal chords. It seems you'll have a double opportunity to practice your oratory on Starbase Four.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Chekov to Captain Kirk. Chekov to Captain Kirk. Urgent.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Captain, we're off course.
KIRK: Well, get back on course.
CHEKOV (voiceover): That's just it, sir. The ship's taken a new heading all by itself.
KIRK: I'll be right there.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Have you located the malfunction?
SULU: No, sir. The ship is unresponsive. We're moving away from Ariannus.
KIRK: Explanation, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Elusive, Captain. I am investigating.
SULU: I can't understand it. I simply have no control.
KIRK: Kirk to engineering.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
KIRK: Scotty, we're suddenly off course. Check our manoeuvering controls.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Hold. Captain, no malfunction indicated.
KIRK (voiceover): Switch to auxiliary.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Out. Engineer to bridge.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): On auxiliary, sir.
KIRK: Stand by for check. Scotty, we're still off course.
SCOTT (voiceover): I'll be right up.
KIRK: Speed, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: We're moving at warp eight.
KIRK: And new course?
CHEKOV: four oh three mark seven. Straight for the Coal Sack if there is no letup.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, put the ship on Red Alert. All hands, this is the captain. The ship is on Red Alert.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Repeat, the ship is on Red Alert. There has been an unidentified malfunction in the ship's directional control.

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): Repeat, the ship is off course and out of our control.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Our new heading, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Four oh three mark seven.
KIRK: Spock?
SPOCK: Confirmed, Captain. Holding pattern. Co-ordinates now indicate we are charting course to Captain, Cheron lies between four oh three mark seven and mark nine.
BELE: We're on the way to Cheron. Captain, this ship is now under my direction. For fifty thousand of your terrestrial years, I have been pursuing Lokai through the galaxy. I have not traveled this far, this long, only to give him up. This ship goes where my will drives it.
SCOTT: Captain, we are now at warp ten and the speed is increasing!
SPOCK: Captain, course is now clearly straight for Cheron, despite all efforts to direct us to Ariannus.
LOKAI: I will not return to Cheron. Captain, you must guarantee me sanctuary.
BELE: He cannot help you now. You are lost, Lokai. You're on the way to judgment, to final punishment.
LOKAI: Stop him.
BELE: You evil mound of filth. Not this time.
LOKAI: My cause is just. You must help me. All of you must help me.
BELE: Oh, the old cry. Pity me, pity me. Everywhere he's gone, he's been helped to escape. On every planet he's found fools who bleed for him and shed tears for the oppressed one. But there is no escape for you on this ship. This is your last sanctuary.
LOKAI: Kill him. Kill him!
KIRK: You're two of a kind.
BELE: And we are both going to Cheron. You cannot change the course of this ship any more than you can change me. This ship goes where I want it to go.
KIRK: Security, put them both in the brig.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Fire.
BELE: Your phasers are ineffective against our shields. You are helpless, Captain.
LOKAI: What a fool I am, expecting help from someone like you.
KIRK: This ship is going to Ariannus.
BELE: No, this ship is going to Cheron. I will let nothing interfere.
KIRK: We are going to Ariannus. The lives of a billion people make no other choice possible.
BELE: You are being obtuse, Captain. I am permitting no choice. My will now controls this, and nothing can break it.
KIRK: Bele, I am captain of this ship, and it will follow whatever course I set for it, or I will order its destruction.
BELE: You're bluffing.
KIRK: I will destroy it.
BELE: You can no more destroy this ship than I can change color.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, tie in the bridge to the master computer.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Computer, destruct sequence. Are you ready to copy?
COMPUTER: Working.
KIRK: Prepare to verify destruct sequence code one. Computer, this is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Destruct sequence one, code one, one A. COMPUTER Voice and code one, one A verified and correct. Sequence one complete.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: This is Commander Spock, science officer. Destruct sequence number two, code one, one A, two B.
COMPUTER: Voice and code verified and correct. Sequence two complete.
KIRK: Mister Scott.
SCOTT: This is Lieutenant Commander Scott, chief engineering officer of the USS Enterprise. Destruct sequence number three, code one B, two B, three.
COMPUTER: Voice and code one B, two B, three verified and correct. Destruct sequence completed and engaged. Awaiting final code for thirty second countdown.
KIRK: Mister Spock, has the ship returned to the course set for it by my orders?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. We are still headed directly for Cheron.
COMPUTER: Destruct sequence engaged. Awaiting final code for thirty second countdown.
KIRK: Computer, this is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Begin thirty second countdown. Code zero, zero, zero, destruct zero.
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds. twenty nine, twenty eight, twenty seven, twenty five seconds,
KIRK: Let's see you prevent the computer from fulfillling my commands.
COMPUTER: Twenty seconds,
KIRK: From five to zero, no command in the universe can prevent the computer from fulfillling its destruct orders.
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds,
KIRK: You can use your will to drag this ship to Cheron. But I command the computer. Mine is the final command.
COMPUTER: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six,
BELE: I agree!
KIRK: Computer. This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Code one, two, three continuity. Abort destruct order. Repeat code one, two, three continuity. Abort destruct order.
COMPUTER: Destruct order aborted. Destruct order aborted.
KIRK: Mister Spock, is this ship headed for Ariannus?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. The Enterprise is now moving in a circular course.
SCOTT: And at warp ten, we're going now here mighty fast.
LOKAI: I warned you of his treachery. Kill him!
KIRK: We're waiting for you to fulfill your commitment, Commissioner.
BELE: Captain, I am happy to have you complete your mission of mercy to the planet Ariannus. It was madness to interfere with such a worthwhile endeavor. But, if you will, upon completion, please take me and my traitorous captive to Cheron.
KIRK: I make no deals for control of this ship, sir.
BELE: The ship's course is now in your control.
KIRK: Ship's course?
SPOCK: Enterprise is now on course to Ariannus, Captain.
KIRK: Speed, Scotty?
SCOTT: Warp six and smoothly operating, sir.
KIRK: Good. Lieutenant Uhura, cancel Red Alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Let me reaffirm my position, gentlemen. I could put you in the brig for what you have done, but I won't do it because you are new to this part of the galaxy, which is governed by the United Federation of Planets. We live in peace with full exercise of individual rights. The need to resort to violence and force has long since passed, and it will not be tolerated aboard this ship. You are free to move about the ship. I hope that you'll take the opportunity to know more about the Federation through its best representatives, my crew. But let me make it clear. I will stand for no interference with the function of this ship. All hands, return to normal routine. Captain out.
LOKAI: You speak very well, Captain. Your words promise justice for all.
KIRK: We try, sir.
LOKAI: Yes, well, I have learned to wait for actions. After Ariannus, what is justice? I shall wait to see it dispensed.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Two irrevocably hostile humanoids.
SCOTT: Disgusting is what I call them.
SPOCK: That description is not scientifically accurate.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, the word disgusting describes exactly what I feel about those two.
KIRK: That's enough for today. Those two are beginning to affect you.

[Rec room]
LOKAI: And I know from my actions you must all think me a volcanic hothead, erupting lava from my nostrils at danger signals that are only figments of my imagination. But believe me, my friends, there can be no moment when I can have my guard down where such as Bele is present. So what happens? I act the madman out of the anger and frustration he forces upon me, and thereby prove his point that I am a madman.
SULU: No one knows how he'll react under pressure, Lokai.
CHEKOV: After all, we are only human.
LOKAI: Ah, Mister Chekov, therein lies my lack of ability to alert you and your captain to the real threat of someone like Bele. You see, you are from the planet Earth. There is no persecution on your planet. How can you understand my fear, my apprehension, my degradation, my suffering?
CHEKOV: There was persecution on Earth once. I remember reading about it in my history class.
SULU: Yes, but it happened way back in the twentieth century. There's no such primitive thinking today.
LOKAI: You have read about it in history, I see. How can I make your flesh know how it feels to see all those who are like you, and only because they are like you, despised, slaughtered, and even worse, denied the simplest bit of decency that is a living being's right? Do you know what it would be like to be dragged out of your hovel into a war on another planet? A battle that will serve your oppressor and bring death to you and your brothers?

[Captain's mess]
BELE: Putting the matter into the hands of your Starfleet Command is, of course, the proper procedure. How long will it be before we hear from them, Captain?
KIRK: I expect the answer is already on its way.
BELE: Well, then, let us drink to their wise solution to our problem.
KIRK: Let's do that.
SPOCK: Commissioner, Starfleet Command may not arrive at the solution you anticipate. There is the matter of the shuttlecraft which Lokai appropriated. The interrogation of that matter may be of paramount importance to Starfleet.
BELE: Gentlemen, we are diskussing a question of degree. Surely, stealing a shuttlecraft cannot be equated with the importance of murdering thousands of people.
SPOCK: We do not know that Lokai has done that.
BELE: One thing we are agreed on is that Lokai is a criminal.
KIRK: No, Commissioner. The one thing we're agreed upon is that Lokai took a shuttlecraft.
KIRK: Excuse me.
UHURA (voiceover): Uhura to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA (voiceover): I have a communication from Starfleet Command, sir.
KIRK: Yes, read it.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Starfleet Command extends greetings to Commissioner Bele of the planet Cheron. His urgent request to be transported to his planet with the man he claims prisoner has been taken under consideration.

[Captain's mess]
UHURA (voiceover): It is with great regret that we cannot honor that request. Intergalactic treaty clearly specifies that no being can be extradited without due process. In view of the circumstances, we have no doubt that after a hearing at Starbase, Commissioner Bele will be permitted to retain his prisoner and be provided transportation
KIRK: That's enough. Thank you.
BELE: As always, Lokai has managed to gain allies.
KIRK: Now, wait a minute, Commissioner,
BELE: Even if they don't recognize themselves as being such. Yes, he will evade, delay, and escape again and in the process put thousands of innocent beings at each other's throats, getting them to kill and maim for a cause which they have no stake in, but which he will force them to violently espouse by twisting their minds with his lies, his loathsome accusations and his foul threats.
KIRK: I can assure you, Commissioner, that our minds will not be twisted, not by Lokai, nor by you.
BELE: It is obvious to the most simpleminded that Lokai is of an inferior breed.
SPOCK: The obvious visual evidence, Commissioner, is that he is of the same breed as yourself.
BELE: Are you blind, Commander Spock? Well, look at me. Look at me!
KIRK: You're black on one side and white on the other.
BELE: I am black on the right side.
KIRK: I fail to see the significant difference.
BELE: Lokai is white on the right side. All of his people are white on the right side.
SPOCK: Commissioner, perhaps the experience of my own planet Vulcan may set an example of some value to you. Vulcan was in danger of being destroyed by the same conditions and characteristics which threaten to destroy Cheron. We were once a people like yourselves, wildly emotional, often committed to irrationally opposing points of view, leading, of course, to death and destruction. Only the diskipline of logic saved my planet from extinction.
BELE: Commander Spock, I am delighted that Vulcan was saved, but you cannot expect Lokai and people like him to act with self-diskipline any more than you can expect a planet to stop orbiting its sun.
KIRK: Let Lokai state his grievances. Hear him, listen to him. Maybe he can change. Maybe he wants to change his image.
BELE: He cannot change.
SPOCK: Change is the essential process of all existence. For instance, the people of Cheron must have once been mono-colored.
BELE: You mean like both of you?
KIRK: There must have been a time, long ago no doubt, when that was true.
KIRK: Excuse me. Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): We're orbiting Ariannus, sir.
KIRK: Very good. Commence decontamination procedures when ready. Advise when complete.
SCOTT (voiceover): At once, sir. Scott out.
BELE: I once heard that on some of your planets people believe they are descended from apes.
SPOCK: The actual theory is that all life-forms evolved from the lower levels to the more advanced stages.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Ready for decontamination procedure.
CHEKOV: Ready, sir.
SULU: Ready here.
UHURA: Ready, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu, lock into co-ordinates requested by Ariannus.
SULU: Locked in, sir.
SCOTT: Mister Chekov, position tanks for spray release.
CHEKOV: Tanks positioned.
SCOTT: Lieutenant Uhura, advise Ariannus the mission is to begin on signal. All ground precautions must be ready.
UHURA: Ariannus says go ahead.
SCOTT: Well, let 'er rip.
SCOTT: Scott to Captain Kirk.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SCOTT: First run complete, sir.

[Captain's mess]
KIRK: Good. Repeat procedure for maximum effect.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Ready to repeat decontamination procedure.
CHEKOV: Ready, sir.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu?
SULU: Ready here.
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk here.
SCOTT: We're completing the final orbit of Ariannus, sir. I'm awaiting instructions to set course for the next destination.
KIRK: Very good. We'll be right up.

[Captain's mess]
KIRK: Set directional controls for Starbase Four. Kirk out. Will you join us on the bridge?
BELE: There is nothing I would like more.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5730.7. Having completed our mission to Ariannus, the Enterprise is now on course to Starbase Four. The crew is on normal routine, and we are proceeding without incident.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Trouble, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: I don't rightly know, Mister Spock. I was trying to program for Starbase Four as ordered. I can't get a response.
UHURA: It just seemed to go dead, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, some of the memory banks of the computer are burned out.
KIRK: Can you determine which ones?
BELE: The directional control and the self-destruct, Captain, are both burnt out. I did it like this.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5730.6. In a deliberate act of sabotage, Commissioner Bele has burned out our destruct mechanism and through the power of his will has again taken over directional control of the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
BELE: Now can we go to Cheron without any more diskussion?
KIRK: At the moment, I seem to have no choice.
LOKAI: So this is justice after Ariannus! You have signed my death warrant. I warned you what to expect. Will you continue to let this mockery of justice go on? If you are partisans of justice, prove it! Kill him!
CHEKOV: We are not killers.
LOKAI: What do you do, carry justice on your tongues? You will beg for it, but you won't fight or die for it.
KIRK: After so many years of leading the fight, you seem very much alive.
SPOCK: I doubt that the same can be said for many of his followers.
BELE: You're finished, Lokai! We've got your kind penned in on Cheron into little districts, and it's not going to change. You've combed the galaxy and come up with nothing but mono-colored trash, do-gooders and bleeding hearts. You're dead, you half-white!
LOKAI: You useless pieces of bland flesh. I'll take you with me, you half-black.
KIRK: Bele, you keep this up, and you'll never get to Cheron with your prisoner. The rest of this ship will be irreparably damaged. This will be your final battlefield. Your fifty thousand years of pursuit will have been wasted.
KIRK: And you, Lokai, will die here in space. You'll inspire no more diskiples. Your cause will be ended.
LOKAI: Remember, Captain, political sanctuary is my right. I am your prisoner. Honor that right, or the fight will go on and your ship will burn up.
KIRK: You've made your point.
BELE: If you listen to his legalistic trickery, I shall have to destroy this ship and everybody aboard.
KIRK: I understand. Will you return the Enterprise to my control?
BELE: Why not?
KIRK: Scotty, have repairs on directional control been completed?
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Re-routed.
KIRK: Check controls and co-ordinates.
SULU: Controls operating. The Enterprise is responding as always. Captain, it's beautiful.
CHEKOV: Locking onto co-ordinates.
SPOCK: Captain, we are within scanning range of Cheron.
KIRK: Is it within visual range?
SPOCK: Coming within visual range now, Captain.
KIRK: Chekov, put it on the screen. Extreme magnification. What are you picking up?
SPOCK: Several large cities, uninhabited. Extensive traffic systems, barren of traffic. Lower animal sand vegetation encroaching on the cities. No sapient life-forms registering at all, Captain. There is no evidence of natural disaster, yet there are vast numbers of unburied corpses in all cities.
KIRK: You mean, all the people are dead?
SPOCK: All dead, Captain. They have annihilated each other totally.
BELE: My people, all dead?
KIRK: Yes, Commissioner, all of them.
LOKAI: No one alive?
SPOCK: None at all, sir.
BELE: Your band of murderers did this.
LOKAI: Your genocidal maniacs did this!
KIRK: Stop it! What's the matter with you two? Didn't you hear Spock? Your planet is dead! There's nobody alive on Cheron because of hate. The cause you fought about no longer exists. Give yourselves time to breathe. Give up your hate. You're welcome to live with us. Listen to me. You both must end up dead if you don't stop hating.
LOKAI: You're an idealistic dreamer.
KIRK: Bele. The chase is finished.
BELE: He must not escape me.
SPOCK: Where can he go?
KIRK: Bele.
UHURA: Shall I alert security, sir?
KIRK: No, Lieutenant. Where can they run?
SPOCK: Captain, I have located them on ship's sensors. Bele is chasing Lokai on deck three. Bele is passing recreation room three, approaching the crewmen's lounge. Lokai is running past the crewmen's lounge. Lokai has just arrived on deck five. Passing recreation room three.
UHURA: Captain, someone has activated the transporter mechanism.
KIRK: Spock, anyone in the transporter room?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Transporter room is clear. However, there is a life-form materializing on the planet. It is Lokai. He is back on Cheron.
KIRK: There's nobody there to try him. His judges are all dead.
UHURA: Captain, the transporter mechanism has been activated again.
KIRK: Of course.
SPOCK: It is Bele, Captain. And another life-form has appeared on Cheron.
UHURA: It doesn't make any sense.
SPOCK: To expect sense from two mentalities of such extreme viewpoints is not logical.
SULU: But their planet's dead. Does it matter now which one's right?
SPOCK: Not to Lokai and Bele. All that matters to them is their hate.
UHURA: Do you suppose that's all they ever had, sir?
KIRK: No, but that's all they have left. Warp factor two, Mister Sulu. Set course for Starbase Four.

[Control room]
KIRK: Donald, good to see you.
SPOCK: Governor.
CORY: Gentlemen, you don't know what a treat this is for me. It's been too long since I've had company. The force field's back in place now. That means you two are trapped here, and I'm not accepting any excuses for your not dining with me.
KIRK: We'd be delighted.
SPOCK: Governor, you indicated one additional inmate since our last visit, making a total of fifteen. Is that correct?
CORY: It is. The rehabilitation program isn't progressing too well, and I have my doubts about the effectiveness of this medicine too.
KIRK: Why, Donald, are you becoming a pessimist?
CORY: I'm afraid I have.
SPOCK: A total of fifteen incurably insane out of billions is not what I would call an excessive figure. Who is the new inmate?
CORY: Garth. Garth of Izar, a former Starship fleet Captain.
KIRK: When I was a cadet at the Academy, his exploits were required reading. He was one of my heroes. I'd like to see him.
CORY: Of course.

[Detention area]
MARTA: Captain! You're making a mistake.
CORY: Captain Kirk is pressed for time at the moment, Marta.
MARTA: There's nothing the matter with me! Can't you see just by looking at me? Can't you tell just by listening?
SPOCK: She sounds rational enough, Captain.
MARTA: I am rational.
KIRK: What is it you want to tell me?
MARTA: I can't tell you in front of him.
KIRK: You're afraid to talk in front of Governor Cory?
MARTA: He isn't really Governor Cory at all, that's just it.
CORY: She's been saying that for days now. Our medical staff can't figure out why.
CORY: Here's Garth. He's been unusually disturbed, and we've had to impose additional restraint.
KIRK: Cory?
CORY: Yes, Jim, I'm Cory. It's true. He tricked you.
GARTH: You said you wanted to see me, Captain. Well, here I am.
GARTH: Your Vulcan friend is still alive, Captain. My phaser was set to stun, not to kill. He'll be quite comfortable. Almost as comfortable as you and our esteemed governor.
KIRK: Garth, do you have to make him suffer like that?
GARTH: You will address me by my proper title, Kirk.
KIRK: I'm sorry. I should've said Captain Garth.
GARTH: I am Lord Garth, formerly of Izar, and I lead the future masters of the universe.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Lord Garth.
GARTH: You Earth people are a stiff necked lot, aren't you?
KIRK: Release him.
GARTH: I'm afraid that subjugating you won't be enough. You must be confined. And all the people of the galaxy who will not bow to my will must be confined or destroyed.
CORY: Captain Garth, listen to me.
GARTH: Oh ho! Our beloved governor has decided to address us, and we have not given him our permission to speak.
KIRK: Are you so afraid of him that you must keep him pinned?
GARTH: I'm afraid of no one. You're all powerless against me.
KIRK: Thank you. Now what have you done with the medicine?
GARTH: The medicine? You mean the poison. I destroyed it.
KIRK: Destroyed it? It was your only hope.
GARTH: Silence! The chatter of inferior weaklings wearies me, and it's time I took command of the Enterprise. You'll help me, of course.
KIRK: Of course.
GARTH: My crew mutinied. The first use I will make of the Enterprise is to hunt them down and punish them for that.
KIRK: The crew of the Enterprise will also mutiny.
GARTH: But they won't. You see, Captain, there's a helpful technique I've mastered.
MARTA: Good bye, darling. I'll miss you.
KIRK: Governor Cory, how do you feel?
CORY: All right. There is no help for any of us if that madman is in command of the Enterprise. He boasts that he's created the most powerful explosive in the universe, and I believe him.
KIRK: How does he manage to change form at will?
CORY: The people of Antos taught him the techniques of cellular metamorphosis to restore the destroyed parts of his body. By himself, he later learned to use the technique to recreate himself into any form he wished. The first time we knew about it was when a guard, seeing what he thought was me in Garth's cell, released him.
KIRK: He was such a genius. What a waste.

[Control room]
KIRK: Force field is on. Good. Remain here out of sight until I give the order to join me. Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scott here, sir.
KIRK (screen): Beam me aboard.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Queen to queen's level three.
KIRK (screen): I said beam me aboard.
SCOTT: I said, queen to queen's level three.
KIRK (screen): We have no time for chess problems. Beam me aboard!
SCOTT: I'm following your orders, Captain. Queen to queen's level three.
KIRK (screen): Just testing. Be in touch with you later.

[Control room]
KIRK: No! No! No! (ends up thumping the floor until he changes beck to Garth.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I gave him the sign. Why didn't he give me the countersign?
MCCOY: Something's wrong.
SCOTT: Using the chess problem was the Captain's own suggestion. He couldn't have forgotten it, and I can't believe he was testing me. Lieutenant, re establish communication.
UHURA: Aye, sir. There's no response, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Send an armed detail to the transporter room immediately.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SCOTT: Mister Sulu, what do your sensors show?
SULU: We can't beam anybody down, sir. The force field on the planet is in full operation, and all forms of transport into the asylum dome are blocked off.
SCOTT: We could blast our way through the field, but only at the risk of destroying the Captain, Mister Spock and any other living thing on Elba Two.
MCCOY: How can we be powerful enough to wipe out a planet and still be so helpless?

[Control room]
GARTH: We are going to take the Enterprise, do you hear me? We are going to take her if I have to shatter every bone in Captain Kirk's body.

[Detention area]
GARTH: Captain? Captain Kirk? Well, I hope you haven't been too uncomfortable, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you for your concern. All in all, it's been rather restful.
GARTH: Good. Still, I've been quite remiss in my duties as your host. I did invite you down to dinner, as you may recall.
KIRK: I'd forgotten.
GARTH: But I haven't. You and Mister Spock are to be my guests.
KIRK: Where is Mister Spock?
GARTH: Right here. Marta!
MARTA: Why can't I blow off just one of his ears?
GARTH: Stop that, Marta. Mister Spock will think we're lacking in hospitality. Won't you join us, Captain?
KIRK: How are you, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Very well indeed, thank you, Captain.
KIRK: Isn't Governor Cory joining us?
GARTH: No, the governor doesn't seem to be on the guest list.
KIRK: An oversight?
GARTH: An intentional one. The governor's fasting.
KIRK: In that case, we must decline with thanks.
GARTH: Captain.
CORY: Don't be a fool, Jim. Go along with him.
GARTH: Good advice, Governor. Well, Captain? You'll find we set a handsome table, and the entertainment is most enjoyable.
KIRK: You're very persuasive.
GARTH: Yes, I am. I certainly am.

[Dining room]
GARTH: Keep your hands off Kirk! You treacherous thing!
MARTA: You're jealous!
GARTH: I am above that sort of thing. The Captain is annoyed by your attentions, that's all.
MARTA: Am I annoying you, dearest?
KIRK: Not really.
MARTA: He finds me fascinating and you're bothered by it. Admit it.
GARTH: I may have you beaten to death.
MARTA: No, you won't, because I am the most beautiful woman on this planet.
GARTH: You're the only woman on this planet, you stupid cow.
MARTA: Well, I'm the most beautiful woman in this galaxy!
GARTH: You're repulsive!
MARTA: I'm beautiful! And I'm intelligent too. I write poetry, and I paint marvelous pictures. And I am a wonderful dancer.
GARTH: Lies! All lies! You are the greatest liar I have ever met! Let me hear one poem you've written.
MARTA: If you like.
SPOCK: If you could create a diversion, I might be able to find the control room and open the force field.
KIRK: All we need is a few seconds, if Scotty has alerted the security detail.
GARTH: Gentlemen, courtesy for the performer.
MARTA: Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate. Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, and summer's lease hath all too soon
GARTH: You wrote that?
MARTA: Yesterday, as a matter of fact.
GARTH: It was written by an Earth man named Shakespeare a long time ago!
MARTA: Which does not alter the fact that I wrote it again yesterday! I think it's one of my best poems, don't you?
GARTH: I may kill you with my bare hands! Actually, Captain, she is a superb dancer. Marta, my dear, won't you dance for our guests? That was not a request.
GARTH: Marvelous, isn't she, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, er, incredible.
GARTH: What is your reaction, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I find it mildly interesting and somewhat nostalgic, if I understand the use of that word.
GARTH: Nostalgic?
SPOCK: Yes. It is somewhat reminiscent of the dances that Vulcan children do in nursery school. Of course, the children are not so well co-ordinated.
GARTH: She's yours if you wish, Captain.
KIRK: Oh, er, thank you. That's, er, very magnanimous of you.
GARTH: You'll find that I am magnanimous to my friends and merciless to my enemies, and I want you, both of you, to be my friends.
SPOCK: On what, precisely, is our friendship to be based?
GARTH: Upon the firmest of foundations, Mister Spock. Enlightened self interest. You, Captain, are second only to me as the finest military commander in the galaxy.
KIRK: That's very flattering. I am primarily an explorer now, Captain Garth.
GARTH: And so have I been. I have charted more new worlds than any man in history.
KIRK: And tried to destroy Antos Four.
SPOCK: Why?
GARTH: Well, I could say because they were actively hostile to the Federation.
KIRK: Yes, you could say, but that would be untrue.
GARTH: Agreed. Actually they were quite harmless, and they made me whole when I was maimed and dying. And in my gratitude, I offered them the galaxy. They rejected me, and I condemned them to death.
SPOCK: How could you, a Starship fleet Captain, believe that a Federation crew would blindly obey your order to destroy the entire Antos race, a people famous for their benevolence and peaceful pursuits?
GARTH: That was my only miscalculation. I had changed. I had risen above this decadent weakness which still has you in its command, by the way, Captain. My crew had not. I couldn't sway them, but my new crew, the men in this room, will obey my orders without question. Gentlemen, you have eyes but you cannot see. Galaxies surround us, limitless vistas. And yet the Federation would have us grub away like some ants on some somewhat larger than usual anthill. But I am not an insect. I am master of the universe, and I must claim my domain.
KIRK: I agree there was a time when war was necessary, and you were our greatest warrior. I studied your victory at Axanar when I was a cadet. In fact it's still required reading at the Academy.
GARTH: As well it should be.
KIRK: Very well. But my first visit to Axanar was as a new fledged cadet on a peace mission.
GARTH: Peace mission! Politicians and weaklings!
KIRK: They were humanitarians and statesmen, and they had a dream. A dream that became a reality and spread throughout the stars, a dream that made Mister Spock and me brothers.
GARTH: Mister Spock, do you consider Captain Kirk and yourself brothers?
SPOCK: Captain Kirk speaks somewhat figuratively and with undue emotion. However, what he says is logical and I do, in fact, agree with it.
GARTH: Blind! Truly blind! Captain Kirk is your commanding officer and you are his subordinate. That is all. Yet, Mister Spock, you are a worthy commander in your own right, and in my fleet, you will surely have a Starship to command.
SPOCK: Please forgive me, but exactly where is your fleet?
GARTH: Out there waiting for me. They will flock to my cause, and for good reason. Limitless power, limitless wealth, and solar systems ruled by the elite. We, gentlemen, are that elite, and we must take what is rightfully ours from the decadent weaklings that now hold it.
SPOCK: Captain Garth
GARTH: Lord Garth!
SPOCK: As you wish. At any rate, you must be aware of the fact that you are attempting to recreate the disaster which resulted in your becoming an inmate in this place.
GARTH: I was betrayed and treated barbarically.
SPOCK: On the contrary. You were treated with justice, and with compassion which you failed to show towards any of your intended victims. Logically, therefore, one must assume
GARTH: Remove this animal!
GARTH: Try some of this wine, Captain. It has a robust, full bodied flavor which you'll find diverting.
KIRK: No thank you. I prefer to join Mister Spock.
GARTH: And I prefer that you remain here. Marta, my dear. We found your little divertissement enchanting, didn't we, Captain? But there's more to come. The entertainment has merely begun. By the way, I assume you play chess.
KIRK: Occasionally.
GARTH: So do I. How would you respond to queen to queen's level three?
KIRK: I'm sure you're aware that there are an infinite number of countermoves.
GARTH: I'm interested in only one.
KIRK: I can't for the life of me imagine which one.
GARTH: For the life of me is a phrase well chosen. It could literally come to that.
KIRK: Dead I am of no use to you.
GARTH: But I can make you long for death, beg for death.
MARTA: In the midnight of November, when the dead man's fare is nigh, and the danger in the valley, and the anger in the sky. I wrote that this morning. Do you like it?
KIRK: Yes, I think it's very good.
MARTA: Tell him what he wants to know and we'll go away together.
KIRK: I can't.
MARTA: But you must. I beg of you.
GARTH: Oh, don't beg, Marta! It's degrading. Queen to queen's level three, Captain. You'll talk freely and quite soon. What you see before you, Captain, is my latest invention. Quite ordinary in appearance, almost primitive, wouldn't you say?
KIRK: Yes, I recognize it. It's used for rehabilitation purposes.
CORY: It helped many men back to health.
GARTH: Appearances can be deceiving. Once it was a part of the rehabilitation process, and as such, quite painless. And I might add useless too. It made men docile and of no use to me. I've added certain refinements to the use of ultrasonic waves. The chair is no longer painless. Put the governor in it. Queen to queen's level three, Captain Kirk? It is, in fact, exquisitely painful, as you will now see.
GARTH: Interesting, isn't it? The pain is real and can be prolonged indefinitely, because there is no actual destruction of tissue.
KIRK: Stop it!
GARTH: Of course, Captain. You have but to ask. Now, as you can see, he has not been harmed physically, yet the memory of the exquisite torment remains. Queen to queen's level three, Captain.
KIRK: No.
GARTH: Too bad. Remove our distinguished governor. Put Captain Kirk in the chair.
MARTA: No, you mustn't do that!
GARTH: You really are becoming offensive to me, my dear. Don't make it necessary for me to put you in it. Queen to queen's level three, Captain Kirk.
MARTA: Please, stop it!
GARTH: You want him, don't you?
MARTA: Yes.
GARTH: Badly enough to join him?
MARTA: Listen to me, my Lord Garth. I can get him to tell me what you want to know.
GARTH: It might be interesting to have you try.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: No breakthrough?
UHURA: No, Mister Scott. Still no response from the planet.
SCOTT: Sensor readings?
SULU: The force field is weakest on the far side of the planet. We can send down a shuttlecraft carrying a team in environmental suits.
MCCOY: It won't work, Scotty. They'd have to cover thousands of miles through poisonous atmosphere before they'd ever reach the asylum.
SCOTT: Aye, you're right. Even if they made it, they couldn't carry anything powerful enough to break through the asylum dome. Only the ship herself could do that.
MCCOY: Probably kill Jim and Spock.
SCOTT: Doctor, they may already be dead.

[Room]
MARTA: Slowly, darling, slowly. Rest.
KIRK: Is this more of Garth's persuasion, Marta?
MARTA: I told him I'd diskover your secret. I lied. I would have told him anything to save you from that torment.
KIRK: I believe you mean that.
MARTA: I do. This is where I've longed to be. I think I knew I loved you from the moment I first saw you.
KIRK: Marta. Marta, I can help you, but I must get to the Enterprise to do that.
MARTA: That's not possible.
KIRK: Yes, it is. It is if I can get to the control room and remove the force field, then Garth is finished.
MARTA: Garth is my leader.
KIRK: He will lead you to destruction. He's already destroyed the medicine that could have helped you. But there's more medicine aboard the ship.
MARTA: I'll help you, but you must wait. You do see that, don't you? Soon your friend Spock will be here and then
KIRK: Spock?
MARTA: At least I've arranged that much.
KIRK: How did you manage that?
MARTA: A convincing lie told to a guard who finds me desirable. Darling.
MARTA: No, you mustn't stop me. He's my lover and I have to kill him.
SPOCK: She seems to have worked out an infallible method for assuring permanent male fidelity. Interesting.
KIRK: I'm very glad to see you.
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain. We're now armed. I presume we shall try to reach the control room.
KIRK: Yes, you presume correctly.

[Control room]
SPOCK: Force field is now off, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA: Mister Scott, it's the captain.
SCOTT: Scott here, Captain.

[Control room]
SCOTT (voiceover): You had us worried.
KIRK: Mister Scott, I want a fully armed security detail beamed down here on the double.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: They're already in the transporter room, sir.

[Control room]
KIRK: And have Doctor McCoy prepare additional medicine as quickly as possible.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, I suggest you return to the ship at once. Your safety is vital to the Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Waiting for your order, Captain.
SPOCK: I also request permission to remain here in charge of the security team when they beam down.
KIRK: Very well, Spock.
SCOTT (voiceover): Still waiting, Captain.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, the Captain's life is in immediate danger. Beam him aboard at once. The security team will be entrusted to me.
SCOTT (voiceover): Queen to queen's level three. Repeat. Queen to queen's level three.
SPOCK: He's waiting for the proper reply, Captain.
SCOTT (voiceover): Give the countersign as ordered.
KIRK: Scotty, Mister Spock will give the countersign.
SPOCK: Give him the countersign, Captain.
SCOTT (voiceover): Security detail, standby to beam down.
GARTH: Blast away, Captain, if you can. Do you think I'm fool enough to give you a charged phaser?
KIRK: What have you done with Spock? Where is he?
GARTH: I have done nothing with him as of yet, but I do have plans for him. The Vulcan will die rather horribly, and his death will be on your conscience.
KIRK: Captain Garth
GARTH: Lord Garth!
KIRK: No, sir. Captain Garth, Starship fleet Captain. That's an honorable title.
GARTH: And I was the greatest of them all, wasn't I?
KIRK: Yes, you were. Yes. But you're a sick man now, sir.
GARTH: I have never been more healthy.
KIRK: No. No, think. Think back to what you were before the accident that sent you to Antos Four. Try.
GARTH: I can't remember. It's almost as if I had died and was reborn.
KIRK: No, I, I can remember. You were the finest student at the Academy, the finest Starship Captain. You were the prototype, the model for the rest of us.
GARTH: Yes, I do remember that. It was a great responsibility, but one I was proud to bear.
KIRK: And you bore it well. And the disease that changed you, it's not your fault. And the terrible things you did since then, not truly responsible.
GARTH: I don't want to hear any more. You're weak, you're trying to drain my strength.
KIRK: No, I'm not. I want you to find what you once had. I want you to go back to the greatness that you've lost, Captain Garth.
GARTH: I am Lord Garth! Master of the universe! You doubt me only because I have not as yet had my coronation.
KIRK: No, sir, listen to me. I
GARTH: Stop! On your knees.
KIRK: No.
GARTH: On your knees before me! All the others before me have failed. Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, Lee Kuan, Krotus! All of them are dust! But I will triumph! I will make the ultimate conquest!

[Dining room]
GARTH: The throne must be higher. It must be higher than anything else in this room. Use that table as a pedestal. Ah, welcome back, Captain Kirk. I'm glad you could make it for the coronation.
KIRK: Coronation?
GARTH: Yes. Oh, I know that even a real throne is no more than merely a chair, but the symbolism is important, don't you agree?
KIRK: Yes, I agree. You'll wear a crown too, I presume?
GARTH: But again, just as a token. Not impressive in itself, but it will serve as a standard around which our followers will rally.
KIRK: Garth, you have only a handful of men.
GARTH: You do refuse to enter into the spirit of the thing, don't you, Captain? Perhaps you'd like a larger role in the ceremony. You could serve as human sacrifice, for example.
KIRK: No, I wouldn't enjoy that at all. Besides, you seem to need me alive.
GARTH: How true. All right, how about crown prince? That would make you our heir apparent. Heir apparent, I believe, is the proper role for you. Besides, we have other candidates for our human sacrifice. Who knows? Ready. (Garth goes out and comes in again with Marta on his arm. She carries a crown on a pillow. They walk between two lines of inmates, who kneel.
GARTH: Well, since there is no one mighty enough to perform this ceremony, we'll perform it ourselves. Therefore, we hereby proclaim that I am Lord Garth, master of the universe. And we designate our beloved Marta to be our consort. And we further designate Captain James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise to be our heir apparent.
GARTH: Now remove our heir apparent that we may conclude this ceremony.

[Control room]
KIRK: Listen to me. This may be our last chance. Garth will destroy all of us unless you help me stop him. And he's using you, you know that, because he wants the power for himself. I brought something that might have cured you, but he destroyed it. If I can get a patrol down, they'd bring more of that medicine and
GARTH: Well done. Well, Captain, you continue to resist. How stupid of you. Put him in that chair right here. I've arranged a small entertainment. I wouldn't want him to miss any of it. Well, Captain, even you must admit that I'm a genius. What you see here is my latest invention. This is an explosive, the most powerful one in history. If I were to drop this flask, the resulting explosion would vaporize this planet. Now do you see why it is ridiculous to resist me? Well, perhaps you require the demonstration I've arranged. Watch closely.
GARTH: Now, it is true that she is deadly as a poisonous serpent, but she is also a beautiful woman, and you have held her in your arms, Captain. I've ordered my men to drive her out of the protective dome. And, of course, she would choke to death on the outside in minutes.
GARTH: But I've arranged a more merciful end for her because after all, Captain, she is my consort. One tiny crystal implanted in her necklace, a portion of this explosive no bigger than a grain of sand. I propose to detonate it from here.
GARTH: Poor girl. Poor, dear, suffering child. I will help her now.

[Bridge]
SULU: There's been an explosion on Elba Two!
SCOTT: Point nine five!
MCCOY: It must've wiped out everything.
SCOTT: Immediate probe. Is the force field in place, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Yes, sir. Solidly.
UHURA: Life continues to exist on the planet.
MCCOY: Got to break through it somehow.
SCOTT: Doctor, I told you we couldn't do it without killing everyone in the asylum dome.
MCCOY: I know it, Scotty.
SCOTT: Well, there's one last thing we might try. Perhaps the ship's phasers can cut through a section of the force field at its weakest point. Where did you say that was located, Mister Sulu?
SULU: On the far side of the planet, Mister Scott.
MCCOY: Will it leave a margin of safety for the people below?
SULU: Yes, sir.
SCOTT: Prepare to change orbital path, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Orbital co-ordinates released, sir.
SCOTT: Break synchronous orbit. Come to course one four mark six eight.
SULU: Course one four mark six eight. Synchronous orbit re-established, sir.
SCOTT: Ship's phasers to narrow beam.
SULU: Ship's phasers ready, sir.
SCOTT: Let's punch a hole in it. Full power. Another blast, full power.
SULU: Force field still holding, sir.

[Control room]
GARTH: Here.
GARTH: How are your nerves, Kirk?
KIRK: All I can say, Garth, if it happens to me, it happens to you.
GARTH: You're an extraordinary fellow, Kirk. Your stubbornness defies all logic. Logic, that is the key. Your friend Spock is a logical man. A very logical man. Go and bring the Vulcan here to me.
GARTH: Spock is not only a more logical man than you, Captain, but a more intelligent one, I'm sure. I shall establish a rapport with him.
GARTH: Fascinating. Your Vulcan friend is a very ingenious fellow. This could be most amusing.
KIRK 1: That's Garth, stun him.
KIRK 2: Hold it, Spock. That's Garth.
KIRK 1: Look at me carefully, Spock. Can't you tell I'm your Captain?
SPOCK: Queen to queen's level three.
KIRK 2: I won't answer that. That's exactly what he wants to know.
KIRK 1: Very clever, Garth. That's exactly what I was going to say.
KIRK 2: What are you doing?
SPOCK: Arranging to beam down a security team. Are there any objections?
KIRK 1: Yes. They may walk into a trap.
KIRK 2: That's right. Garth can destroy us.
SPOCK: Fascinating. What maneuver did we use to defeat the Romulan vessel near Tau Ceti?
KIRK 1: Very good, Spock. The Cochrane deceleration.
KIRK 2: Spock, you know the Cochrane deceleration's a classic battle maneuver. Every Starship Captain knows that.
SPOCK: Agreed, Captain. Captains. Gentlemen, whichever one of you is Captain Garth must at this moment be expending a great deal of energy to maintain the image of Captain Kirk. That energy level cannot be maintained indefinitely, and I have time.
KIRK: I'm your Captain, Spock! Can't you tell? Shoot! Shoot!
KIRK: He's right, Spock. You must shoot, but shoot both of us. It's the only way to ensure the safety of the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Captain Kirk, I presume.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT: Enterprise here. Queen to queen's level three.
SPOCK: Queen to king's level one.

[Treatment room]
CORY: Will intramuscular injection be satisfactory?
MCCOY: Intravenous is indicated unless circumstances make it impossible.
CORY: How long before it takes effect, Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY: Reversal of arterial and brain damage should begin almost immediately.
KIRK: Captain Garth, I'm James Kirk.
SPOCK: I am Mister Spock, science officer on a Starship.
KIRK: The starship Enterprise.
GARTH: Starship. Starship.
KIRK: Yes, sir, the Enterprise. I'm the captain. Can I help?
GARTH: No, Captain. The medicine seems to be taking effect. I can manage. It's very encouraging. Should I know you, sir?
KIRK: No, Captain. No.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Tell me something. Why was it so impossible to tell the difference between us?
SPOCK: It was not impossible, Captain. Our presence here is proof of that.
KIRK: Yes, and congratulations. What took you so long?
SPOCK: The interval of uncertainty was actually fairly brief, Captain. It only seemed long to you. I was waiting for a victor in the hand to hand struggle, which I assumed would be Captain Garth. Because of your depleted condition. Failing a resolution to the struggle, I was forced to use other means to make my determination.
KIRK: I see. Mister Spock. Letting yourself be hit on the head, and I presume you let yourself be hit on the head, is not exactly a method King Solomon would have approved. Mister Scott, ready to beam up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5423.4. We are orbiting the planet Gideon, which is still not a member of the United Federation of Planets. The treaty negotiations have been difficult because Gideon has consistently refused the presence of a delegation from the Federation on its soil, or any surveillance by the ship's sensors. They have finally agreed to a delegation of one. They insisted it be the Captain of the Enterprise. I am, therefore, beaming down at once.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: I shall be interested in hearing your description, Captain.
KIRK: You won't have long to wait.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA: Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Do we have final clearance from Gideon?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Yes, Mister Spock. They have provided us with the co-ordinates for beam down.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: May I have them, please?
UHURA (voiceover): Eight seven five.
SPOCK: Eight seven five.
UHURA (voiceover): Zero two zero.
SPOCK: Zero two zero.
UHURA (voiceover): Zero seven nine.
SPOCK: Zero seven nine.
KIRK: Let's go, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Energizing.
KIRK: Mister Spock? Mister Spock. I have not yet transported down. Why did you leave your post before confirming transport? Mister Spock? Spock?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Engineering?

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Scott? Scotty!

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, report immediately. All bridge personnel, report immediately.

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): Kirk to crew. Is anyone aboard?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Sickbay? Doctor McCoy?

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Bones? Bones, answer me.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Bones. Still orbiting Gideon.

[Corridor]
KIRK (voiceover): I am alone on the Enterprise. I have searched every area of the ship and still cannot find a trace of the crew, or an indication of how its disappearance was managed. The one thing that is obvious is that I suffered a memory lapse, during which time I bruised my arm. It is causing me some irritation.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Gideon is contacting us, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Put it on the screen.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
HODIN (screen): Captain Kirk, this is Ambassador Hodin. The council is still awaiting your arrival.
SPOCK: This is Mister Spock, Ambassador Hodin. Captain Kirk was transported down minutes ago.
HODIN (screen): That's impossible.
SPOCK: I transported him myself.
HODIN (screen): He never arrived.
SPOCK: He was beamed directly to your council chambers. Please verify your co-ordinates.
HODIN (screen): Eight seven five, zero two zero, zero seven nine.
CHEKOV: Co-ordinates confirmed.
HODIN (screen): We gave you the exact co-ordinates which should have brought Captain Kirk directly to this very room.
SPOCK: I am not questioning that, sir.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: If he is not here, that is your own responsibility, Mister Spock, and that of your staff.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I do not deny that, sir. I am not attempting to blame your personnel.
HODIN (voiceover): We are glad to hear that. We shall enter it into the records of this most unfortunate event.
SPOCK: Your Excellency, even with intricate machinery as delicately balanced as ours, there is still a margin for error which must be dealt with.

[Council chamber]
SPOCK (voiceover): It is possible that Captain Kirk materialized on some other part of Gideon.
HODIN: Let us hope it was on dry land.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your Excellency. May I cut right to the heart of the matter? I request permission to beam down to conduct a search for our captain.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Permission denied.

[Bridge]
HODIN (voiceover): Your Federation must be aware

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Of our jealous tradition of isolation from all contaminating contacts

[Bridge]
HODIN (voiceover): With the violent nature of planets of other star systems.
SPOCK: Your Excellency, the wars between opposing star systems no longer prevail in our galaxy. If you will grant permission
HODIN (screen): Of course, we shall institute a thorough search. In the meantime, Mister Spock, I suggest that you look to your machinery.
SPOCK: We must acknowledge once and for all that the purpose of diplomacy is to prolong a crisis.
MCCOY: Well, what are we waiting for, Mister Spock? We're not diplomats.
SPOCK: We are representatives of the Federation, Doctor.
MCCOY: That doesn't mean we have behave like children and listen to some fool lecture by a diplomat!
SPOCK: Unfortunately, diplomacy is the only channel available to us at the moment. The planet is shielded from our sensors, therefore we cannot scan it. Therefore we are unable to select co-ordinates. They must be provided by Gideon.
CHEKOV: We should never have agreed to such restrictions.
SPOCK: We did not, Mister Chekov. The Federation did. Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA: Yes, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Contact Starfleet immediately. Explain our problem. Request permission to use every means at our disposal to press the search for Captain Kirk.
UHURA: At once, sir.
CHEKOV: Are there any other possibilities?
SPOCK: There are endless, Mister Chekov.
MCCOY: Well, where do we start, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Institute a sensor scan three hundred and sixty degrees, one degree at a time.
MCCOY: You mean you're going to scan space for him?
SULU: But, sir, that could take years.
SPOCK: Then the sooner you begin, the better.
SULU: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Who are you?
ODONA: Odona. Yes, my name is Odona. Why did you bring me here?
KIRK: What are you doing on my ship?
ODONA: Is this entire ship yours?
KIRK: Not my personal property, but I'm the captain.
ODONA: And you have it all to yourself?
KIRK: It seems, at the moment, we have it all to ourselves.
ODONA: You're hurting me, Captain
KIRK: Kirk. I'm sorry. James Kirk. And I didn't bring you here.
ODONA: If you didn't bring me
KIRK: That's right. Who has brought you here?
ODONA: I don't know.
KIRK: You? What happened before you came here? Try to remember. It's important.
ODONA: It seems I was standing in a, yes. I was standing in a large auditorium crowded with people. Thousands pressed in against me. I could hardly breathe. I was fighting for oxygen, screaming to get out.
KIRK: Don't be afraid.
ODONA: I'm not, but you are troubled.
KIRK: I seem to be the only one of my crew left on board the Enterprise. Four hundred and thirty, and I, apparently, am the only one left.
ODONA: I'm sorry. I wish I could help.
KIRK: Maybe you can. Tell me the rest. You were fighting for oxygen, screaming to get out of there.
ODONA: And then I, suddenly I was here on this, on your ship. And there was all this space. And the freedom. I just wanted to float. And then there you were.
KIRK: How long have you been aboard the Enterprise?
ODONA: I don't know. Not long. Is it important?
KIRK: It might be. Come with me.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, has Starfleet honored our request with a reply?
UHURA: There has been no response as yet, sir.
SPOCK: Did you advise them the captain's life is at stake?
UHURA: Yes, sir. They insist that the matter must be referred to the Federation.
SPOCK: What department?
UHURA: Bureau of Planetary Treaties.
SPOCK: Contact them directly.
UHURA: I did, Mister Spock. They insist that we must go through Starfleet channels.
SULU: With the captain lost, sir, that's the best they could come up with?
SPOCK: Diplomats and bureaucrats may function differently, but they achieve exactly the same results.

[Empty Bridge]
KIRK: Nine minutes of my life has been lost.
ODONA: I don't understand.
KIRK: Between the time I tried to beam down to Gideon and the time I found myself here alone, nine minutes have disappeared just like that. Now what happened during those minutes?
ODONA: What is Gideon?
KIRK: That's your home. The planet that you come from.
ODONA: Is it?
KIRK: It must be.
ODONA: Gideon? I don't know any Gideon.
KIRK: That's impossible. We were in synchronous orbit over the capital city of Gideon. I tried to beam down, something happened, and you were beamed aboard from Gideon.
ODONA: I do not think so.
KIRK: We're no longer over Gideon.
ODONA: Where are we?
KIRK: I don't know. I'm not familiar with that quadrant. Odona, you must realize that we're not here by accident. Some force, some intelligence has arranged this for a purpose.
ODONA: Captain, before I said I wasn't afraid. Now I am.

[Bridge]
UHURA: The ambassador will speak, sir. They're requesting visual communication.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Good news. Very good news indeed, Mister Spock. Your captain is definitely not on Gideon. As you requested, we made a most thorough search, and you will be relieved to know that you may now investigate all the other possibilities and forget about Gideon.
SPOCK (screen): But that is not what we requested.
HODIN: You requested a most thorough search. It is in the record. And we have used every means at our disposal to accommodate you.
SPOCK (screen): Your record on the subject is not precise, Your Excellency.
HODIN: Surely, Mister Spock, you do not intend, I hope, to create a dispute between the Federation and Gideon?
SPOCK (screen): Your Excellency, a dispute is the farthest thing from our minds, and there's no need to check your records. I merely suggest that the language of our statement may not have been understood exactly as intended.
HODIN: Mister Spock, you're an officer of a spaceship. In your profession, you use many instruments, tools and weapons to achieve your objectives.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: True, Your Excellency.
HODIN (voiceover): However, the only tool diplomacy has is language.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: It is of the utmost importance that the meaning be crystal clear.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your Excellency, I am basically a scientist. Clarity of formulation is essential in my profession also.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: I'm glad to hear it. Perhaps you could then make greater effort to choose your words more precisely.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Are you going to let him get away with that?
SCOTT: No matter what you say, Mister Spock, he'll twist your meaning.
UHURA: Yes, he's infuriating, sir. How can you stand it?
MCCOY: We do not leave without being absolutely sure ourselves that everything has been done.

[Council chamber]
MCCOY (voiceover): Now certainly you understand our feelings about that.
HODIN: Mister Spock! Mister Spock!

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Yes, Your Excellency.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Are you still there?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Yes, Your Excellency.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: There was considerable interference with your transmission. A lot of noise drowned out

[bridge]
HODIN (voiceover): What was said. Would you repeat, please?
SPOCK: I apologize for the noise, your Excellency. To summarize, I request permission to transport down to Gideon.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Forgive me, Mister Spock. No criticism of your equipment was intended. But it has sent your captain on some strange journey, a safe one we all still hope.

[Bridge]
HODIN (voiceover): But it could create for us serious incidents with your Federation, and now you propose to

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Repeat this disaster with another officer? This would be madness.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I'll not take that, Mister Spock. That transporter was in perfect condition. I guarantee that myself. Transport me down right this minute, and I'll prove to those gentlemen.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, you'll go to the transporter room and await my orders.
SCOTT: Aye, Mister Spock.
HODIN (voiceover): I could not quite make that out, Mister Spock.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: Would you be so good as to repeat what you said?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Yes, Your Excellency. The ship's engineer was explaining that the malfunction, which did exist, has now been repaired. We would appreciate an opportunity to test the equipment. I, therefore, request permission

[Council chamber]
SPOCK (voiceover): To beam down to your council chamber.
HODIN: But, Mister Spock, you

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your Excellency, grant this one request.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: You are a very persistent fellow, Mister Spock. Very well, then, You shall test the skill of your very excitable

[Bridge]
HODIN (voiceover): Repairman.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: There is one proviso. We cannot risk further incidents. You will therefore transport a member of my staff to your ship. Let us first see if that works.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Thank you, Your Excellency. Your proposal is accepted. Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
SPOCK: Prepare to beam aboard a representative of the Gideon council.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, sir.

[Council chamber]
HODIN: My assistant will provide you with the proper, what is the word?
SPOCK (voiceover): Co-ordinates.
HODIN: Thank you. Proceed, Krodak.
KRODAK: Eight seven five.
SCOTT (voiceover): Eight seven five.
KRODAK: Zero two zero.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Zero two zero.

[Transporter room]
KRODAK (voiceover): Seven zero nine.
SCOTT: Seven zero nine. Energizing.
SCOTT: Mister Spock, the gentleman from Gideon is here.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Your Excellency, your assistant has arrived safely, and I am now ready to transport down to Gideon.
HODIN (screen): Now, now, not so fast, Mister Spock. That is quite a different matter. We agreed to allow one representative on our soil, your captain.
SPOCK: Sir, our captain is still missing, and I now demand that I be allowed to transport to Gideon as we agreed.
HODIN (screen): Forgive me, Mister Spock, but I overstepped my authority when I made that agreement. However, your request will be taken up at the next full session of Gideon's council.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, beam down the gentleman from Gideon. SCOTT; Yes, Mister Spock. I'm sending him straight to the same co-ordinates.
MCCOY: Just when I was beginning to think you might find a whole new career as a diplomat, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Do not give up hope. Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet Command. Demand an immediate reply to our request for permission to beam down to Gideon.
UHURA: Yes, Mister Spock. Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Enterprise to Starfleet Command.

[Empty Bridge]
KIRK: Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Captain Kirk here. Red priority. Red priority.
ODONA: Isn't it in working order?
KIRK: It seems to be.
ODONA: Then someone should have heard you.
KIRK: Captain Kirk here. Please answer red priority. Please answer red priority. Well, if someone is listening, they're not answering.
ODONA: Why should they do that?
KIRK: They wouldn't.
ODONA: What did you do?
KIRK: Took the ship out of warp speed.
ODONA: Out of what?
KIRK: Space terminology. We're no longer moving faster than the speed of light. I've trimmed down to sublight speed until we find out where we are.
ODONA: It feels the same.
KIRK: Of course it does. Maybe it is the same.
ODONA: Well, has the ship slowed down?
KIRK: If you believe that, we have.
ODONA: Oh, please! Don't tell me the sky is out of order now. It's so quiet. So peaceful.
KIRK: It isn't really, you know.
ODONA: And it's beautiful.
KIRK: Yes. Yes, it is. Very, very beautiful.
ODONA: And we're alone. Can you make it last a long, long time?
KIRK: How long would you like it to last?
ODONA: Forever.
KIRK: Well, let's see. Power, that's no problem, it regenerates. And food. We have enough to feed a crew of four hundred and thirty for five years. So that should last us
ODONA: Forever. All my life I've dreamed of being alone.
KIRK: Most people are afraid of being alone.
ODONA: Where I come from, people dream of it.
KIRK: Why? Why are the people of Gideon like that?
ODONA: Gideon? I told you, I don't know where I come from, what my planet is.
KIRK: It might be Gideon.
ODONA: Does it matter so much?
KIRK: Yes. It might help me pinpoint our location.
ODONA: And then you might find your crew. Being here with you, I forgot there must be others. I envy you your sense of loyalty. I want to ease your feeling of dread, your fear that all your crew no longer exists.
KIRK: I've got to contact whoever is manipulating us. There must be a way. Odona. Odona, can you remember why your people dream of being alone?
ODONA: Because they never can be.
KIRK: Why? What makes it so impossible to be alone?
ODONA: Because there are so many of us. So many. There is no place, no street, no house, no garden, no beach, no mountain that is not filled with people. Each one of us would kill in order to find a place alone to himself. They would willingly die for it, if they could.
KIRK: Who sent you here?
ODONA: No one commands Odona. I was not sent here.
KIRK: You've come to kill. Odona, have you come to die?
ODONA: I don't know. I don't care. I only know I'm here. I only know I'm happy.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Now, all I have to do is find a medical kit, and I can completely cure this.
ODONA: Cure?
KIRK: Yes, the irritation would be gone.
ODONA: What will happen if you do not find one? Will you become sick and die?
KIRK: No. Over something as simple as this? No, it'll cure itself eventually, but. Do you know, uh I don't even remember how this happened. Do you hear that?
ODONA: Yes, it sounds like an engine.
KIRK: No, the ship's engines don't make that kind of sound.
ODONA: But there is something wrong with the equipment. Could that be it?
KIRK: I know every sound that this ship might make. That's coming from outside.
ODONA: A storm might
KIRK: A storm might, but you wouldn't be able to hear it. Come on.

[Observation deck]
KIRK: This is a viewing port. We'll be able to see outside. If there's a storm, we'll be able to see it.
KIRK: If it works.
ODONA: People. The faces of people. And then the stars. What's happening? What's out there? The sound is gone.
KIRK: It was like the heartbeat of all those people, and thousands upon thousands more pressing against the ship.
ODONA: But you said we were moving through space.
KIRK: Yes, I said that.
ODONA: Then the people can't be out there.
KIRK: Yes, they can.
ODONA: Please don't frighten me.
KIRK: It could be a mirage. They could exist in our minds.
ODONA: You mean that we're going mad.
KIRK: Or some power is creating the illusion in our minds that we are somewhere near your planet. But why?
ODONA: I don't know. I don't know.
KIRK: I think I have an idea. So that we won't keep trying to find out where we are, that we'll be content to stay here.
ODONA: Oh, be content!
KIRK: Be content? Be content? Not until I find out what happened to my crew. Are they dead?
ODONA: I don't know.
KIRK: Did you kill them so you could have the ship to yourself?
ODONA: Captain.

[Council chamber]
ODONA (screen): Captain, something's happening to me. I never felt like this before.
KIRK (screen): I've never felt like this before either.
ODONA (screen): Is this the way one looks when one is developing a sickness?
KIRK (screen): There's no sickness on your planet, remember?
ODONA (screen): Now there will be. There will be sickness. There will be death.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Hodin.
HODIN: Yes, Captain Kirk. Our experiment has passed the first stage.
KIRK: Let me in there. I can help her.
HODIN: We have no need of any of your medicines.
KIRK: But she's ill.
HODIN: And we're grateful to you for her illness. You have done well, my daughter.
HODIN: Guard the captain well. We shall need him for a long time.

[Bridge]
ADMIRAL (screen): I sympathize deeply, but Starfleet cannot override Federation directives in this matter.
SPOCK: Admiral, the crew will not understand it.
ADMIRAL (screen): Has your crew suddenly become interested in provoking a war? That is not Starfleet's mission.
SPOCK: We wish only to save the life of the captain.
ADMIRAL (screen): You have not proved your case to the Federation, or to Starfleet, for that matter.
SPOCK: I am positive that I can do so to your satisfaction, Admiral. I have been convinced, since my first exchange with the ambassador, that the captain has been taken prisoner.
ADMIRAL (screen): Granted as fact, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I now know where the captain is being held, if he is being held at the same place to which we transported him.
ADMIRAL (screen): They would not dare harm him in the Gideon council chamber.
SPOCK: Sir, the captain is not being held in the Gideon council chamber. He is being held nearby.
ADMIRAL (screen): You have answered what and where. I'm waiting for your explanation of why.
SPOCK: Since the planet is shielded from our sensors, we cannot establish that without on the spot investigation.
ADMIRAL (screen): Do you have evidence the captain's life is threatened? Permission denied.
SPOCK: Admiral, I wish to state for the record that your decision is completely arbitrary.
ADMIRAL (screen): So noted.

[Captain's quarters]
ODONA: Will it last long?
HODIN: That depends on the strength of the one infected. You have great strength.
ODONA: How will you know when I am to die?
HODIN: Your body temperature will be very great. You will see us, but you will not know who we are.
ODONA: I must see him before then, Father.
HODIN: Rest. Now lie still. Do you feel great pain?
ODONA: Yes, in my arms and thighs.
HODIN: What is it like to feel pain?
ODONA: It is like, like when you see the people have no hope for happiness, Father. You feel great despair, and your heart is heavy because you know you can do nothing. Pain is like that.
HODIN: Your courage gives me great pride.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Let me see her.
HODIN: Not yet.
KIRK: You don't know what she may have.
HODIN: But we do. She has Vegan choriomeningitis.
KIRK: It's very rare, and always fatal if not treated within twenty four hours. I know, it almost killed me.
HODIN: Yes. Our prime minister learned about you during our negotiations. That's why we brought you here. Your blood provided the micro-organisms which infected her.
KIRK: That's how my arm got hurt.
HODIN: Yes. As Odona told you, we have no need for medical practitioners here. Our apologies. We were unforgivably awkward to have hurt you.
KIRK: You're mad.
HODIN: No. We are desperate.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: I don't understand how Starfleet can deny permission to beam down to search for the captain.
SPOCK: They did not ask for our understanding, Doctor.
SCOTT: I don't see how they expect us to sit here and wait for the captain to reappear.
SPOCK: Unfortunately, I must violate a direct order from Starfleet.
MCCOY: That's the best possible decision you could make, Spock. I'm with you.
SPOCK: I do not make it lightly, Doctor. However, Command knows that Ambassador Hodin has not been totally honest with us. Lieutenant Uhura, repeat original Gideon co-ordinates for beam down.
UHURA: Eight seven five, zero two zero, zero seven nine.
SPOCK: Mister Scott, the co-ordinates given you?
SCOTT: Eight seven five, zero two zero, seven zero nine.
MCCOY: Co-ordinates don't match.
SPOCK: Precisely. I shall beam down at once. Mister Scott, you have the conn.
MCCOY: I'll pick up my medical tricorder and meet you in the transporter room.
SPOCK: Negative, Doctor. I cannot accept the responsibility for ordering a fellow officer to violate a Starfleet directive. I can make such a decision only for myself.
MCCOY: I'm not asking you to make the decision for me.
SPOCK: The situation forces me to do so, Doctor.
MCCOY: In that case, it's the worst possible decision you can make, Spock.
SPOCK: This will not take long.
SCOTT: Isn't that just about what Captain Kirk said before he left?

[Fake Transporter room]
SPOCK: Captain Kirk. Spock here. Captain Kirk?

[Council chamber]
KIRK: Your report to the Federation was a tissue of lies. You described environmental, physical, cultural conditions that would make Gideon a paradise.
HODIN: And so it was! A long, long time ago what we described was true! The atmosphere on Gideon has always been germ-free. And the people flourished in their physical and spiritual perfection. Eventually, even the life span increased. Death became almost unknown to us. It occurred only when the body could no longer regenerate itself, and that happens now only to the very old.
KIRK: Those are conditions most people would envy.
HODIN: But Gideon did not find it enviable. The birth rate continued to rise, and the population grew, until now Gideon is encased in a living mass who can find no rest, no peace, no joy.
KIRK: Then why haven't you introduced any of the new techniques to sterilize men and women?
HODIN: Every organ renews itself. It would be impossible.
KIRK: Then let your people learn about the devices to safely prevent conception. The Federation will provide anything you need.
HODIN: But you see, the people of Gideon have always believed that life is sacred. That the love of life is the greatest gift. That is the one unshakable truth of Gideon. And this overwhelming love of life has developed our regenerative capacity and our great longevity.
KIRK: And the great misery which you now face.
HODIN: That is bitterly true, Captain. Nevertheless, we cannot deny the truth which shaped our evolution. We are incapable of destroying or interfering with the creation of that which we love so deeply. Life, in every form, from fetus to developed being. It is against our tradition, against our very nature. We simply could not do it.
KIRK: Yet you can kill a young girl.
HODIN: We're trying to re-adjust the life cycle of an entire civilisation.
KIRK: You're killing your own daughter. How can you do that?
HODIN: My daughter hoped to make you feel the agony of Gideon. But it was impossible. No stranger could realize the horror that life can be here. I will not beg for your understanding of my personal grief, nor will I parade it for you to gain your co-operation. My love for my daughter is too deep for display. My pride in her runs even deeper. My daughter freely chose to do what she is doing, as the people of Gideon are free to choose.
KIRK: The virus you need is very rare. Who will provide it?
HODIN: You will stay. Your blood will provide it.
KIRK: No sir, not me. You have many methods available. I've mentioned only a few. I do not offer my life for this purpose. I have many plans, and I have hopes other than death for Odona.
HODIN: My daughter pleaded with you to stay.
KIRK: What was said and what happened between us was for us alone.
HODIN: She hoped you would love her and wish to stay.
KIRK: So that was your plan. That I would fall so under her spell that I would give up my freedom and become a willing sacrifice.
HODIN: Stay with us. We're desperate.
KRODAK: Odona's fever is rising. She's calling the name of James Kirk.
HODIN: You see, you cannot leave us now. Go to her.

[Empty Bridge]
SPOCK: An exact duplicate of the Enterprise. But completely inoperative. Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: I am speaking to you from the bridge of the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: You're where?
SPOCK (voiceover): On the bridge of the Enterprise, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Those were the co-ordinates you insisted on.

[Empty Bridge]
SPOCK: And they were correct. I'm on board an exact duplicate of the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: An exact duplicate of the Enterprise? Is it in orbit, Mister Spock?

[Empty Bridge]
SPOCK: In orbit, Doctor. In a manner of speaking, Gideon is in orbit and the ship is on Gideon.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Well, that's a beginning, but what about the captain?

[Empty Bridge]
SPOCK: I'm sure he's on board somewhere. I'm picking up life readings. Spock out. Ship's log, stardate 5423.8. First Officer Spock reporting. Obviously the Gideon's have transported Captain Kirk onto this replica of the Enterprise to so confuse his mind as to make him susceptible to some extraordinary experiment. It is my intention to locate the captain and warn him before the experiment reaches its conclusion, which logic indicates means the end of the captain's life as he knows it.

[Captain's quarters]
KIRK: If you don't allow me to bring Doctor McCoy down here, it'll soon be too late to do anything for her.
HODIN: We have told you, it is her wish and mine that there be no interference with the natural progress of the virus.
KIRK: Her death is unnecessary. Even if she lives, her blood will provide the same serum you need as mine would.
HODIN: No, her death at so young an age will let the people know for certain that our lifecycle can be changed. It's the symbol that'll bring forth the dedicated young volunteers. The serum in their new blood will change Gideon, and it will once more be the paradise it was.
ODONA: I'm glad that you are here. Is the time short?
KIRK: Very short.
ODONA: And I asked you to make our journey last forever. Oh. It began here.
KIRK: And it can continue. If only you'll allow me, I can cure you.
ODONA: I'm not afraid of what will happen, but it's just that now I wish with all my heart to stay with you forever.
SPOCK: Your Excellency. Captain, you're looking well. Evidently Starfleet's analysis was correct.
KIRK: Mister Spock, we have a patient for Doctor McCoy. Have Scotty beam us up.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Scott here.
SPOCK (voiceover): Three to beam up, Mister Scott.

[Captain's quarters]
SCOTT (voiceover): Same co-ordinates?
SPOCK: Negative. Lock in on my communicator signal. Your Excellency, please do not interfere. I already have one serious problem to resolve with upper echelons.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Well, that was close, but you made it.
ODONA: I am cured?
MCCOY: Right. Just like the captain.
ODONA: Instead of smiling at me, you should be shouting in anger.
KIRK: Why, because you're well again?
ODONA: No. Because I pretended to be How can you bear to look at me after the way I deceived you?
KIRK: At least you owe me the privilege of letting me look at you.
ODONA: You are a gentleman, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Thank you, ma'am.
ODONA: You are no longer needed on Gideon. I can take your place there.
KIRK: Is that what you want to do?
ODONA: That is what I must do. I am needed there now.
KIRK: You're needed everywhere, Odona.

[Corridor]
ODONA: It is not like our ship.
KIRK: Oh, yes, it is. It's exactly the same. Only this one works.
ODONA: It goes to many other planets?
KIRK: Yes, it goes to the whole galaxy. With another difference. This one is crowded.
ODONA: It seems crowded to you?
KIRK: It does now.
ODONA: Are you going to stay on the ship?
KIRK: Yes, Odona, I have to.
ODONA: As crowded as my planet is, I could wish for it to hold one more person.
KIRK: Kirk to transporter control. One to beam down to the planet Gideon.
ODONA: I will miss you, Captain James Kirk.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5725.3. The Enterprise is en route to Memory Alpha. It is a planetoid set up by the Federation solely as a central library containing the total cultural history and scientific knowledge of all planetary Federation members. With us is specialist Lieutenant Mira Romaine. She is on board to supervise the transfer of newly designed equipment directly from the Enterprise to Memory Alpha.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: You're the sanest, the smartest, the nicest woman that has ever come aboard this ship.
MIRA: Anything else?
SCOTT: Anything else, I'll keep to myself for the moment.
KIRK (voiceover): When a man of Scotty's years falls in love, the loneliness of his life is suddenly revealed to him. His whole heart once throbbed only to the ship's engines. He could talk only to the ship. Now he can see nothing but the woman.

[Bridge]
CHEKOV: I didn't think Mister Scott would go for the brainy type.
SULU: I don't think he's even noticed she has a brain.
KIRK: Mister Scott. Mister Scott?
SCOTT: Hmm?
KIRK: As soon as we're within viewing range of Memory Alpha, you and Lieutenant Romaine will go to the emergency manual monitor. You'll prepare for direct transfer of equipment.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.
MIRA: We're ready, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant, may I offer my congratulations on what will be your first assignment for the Federation?
KIRK: Yes. Good luck, Lieutenant.
MIRA: Thank you.
SULU: Captain, I'm picking up a high intensity reading.
KIRK: Is that Memory Alpha?
SULU: No, sir. An engineer touches Scott's arm to attract his attention.)
SCOTT: Excuse me.
KIRK: Magnification eight. What is that?
SPOCK: Indications are a storm, Captain, although I've never seen one of such great intensity or strange confirmation.
KIRK: Readings?
SPOCK: All sensor readings are at maximum calibration.
SULU: Captain, it's approaching at warp factor two point six and accelerating.
KIRK: Check that. No natural phenomena can move faster than the speed of light.
SPOCK: It is definitely doing so, Captain. Therefore it cannot be a phenomenon of nature.
KIRK: Deflectors on. Condition yellow.
UHURA: Condition yellow, sir.
SULU: Shields activated, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, get us the devil out of here! Full scan on the disturbance that penetrated the Bridge. Lieutenant, all decks, damage report.
SCOTT: Mira!
KIRK: Doctor McCoy to the Bridge. Emergency. Emergency.
SCOTT: Mira! Mira! What's that you're saying'?
MCCOY: Was she hurt by the fall or the action of the disturbance?
KIRK: I don't know. Did you notice, Scotty?
SCOTT: Well, after the disturbance was over, she just collapsed. How's she doing, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, I think she's coming around now.
SCOTT: Easy, now. Easy. You had quite a fall.
MIRA: I'm, I'm fine.
MCCOY: You let me be the judge of that. Do you feel like walking to Sickbay?
MIRA: I'm fine, Doctor. Really, I am. Is everybody else all right?
SCOTT: Aye, they are. Now you just do what Doctor McCoy ordered.
MIRA: Why? I feel
KIRK: Get to Sickbay, Lieutenant. That's an order.
MIRA: Yes, sir.
SCOTT: Captain, would it be all right if I went along to Sickbay?
KIRK: No, Mister Scott. Stay at your post for the moment.
SCOTT: But Captain
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura. Damage report.
UHURA: Yes, sir. All stations are operative, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Some equipment was temporarily out of order. My sensors were inoperative.
KIRK: Any damage to the warp engines?
SPOCK: None, Captain.
KIRK: Good. From the action of that storm, we'll need all the speed we can get.
SPOCK: Captain, it was not a storm.
UHURA: Captain. During the disturbance, Memory Alpha was hailing. I wanted to respond, but I couldn't make my hand move.
CHEKOV: Captain. It was not hands that were paralyzed. It was eyes. I could not force my eyes to look down and set a new course.
SULU: No, it was speech that was affected. I couldn't utter a sound.
KIRK: Mister Spock, explanation.
SPOCK: Only of the result, not of the cause. In each case, a different area of the brain was affected. Our voluntary nerve functions were under some form of pressure.
KIRK: Or attack.
SPOCK: Attack might be a more precise formulation, Captain.
KIRK: And Lieutenant Romaine seems most susceptible.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Are the readings corresponding, Nurse?
CHAPEL: Everything appears normal, Doctor.
MCCOY: Thank you.
MIRA: What's that you're doing, Nurse?
CHAPEL: Recording your responses in this computer.
MIRA: But why? I haven't had a single response worth noting.
CHAPEL: Lieutenant, please.
MIRA: Well, have l?
MCCOY: Lieutenant, there are four hundred and thirty people aboard this ship. You're the only one that passed out, and I want to know why.
MIRA: I want to know why too. You're the doctor, you tell me. This is a new experience for me.
MCCOY: This whole thing is a new experience for all of us.
MIRA: All of you are accustomed to new experiences. It's part of your work. I'm not.
SCOTT: She might have something there, Doctor McCoy. This is her first deep space trip, and you know that affects people.
MCCOY: Well, if we can get on with this, Scotty, we might make that determination. Now then, tell me. What did you feel before you passed out?
MIRA: Nothing.
MCCOY: Nothing?
MIRA: Absolutely nothing.
MCCOY: Lieutenant
MIRA: Doctor, there is nothing more I can tell you.
MCCOY: Lieutenant, you're being completely unco-operative!
MIRA: Are you putting that into my record? It's not true.
MCCOY: I'll put the facts into your record, if I can get them.
SCOTT: Come on now, Mira. We must help the doctor. Tell us what happened.
MCCOY: Perhaps you can explain to her that any career she hopes for in Starfleet requires diskipline and co-operation.
SCOTT: I'm sure that's what the lieutenant wants. She just didn't understand. Did you now, lass?
CHAPEL: With a bedside manner like that, Scotty, you're in the wrong business.
MIRA: When the record of this is forwarded, I'll be sent back, won't I.
SCOTT: Oh, you will not! That's ridiculous. This getting used to space travel, that takes some doing. And not everybody takes to it.
MIRA: Did you?
SCOTT: Well, me, that's different. I was practically born to it.
MIRA: I want to continue.
SCOTT: You will. You passed your Starfleet preliminary examinations. And this is just getting used to what you might call your space legs.
MIRA: I hope that's all it is.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, I've plotted the storm's path.
KIRK: Main screen projection.
SULU: On its present course, it will hit Memory Alpha planetoid as it did us.
KIRK: Lieutenant, try and warn Memory Alpha of the proximity of that phenomena. Give me an ETA for its possible impact.
CHEKOV: I cannot, sir. It has the ability to change speed.
UHURA: Sir, I'm unable to establish contact with the planetoid. I'm hailing on all frequencies. No response.
SPOCK: It is of little consequence, Captain. Memory Alpha has no protective shields.
KIRK: No shields?
SPOCK: None, Captain. When the library complex was assembled, shielding was considered inappropriate to its totally academic purpose. Since the information on the Memory planet is available to everyone, special protection was deemed unnecessary.
KIRK: Wonderful. I hope the storm is aware of that rationale.
CHEKOV: Completing approach to planetoid.
SULU: It is already over Memory Alpha, Captain! Its speed is incredible. It's hitting the planetoid.
KIRK: Are we within orbit range, Mister Chekov?
CHEKOV: Making final approach.
KIRK: Lieutenant, try and warn them of
UHURA: I'm sorry, sir. I can't break through this interference.
KIRK: Mister Spock, how many people are on Memory Alpha?
SPOCK: It varies with the number of scholars, researchers, and scientists from the various Federation planets who are using the computer complex.
CHEKOV: Captain, we are within orbit range.
KIRK: Lock into orbit.
CHEKOV: Aye, sir.
SULU: It is leaving Memory Alpha, Captain.
SPOCK: Sensors give no readings of generated energy from Memory Alpha, Captain.
KIRK: Any life readings?
SPOCK: None.
KIRK: Let's find out what's going on down there. Kirk to Engineering. Mister Scott, report. Kirk to Engineering. Mister Scott. Where the devil is he? Scotty, report to the Bridge. Report to the Bridge. Have the transporter room stand by. I'm taking a landing party down.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
KIRK: Scotty, where've you been? Where are you?
SCOTT: In the Sickbay.
KIRK: Are you sick?

[Sickbay]
SCOTT: Och, no. I was just checking on the lass. She's going to be fine now. There's nothing wrong with her.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Well, I'm relieved to hear your prognosis, Mister Scott. Is the doctor there with you, or will I find him in Engineering?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: McCoy here, Jim.
KIRK (voiceover): Doctor, how's the girl?
MCCOY: I think she's in good shape.
KIRK (voiceover): Well, Mister Scott seems to agree with you. The two of you meet me in the transporter room on the double.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental, stardate 5725.6. The storm has cleared Memory Alpha. It is heading away at incredible speed. We have been unable to make contact with the planetoid. Its silence is ominous. We are beaming down to investigate.

[Memory Alpha]
MCCOY: Somehow, I find transporting into the darkness unnerving.
KIRK: Scotty, can you get us some more light?
SCOTT: I'm afraid this light'll have to do, Captain. The generator is inoperative.
KIRK: Damage report, Spock.
SPOCK: A disaster for the galaxy, Captain. The central brain is damaged. The memory core is burned out. The loss to the galaxy may be irretrievable.
SCOTT: Captain!
SPOCK: A very faint life reading in the immediate vicinity, Captain.
KIRK: Locate him and keep him alive. We need more information about this enemy.
MCCOY: Over here, Captain!
KIRK: Bones, can you do something?
MCCOY: Not a thing, Jim. The same garbled sounds Lieutenant Romaine made when she fainted after the storm.
KIRK: Are you sure?
MCCOY: Absolutely sure.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SULU (voiceover): Sulu here.
KIRK: Beam down Lieutenant Romaine immediately.
SULU (voiceover): Yes, sir.
KIRK: Spock, have you seen anything like that before?
SPOCK: Negative.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: She's dead.
KIRK: What did she die of?
MCCOY: Severe brain hemorrhaging due to distortion of all neural systems, dissolution of autonomic nervous system. All basic personality factors, Captain.
SPOCK: The attack was thorough.
KIRK: What did the others die of?
MCCOY: Each had a different center of brain destroyed, cause unknown.
KIRK: A different center of the brain, you say?
MCCOY: Yes, Captain. I can be more detailed when we return to the ship and use the ship's computers.
SCOTT: Mira! The captain has some questions.
MIRA: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant, when you were unconscious, you were speaking.
MIRA: What did I say?
KIRK: I don't know. The words were unfamiliar to me.
MIRA: What did it sound like?
KIRK: They sounded exactly like the last words spoken by the technician.
MIRA: What technician?
MCCOY: We found one person in there just barely alive. The rest were dead, and we
KIRK: Lieutenant. Lieutenant.
MIRA: We must get back to the ship!
KIRK: Why? Tell me why.
MIRA: That storm, it's returning.
KIRK: How do you know?
MIRA: I know. You'll be killed if we stay.
SPOCK: Lieutenant, I assure you that unexplained phenomenon was headed away from the planet. It is probably seeking other victims.
MIRA: I tell you t will kill us.

[Bridge]
SULU: Enterprise to Captain Kirk.

[Memory Alpha]
KIRK: Kirk here.
SULU (voiceover): Bridge, sir. The storm has reappeared on the long range scanner and is closing fast.
KIRK: What's its course?
SULU (voiceover): Coming back in this direction.
KIRK: Beam us up.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, this is the captain. Get the Enterprise out of here.
SCOTT: Wait, Captain. We've lost Mira.
KIRK: Delay that order, Mister Sulu!
SCOTT: Stabilize her!
KYLE: Something's interfering with the transporter signal. I have her co-ordinates, but she's suspended in transit.
SCOTT: Let me.
KIRK: All right, Mister Sulu, get us out of here. Mister Scott, check emergency manual monitor for transporter control.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, it's changing course.
KIRK: Plot the new course, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: Present course is one two six mark twenty.
KIRK: Plot it. Present course will bring it across our starboard side, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, you made a statement that phenomenon is not a storm. Explain.
SPOCK: No known conditions in space would support that type of natural phenomenon.
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: I'm having difficulty with the ship's sensors. They seem to be under selective attack by the phenomenon as the unfortunate occupants of Memory Alpha were.
KIRK: Then deductive reasoning will have to be substituted.
SPOCK: Ship's sensors are operating at the moment. Perhaps the elusive creature will now reveal something about itself.

[Engineering]
MIRA: I saw those men dead, in their exact positions!
SCOTT: Listen to me. I've told you what strange tricks a space trip can play on your mind. Now, that's all it is.
MIRA: No, Scotty.
SCOTT: Have you ever had visions of the future events before this?
MIRA: Never.
SCOTT: Well, if you ask me, nobody ever has. That seeing to the future, it's pure bunk. You know that, don't you?
MIRA: I've always believed it.
SCOTT: And you were perfectly right.
MIRA: Then what is it, Scotty? What's frightening me? Ever since that storm hit, I've, I've had such strange thoughts, such feelings of terror.
SCOTT: Space. Space, that's all it is.
MIRA: Then I don't have to report it?
SCOTT: Well, if you want to spend the rest of the trip in Sickbay. But what good would that do? Doctor McCoy can no more cure it than he can a cold.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, it's heading straight for us.
KIRK: Activate shields.
SULU: Shields activated.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, change course to one four three mark three.
CHEKOV: One four three mark three.
KIRK: Storm's course, Mister Sulu?
SULU: One four three mark three.
KIRK: Take evasive action.
SULU: Evasive action.
KIRK: Hard starboard, two one seven mark five.
SULU: Two one seven mark five. Still with us, sir.
KIRK: Hard port, one one seven mark two.
SULU: One one seven mark two. Still with us, sir!
KIRK: Is it closing?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. Maintaining its distance. However, it is matching each maneuver we execute, and I am receiving increasing magnitude of energy.
KIRK: Your analysis, Spock. What is it?
SPOCK: Not what is it, Captain. What are they? There are ten distinct life units within it, all powerfully alive and vital.
KIRK: Who are they? Where are they from?
SPOCK: Impossible to determine without programming for computer analysis.
KIRK: It's clear we can't outrun them. Can we shield against them?
SPOCK: I do not believe the Enterprise shields would prove an effective defense.
KIRK: There must be some defense we can use.
SPOCK: Captain, we are dealing with a community of life units. Their attack is in the form of brain waves directed against the brain, which is most compatible.
KIRK: Maybe we can avoid another attack. Lieutenant Uhura, open all channels. Tie in the universal translator. Mister Spock says it's alive. Maybe I can talk to it.
UHURA: All channels open. Translator tied in.
KIRK: This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We wish you no harm. Physical contact between us is fatal to our life forms. Please, do not come any closer to our ship.
SPOCK: Perhaps it did not understand.
SULU: Captain, change in velocity recorded. They are passing our starboard side and maneuvering in front of us. Switching to forward scanner. Captain, change in velocity recorded. It has accelerated its approach.

[Engineering]
MIRA: Help, Scotty!
SCOTT: What?
MIRA: Hold me. It's happening again. No!
SCOTT: Mira.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Perhaps it understands another kind of language. Condition Red Alert. Prepare for phaser firing.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Mira.
MIRA: No, Scotty. No! No. (Scott holds her close.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lock in phaser tracking controls. Locked in, sir.
KIRK: Adjust phasers to fire across its course. Do not hit it.
SULU: Locked in, sir.
KIRK: Fire. Reaction, Mister Sulu?
SULU: None, sir. They're still approaching us.
KIRK: Apparently a shot across the bow is insufficiently convincing. Prepare to lock phasers into the heart of the community.
SULU: Locked in, sir.
KIRK: Fire.

[Engineering]
MIRA: Scotty!
SCOTT: Mira! Mira.

[Bridge]
SULU: The phasers seem to have stopped their approach. They're holding position.
KIRK: Lock in for another blast.
SULU: Locked in, sir.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain! Captain, the phaser shots, they're killing Mira!
KIRK: Killing Lieutenant Romaine?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye. When you fired the phasers, they stunned her and she crumpled.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Another shot and you'll kill her!
KIRK: Get her to Sickbay at once.
SULU: Ready for firing, Captain.
KIRK: Cancel that order. Another attack on that alien life form will kill Lieutenant Romaine.
SPOCK: It appears so.
KIRK: If she is to survive, we can't attack.
SPOCK: Not directly.
KIRK: Can the computer supply a defense based on the data you've been accumulating?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. I have not been able to gather sufficient data for that. Captain, there is only one possible defense. If we can find an environment which is deadly to the alien form.
KIRK: And yet isolate the girl from its deadly effects. Captain Kirk to Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Is the girl well enough to be questioned?
MCCOY (voiceover): I can have her ready in a few minutes.
KIRK: Have the Lieutenant and Mister Scott in the briefing room as quickly as possible. Bring all available biographical material with you. Kirk out. Mister Spock, come with me.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: Go easy on her, Jim. She's in a pretty bad state.
KIRK: I'll try.
KIRK: Lieutenant Romaine.
MIRA: I didn't mean to be unco-operative, Doctor.
MCCOY: Of course you didn't. I told the Captain.
KIRK: We must get to understand what is happening.
MIRA: I'll tell you everything I know.
KIRK: Ship's investigative procedures are sometimes confusing to a new crewman. Don't let us upset you.
MIRA: I trust all of you implicitly. I want to help.
KIRK: This investigation has been prompted by two events. First is the time you passed out on the Bridge, and the second is when we fired our main phasers into that force that is attacking us and seriously injured you.
MIRA: You mustn't worry about hurting me.
KIRK: Now this is how we'll proceed. Mister Spock has all the information available to us about our attackers. Doctor McCoy has access to Starfleet's exhaustive files on you. A comparison of the two may turn up some improbable connection which may protect you and ourselves. All right, gentlemen? Doctor McCoy, will you proceed?
MCCOY: Romaine, Mira. Lieutenant. Place of birth, Martian Colony Number Three. Parents, Lydia Romaine, deceased. Jacques Romaine, chief engineer, Starfleet, retired.
KIRK: Mister Spock, are you prepared with the background history of the attackers?
SPOCK: I am, Captain. I have fed all obtainable data to the main computer. It should be ready to supply whatever conclusions are possible.
KIRK: Thank you. Mister Sulu, what is the status of our friends?
SULU (screen): Status unchanged. They're still with us and keeping the same distance.
KIRK: Continue evasive maneuvers. Keep me informed. Kirk out. Doctor, do you have a medical record of Lieutenant Romaine available?
MCCOY: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: I'd like a few items from her psychological profile checked. Any history of psychosomatic illness?
MCCOY: Occasional and teenage routine incidents.
KIRK: Any evidence of involuntary or unconscious telepathic abilities?
MCCOY: None.
KIRK: Any pathological or unusual empathic responses?
MCCOY: No, Captain, not empathic. However, an extremely flexible and pliant response to new learning situations is highly marked.
KIRK: Go ahead, Doctor.
MCCOY: After our phasers hit that thing, I gave Lieutenant Romaine a standard Steinman analysis. The results might be interesting.
KIRK: Go ahead.
MCCOY: The comparison of our Steinman with Starfleet records shows that Lieutenant Romaine's fingerprints, voice analysis, all external factors remain exactly the same as before. However, according to two hyperencephalograms, her brain wave pattern has been altered.
KIRK: That's impossible!
MCCOY: That's what I was taught. But the BCP is just as consistent as fingerprints.
KIRK: Let's see it.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, according to your records, Lieutenant Romaine showed no abnormal telepathic powers.
MCCOY: That's right, Spock. But exceptional pliancy was indicated. That might be a factor.
SPOCK: And you are sure that this is the correct slide?
MCCOY: Yes, Mister Spock. That is tape deck D, brain circuitry pattern of Lieutenant Mira Romaine.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, it also happens to be tape H, the impulse tracking obtained from the alien life units.
MCCOY: Nurse Chapel followed this every step of the way. There can be no error.
KIRK: Check it, Spock.
SPOCK: As I said, Captain, this is the tracking obtained during the last shielded run. Computer, run a detailed comparison brain circuitry patterns, tape D and tape H.
COMPUTER: Comparison tape D's brain circuitry patterns of Lieutenant Mira Romaine and tape H, brain circuitry patterns of alien life unit, identical. Identical.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
MCCOY: There has been no error.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy is correct, Captain. There is an identity of minds taking place between the alien beings and the mind of Lieutenant Romaine. Their thoughts are becoming hers.

[Bridge]
SULU: Bridge to Captain Kirk.

[Briefing room]
SULU (voiceover): The alien is no longer maintaining its distance.
KIRK: Continue evasive action. Keep me informed. Kirk out.
SCOTT: Mira has tried to tell me all along that she was seeing things in advance.
KIRK: Why didn't you report it?
SCOTT: You don't report space sickness. That's all I thought it was.
KIRK: What did she see?
SCOTT: The first attack on the ship, the attack on Memory Alpha and the time we nearly lost her.
KIRK: Those were all acts carried out by our attacker.
SCOTT: And? And?
KIRK: Yes, Scotty? What else?
SCOTT: I thought for a moment there was something else, but I guess I was wrong.
KIRK: Was he wrong, Lieutenant?
MIRA: Yes, there was one other time.
KIRK: What did you see?
MIRA: I saw Scotty.
KIRK: Where?
MIRA: I don't know.
KIRK: What was he doing?
MIRA: He was dying. Now I understand what's been happening. I've been seeing through another mind. I've been flooded with thoughts not my own that control me. Oh, Scotty, Scotty! I'd rather die than hurt you. I'd rather die. SCOTT@ All right, now. What's all this talk of dying? They've called the turn on us three out of four times. Now, that's a better average than anybody deserves. It's our turn now. We'll fight them. So let's not hear anything more about dying.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SULU (voiceover): Sulu, Captain. All evasion tactics carried out as ordered.
KIRK: What success did you have?
SULU (voiceover): It's been useless, Captain.
SPOCK: At their present force, they will get through the shields this time, Captain.
KIRK: Warp eight, Mister Sulu.
SULU (voiceover): Yes, sir.
KIRK: They'll be here very soon. They may destroy you and us as they did Memory Alpha. You are especially susceptible to their will. But we have one chance to survive. Don't resist. Let them begin to function through you. If we can control that moment, we have a chance. Will you try?
MIRA: Tell me what to do.
KIRK: Captain Kirk to medical lab.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Medical lab here, sir.
KIRK: Prepare the antigrav test units. Let's go.

[Bridge]
SULU: Attention. All personnel, attention. Alien force has penetrated the ship.

[Corridor]
SULU (voiceover): Take defensive action. Attention, all personnel. The alien being has penetrated the ship. Take defensive action.
SECURITY (voiceover): General quarters. Security condition three. Intruder alert. Repeat. General quarters. Security condition three. Intruder alert.

[Medical lab]
KIRK: As soon as she has entered the gravity chamber, secure all ports.
MIRA: Don't touch me, Scotty! Stay away.
SCOTT: We've lost her to them.
KIRK: Stay where you are.
MCCOY: She could kill us all in this state.
SPOCK: She will, unless we are able to complete what the captain has planned.
SCOTT: Stay with us, Mira. Please stay.
MIRA: I'm trying. I want to be with you. They are too strong.
KIRK: Don't lose yourself to them. Hold on.
MIRA: I am Mira Romaine. I will be who I choose to be. I will. Stay away, Scotty! They are with me. They will kill you.
SCOTT: You won't let them.
ZETAR: She cannot stop us. You cannot prevent it.
SCOTT: Mira. Mira! Captain.
KIRK: That's not Mira talking.
SPOCK: Captain, we must deal with them directly, now, while she still retains partial identity. We can speak to them. They will answer using her voice.
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk of the spaceship Enterprise. Do you understand?
ZETAR: Yes, we understand you. We have searched for a millennium for one through whom we can see and speak and hear and live out our lives.
KIRK: Who are you?
ZETAR: We are from Zetar.
SPOCK: That is one of the planets where all humanoid life was destroyed.
KIRK: You can't be from Zetar. All life was destroyed there long ago.
ZETAR: Yes, all corporeal life was destroyed.
KIRK: Then what are you?
ZETAR: The desires, the hopes, the mind and the will of the last hundred of Zetar. The force of our life could not be wiped out.
KIRK: All things die.
ZETAR: At the proper time. Our planet was dying. We were determined to live on. At the peak of our plans to go, a sudden final disaster struck us down. But the force of our lives survived. At last we have found someone through whom we can live it out.
KIRK: The body of the one you inhabit has its own life to lead.
ZETAR: She will accept ours.
KIRK: She will not. She is fighting for her own identity.
ZETAR: Her mind will accept our thoughts. Our lives will be fulfillled.
KIRK: Will she learn the way people on Memory Alpha learned?
ZETAR: We did not wish to kill.
KIRK: But you did kill!
ZETAR: No. Resisting us killed those people. We did not kill them.
KIRK: The price of your survival is too high.
ZETAR: We only want the girl.
KIRK: You can't have her. You're entitled to your own life, but not another's.
MIRA: Life was given to me. It is mine. I want to live it out. I will
MCCOY: The girl's life reading is becoming a match to the Zetarians. She's losing.
ZETAR: Do not fight us.
SPOCK: They will not accept their own deaths.
KIRK: They'll be forced to accept it.
ZETAR: You will all die.
SPOCK: Captain, if we cannot complete the plan, they will carry out their threat.
KIRK: We must get her into the pressure chamber.
MCCOY: Jim, you realize the pressure needed to kill the Zetars might kill the girl too.
SCOTT: Mira will not kill me.
SCOTT: I told you she wouldn't kill me.
KIRK: Secure the chamber. Neutralize gravity.
MCCOY: The Zetars are growing stronger.
SPOCK: The weightless state has become their natural condition.
KIRK: Pressurize the unit. Bring pressure to two atmospheres and then increase one atmosphere per second. Continue increasing pressure. Pressure, Spock. Pressure.
MCCOY: The pressure is dangerously high, Captain. It may damage her.
KIRK: Continue, Spock.
KIRK: Pressure!
MCCOY: We've done it, Jim. They're gone.
SCOTT: It's all right, Mira. They're gone. They're gone!
MCCOY: Reduce the pressure very, very gradually, Spock.
SPOCK: We may tax Mister Scott's patience, Doctor.
MCCOY: Lie perfectly still, Lieutenant. Try not to move at all. Take deep, regular breaths. Now, don't hold it. Continue to breathe deeply. In, out. In, out. That's it. Now, you'll be in there another twenty minutes, so why don't you just try to relax?
SCOTT: Now we have all the time in the world.

[McCoy's office]
KIRK: Bones, are you able to judge the long range effects on Lieutenant Romaine?
MCCOY: When the personality of a human is involved, exact predictions are hazardous.
SPOCK: Particularly where humans are involved, Doctor.
MCCOY: However, despite Starfleet judgment of the pliancy of the Lieutenant, she put up a valiant struggle to retain her identity, and I find that encouraging.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy is correct, Captain. While the truth was difficult to accept, when it was revealed, the girl reacted well. I would say her struggle in this experience would strengthen her entire ego structure.
KIRK: Would either of you credit Scotty's steadfast belief in her as a factor?
SPOCK: You mean, love as motivation? Humans do claim a great deal for that particular emotion. I suppose it is possible. However
MCCOY: There are no howevers about it, Mister Spock. It was a factor, and it will be a factor in the girl's recovery.
KIRK: Do I take it both of you agree that Lieutenant Romaine need not return to Starbase for further treatment?
MCCOY: Well, I should think work would be a better therapy.
SPOCK: Logical.
KIRK: Captain Kirk to Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott, how's Lieutenant Romaine?
SCOTT (voiceover): Beautiful, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Scott. Do I take it you say that she is fit for duty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Positively, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you. Kirk to Bridge.
SULU (voiceover): Sulu, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, set course for Memory Alpha. Lieutenant Romaine has a lot of work to do there.
SULU (voiceover): Yes, sir.
KIRK: Well, this is an Enterprise first. Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock and Engineer Scott find themselves in complete agreement. Can I stand the strain?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5818.4. A botanical plague is devastating a planet in the quadrant of the galaxy where the Enterprise is operating at present. It threatens to destroy the vegetation on the entire planet, leaving it uninhabitable.

[Bridge]
KIRK: At Federation orders, we're proceeding at top warp speed to the planet Ardana, where the only source of zenite exists. It is the one substance that can halt the plague.
UHURA: Captain, the High Advisor of Ardana is ready to receive you on Stratos, sir.
KIRK: On Stratos? That's their cloud city, isn't it, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: It is, Captain.
KIRK: There must be some mistake. Do you have the co-ordinates to the mine entrance available?
SPOCK: They've already been provided to the transport officer, Captain. Along with those of the council chamber of the High Advisor.
KIRK: Kirk to transporter room.
SCOTT (voiceover): Ready to transport, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Scott, are you locked in on the mine entrance or on their cloud city, Stratos?
SCOTT: The mine entrance. That's what you ordered, Captain.
KIRK: Fine. Uhura. Tell the High Advisor that we request to dispense with the welcoming ceremonies due to the emergency, and that we're beaming directly down to the mine entrance in order to ensure the fastest possible delivery of the zenite. The need is urgent.
UHURA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, come with me. Oh, and tell them that we appreciate the honor and that we look forward to some visit in the future.
UHURA: Aye, sir.

[Mine entrance]
SPOCK: Stratos, Captain. A city actually floating in the sky.
KIRK: Looks as tranquil as its reputation, doesn't it.
SPOCK: It is one of the most interesting metropolises in the galaxy. Have you ever visited here, Captain?
KIRK: Once. I didn't have time to look around.
SPOCK: I've never had the opportunity. However, I hear its art forms are incomparable.
KIRK: Yes, art is the population's chief occupation.
SPOCK: It is a totally intellectual society. All forms of violence have been eliminated.
KIRK: There's the mine entrance. The zenite consignment should have been there. I don't understand it. Those Troglyte miners were supposed to have made delivery when we beamed down.
SPOCK: Perhaps there is another entrance, Captain.
KIRK: Perhaps.
SPOCK: It would seem the Troglytes have changed their minds about delivery.
KIRK: Who are you? What's the meaning of this attack?
VANNA: Interference breeds attack, Captain. Come on!
KIRK: We're here by permission of your government council on an emergency mission.
VANNA: Move on, Captain!.
PLASUS: Troglytes, halt!
PLASUS: Surrender or we'll fire!
PLASUS: Are you harmed, gentlemen?
KIRK: No, just a little shaken up.
PLASUS: I'm Plasus, High Advisor of the planet council.
KIRK: Captain Kirk, Enterprise. My first officer, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Greetings, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS: My regrets for the unpleasantness of your welcome to Ardana.
KIRK: It was rather warm.
PLASUS: Unfortunately, violence is habitual with the Troglytes. But I assure you, this insult will not go unpunished.
KIRK: Well, I'm more concerned with the zenite consignment. Why wasn't it in its specified location?
PLASUS: Apparently the Disrupters have confiscated it, as I knew they would.
SPOCK: The Disrupters? Who are they?
PLASUS: A small group of Troglyte malcontents. All the other Troglytes are completely dominated by them. It's the Disrupters who are responsible for their refusal to continue mining for zenite.
KIRK: They agreed to the delivery. Your council assured us of it.
PLASUS: They agreed obviously as a ruse to get valuable hostages.
KIRK: Hostages? For what purpose?
PLASUS: To force the council to meet their demands. Organize a search party immediately and find the zenite consignment.
PLASUS: Meanwhile, Captain, I would suggest that you and First Officer Spock be our guests on Stratos.
KIRK: Very well. I do hope the search will be brief, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS: We'll do everything possible to make it so. Come, gentlemen.

[Stratos - Council gallery]
SPOCK: Remarkable. The finest example of sustained antigravity elevation I've ever seen.
DROXINE: The sentinel told me of our honored guests, my father. I came to extend greetings.
PLASUS: A most gracious act. One of our planet's most incomparable works of art. My daughter, Droxine. Captain James Kirk.
KIRK: Pleasure, madam.
DROXINE: Indeed, yes, Captain.
PLASUS: And First Officer Spock.
DROXINE: I have never before met a Vulcan, sir.
SPOCK: Nor I a work of art, madam.
PLASUS: Come, gentlemen. There is much to see in our city. This is our council gallery. It is open to all city dwellers. We have some of the finest of our various art forms assembled here for the viewing and contemplation of every
PLASUS: Disrupters again.
DROXINE: How dreadful!. They're despoiling the whole city.
SPOCK: Despoil? For what purpose?
PLASUS: By keeping us in constant turmoil, they hope to force the council to accede to their demands.
KIRK: What are their demands?
PLASUS: Completely unreasonable, Captain, but nothing you need be concerned with.
KIRK: I must concern myself with it if it should interfere with the delivery of zenite to Merak Two.
SPOCK: Mister Advisor, the plant life is the source of oxygen on that planet. Obviously, if all plant life is destroyed, the humanoid life will follow.
PLASUS: I assure you, gentlemen, you will get what you came for.
KIRK: I hope so. Ardana is a member of the Federation, and it is your council's responsibility that nothing interferes with its obligation to another member of the Federation.
PLASUS: Of course, and we accept the responsibility.
SPOCK: But why do they destroy art forms? That is a loss to everyone.
PLASUS: Art means nothing to the Disrupters. This is the only form they understand. The disturbances accompanying your arrival have been most wearying. No doubt you would like to rest.
SPOCK: That would be most welcome, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS: Chambers have been prepared for you. A sentinel will guide you to them.
DROXINE: I'm sorry they were so poorly treated on their first visit to our planet.
PLASUS: It's fortunate that they were not seriously hurt.
DROXINE: Oh, yes, that would have been dreadful.
PLASUS: Further violence could create grave difficulties between Ardana and the Federation.
DROXINE: The Disrupters must be mad to attack two such charming strangers.
PLASUS: They grow more daring and determined every day. Now they seek to find allies in the galaxy.
DROXINE: Do you think that Captain Kirk and his very attractive officer will feel that we're responsible for their injuries?
PLASUS: All this time I thought you were worried about our diplomatic relations.
SENTINEL: Apologies, Mister Advisor, but this Troglyte was apprehended leaving the city. He is without a transport card so we thought you would want to question him.
PLASUS: Remove his shields.
PLASUS: What is your business in Stratos, Troglyte? Speak! I command you!
TROGLYTE: My business is to repair.
PLASUS: Repair what?
TROGLYTE: There are damaged entrance panels.
PLASUS: Indeed. Then you must have a repair permit. Where is it?
TROGLYTE: It was forgotten.
PLASUS: Did you also forget your transport card?
TROGLYTE: It was lost when your sentinels attacked me.
PLASUS: And where was your cavern implement lost? Could this perhaps be it?
TROGLYTE: I came to make repairs.
PLASUS: And you shall make them by giving us the names of the Disrupters.
TROGLYTE: I know nothing.
PLASUS: I would advise you to increase your knowledge.
TROGLYTE: That is not possible for a Troglyte. The Stratos city dwellers have said it.
PLASUS: Secure him to the rostrum.
PLASUS: How unfortunate. How unfortunate.

[Guest accommodation]
SPOCK (voiceover): This troubled planet is a place of the most violent contrasts. Those who receive the rewards are totally separated from those who shoulder the burdens. It is not a wise leadership. Here on Stratos, everything is incomparably beautiful and pleasant. The High Advisor's charming daughter Droxine, particularly so. The name Droxine seems appropriate for her. I wonder, can she retain such purity and sweetness of mind and be aware of the life of the people on the surface of the planet? There, the harsh life in the mines is instillling the people with a bitter hatred. The young girl who led the attack against us when we beamed down was filled with the violence of desperation. If the lovely Droxine knew of the young miner's misery, I wonder how the knowledge would affect her.
DROXINE: Mister Spock, I thought you had accompanied Captain Kirk to the rest chamber.
SPOCK: Your movements awakened me.
DROXINE: My apologies. I did not realize they would disturb you.
SPOCK: Only Vulcan ears would find the noise diskernible.
DROXINE: It seems that Vulcans are fascinatingly different in many ways.
SPOCK: The same may be said of Stratos inhabitants.
DROXINE: Vulcan eyes are very diskerning too. I hear that, intellectually, Vulcans are as highly evolved as Stratos city dwellers.
SPOCK: We do pride ourselves on our logic.
KIRK: You again!
VANNA: You sleep lightly, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, duty is a good teacher. I see you've changed your dressmaker.
VANNA: Release me.
KIRK: So you can attack me again? That would be foolish.
VANNA: Call the guards if you're afraid, Captain.
KIRK: I'm not afraid. In fact, I find this rather enjoyable.
VANNA: I do not!
KIRK: All right, I'll make a deal with you. You answer some questions and I'll let you up.
VANNA: What questions?
KIRK: Your word first.
VANNA: I will answer.
DROXINE: You only take a mate once every seven years?
SPOCK: The seven-year cycle is biologically inherent in all Vulcan's. At that time, the mating drive outweighs all other motivations.
DROXINE: And is there nothing that can disturb that cycle, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Extreme feminine beauty is always disturbing, madam.
KIRK (voiceover): Spock?
VANNA: I did not come here to kill you, Captain.
KIRK: Then why this?
VANNA: To take you hostage. Spock and Droxine enter)
SPOCK: Am I intruding, Captain?
DROXINE: Vanna!
VANNA: Droxine.
DROXINE: Why have you come here?
VANNA: To welcome our honored guests as I was taught to do when I served in your father's household.
DROXINE: Has she injured you, Captain?
KIRK: No, not at all. In fact her visit was quite enlightening.
DROXINE: Oh?
KIRK: Yes, it seems the Troglytes are under the impression that the Enterprise is here to intimidate them.
DROXINE: Send a sentinel to the rest chamber immediately.
VANNA: It is not impression, Captain. It is the truth.
KIRK: We're here to get that zenite consignment, and that's it.
VANNA: Starships do not transport cargo.
KIRK: In times of emergency, they do anything. And believe me, this botanical plague is an emergency.
VANNA: Lies will not keep the Troglytes in the caverns, and neither will your starship.
DROXINE: You talk like a Disrupter, Vanna.
VANNA: I speak for my people. They have as much right to the clouds as the Stratos dwellers.
DROXINE: But Stratos is for advisors and studiers. What would Troglytes do here?
VANNA: Live in the sunlight and warmth, as everyone should.
DROXINE: The caverns are warm and your eyes are not accustomed to light, just as your minds are not accustomed to logic.
KIRK: Unaccustomed to light and warmth? That's necessary to all humanoids. Surely, you don't deny it to the Troglytes.
DROXINE: The Troglytes are workers, Captain. Oh surely, you must be aware of that. They mine zenite for shipment, till the soil. Those things cannot be done here.
SPOCK: In other words, they perform all the physical toil necessary to maintain Stratos.
DROXINE: That is their function in our society.
SPOCK: But they are not allowed to share its advantages.
DROXINE: How can they share what they do not understand?
KIRK: They can be taught to understand, especially in a society that prides itself in enlightenment.
DROXINE: The complete separation of toil and leisure has given Ardana this perfectly balanced social system, Captain. Why should we change it?
SPOCK: The surface of the planet is almost unendurable. To restrict a segment of the population to such hardship is unthinkable in an evolved culture.
DROXINE: The surface is marred by violence, like the Troglytes. But here in Stratos, we have completely eliminated violence.

[Council gallery]
PLASUS: You still refuse to disklose the names of the other Disrupters.
VANNA: There are no Disrupters!
PLASUS: Very well, if you prefer the rays.

[Guest accomodation]
SPOCK: Troglyte is an abbreviation of an ancient Earth term. Its technical translation is cave dweller.
KIRK: Yes, I should have realized.

[Council gallery]
KIRK: Mister Advisor!
KIRK: You said you were going to question Vanna, not torture her.
PLASUS: She's stubborn, and as you yourself pointed out, Captain, the search for your zenite consignment must be short.
KIRK: Surely there are better methods than this.
PLASUS: Physical diskomfort is extremely persuasive, Captain.
KIRK: Yes, but I won't stand by while someone is tortured!
PLASUS: Is it preferable to spare Vanna and allow an entire planet to be destroyed?
SPOCK: Violence in reality is quite different from theory, is it not, madam?
DROXINE: But what else can they understand, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: All the little things you and I understand and expect from life, such as equality, kindness, justice.
PLASUS: Troglytes are not like Stratos dwellers, Mister Spock. They're a conglomerate of inferior species. The abstract concepts of an intellectual society are beyond their comprehension.
KIRK: The abstract concepts of loyalty and leadership seem clear to Vanna.
PLASUS: A few Troglytes are brought here as retainers. Vanna was one of them, as are the sentinels. They've received more training than the others.
KIRK: But obviously no more consideration.
PLASUS: I fail to see the purpose of this continued criticism.
KIRK: The only way you'll use that device again is on one of us.
PLASUS: An imposing display of primitive gallantry, gentlemen. You realize, of course, that the sentinels could remove you.
KIRK: Of course, but Starfleet command won't take kindly to having either rays or physical force used against one of its command personnel, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS: Why are you so concerned with this Disrupter's well-being?
KIRK: Beyond plain humanitarianism, my orders are to get that zenite.
PLASUS: Then stop interfering, and I'll get it for you.
KIRK: You won't get it through torture.
PLASUS: We will get it for you, and in our own way. Remove the prisoner to confinement quarters. You will return to your ship at once or I shall contact your Starfleet command myself and report your interference with this planet's government.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Scott, we're ready to beam up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PLASUS: If Captain Kirk appears again, kill him.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, star date 5819.0. More than eight hours have passed since the consignment of zenite disappeared and we have still found no trace of it. We've received word from Merak Two that the plague is spreading rapidly. Delivery of the zenite is imperative within twelve hours or all life on the planet will be annihilated.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, advise Starfleet command that the zenite has not been delivered. In my opinion, Plasus' method of accomplishing delivery will not succeed. If the zenite is not delivered shortly, I shall have to violate Plasus' order of non-interference and win the confidence of the Troglyte leader with the use of reason.
MCCOY: That may not be easy, Jim. Medical analysis indicates the Troglytes are mentally inferior.
KIRK: That's impossible, Bones. The Troglytes have accepted personal sacrifice, a common cause. Mentally inferior beings aren't capable of that.
MCCOY: Look, I've checked my findings thoroughly. Their intellect ratings are almost twenty percent below average.
SPOCK: But they're all the same species. Those who live on Stratos and those who live below all originated on the planet. Their physical and mental evolution must be similar. That is basic biological law.
MCCOY: That's true, Spock, but obviously the ancestors of those who live on Stratos removed themselves from the environment of the mines. Therefore they avoided the effects of certain natural growths.
KIRK: Natural growths? What kind?
MCCOY: Well. I had this zenite sample sent up from the surface. Now unsealed, it would have had detrimental effects on everybody here.
SPOCK: Incredible. Zenite is shipped all over the galaxy wherever there is danger of plant bacteria. No side effects have ever been reported.
MCCOY: There are none after it's refined. But in its raw state, it emits a odorless, invisible gas that retards the intellectual functioning of the mind and heightens the emotional. Therefore, it releases a violent reaction.
KIRK: And the mines are full of that gas.
MCCOY: That's right. And the Troglytes are constantly exposed to it.
KIRK: Bones, the Disrupters, Vanna. It seems impossible. They've outwitted a highly organized, scientific culture for months.
SPOCK: As part of the staff of Stratos, Vanna was removed from exposure for a long period. It is likely that without such exposure, the effect slowly wears off.
MCCOY: That's right, Spock. The other Disrupters were probably removed from exposure too.
KIRK: Does the brain return to normal?
MCCOY: According to findings, it should.
KIRK: Can you neutralize the gas?
MCCOY: No, but a filter mask should remove the exposure.
KIRK: Find one. Meet us in the transporter room.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: This mask automatically eliminates all substance injurious to humanoid life, chemical as well as bacterial. We have used these filter masks frequently on
PLASUS (screen): Do you really expect me to believe that that mask can achieve intellectual equality for the Troglytes?
MCCOY: There's every indication that the effect of the gas is temporary, even after repeated exposure.
PLASUS (screen): How can a mere filter accomplish what centuries of evolution have failed to do?
KIRK: Doctor McCoy has analyzed the zenite thoroughly. We've checked his findings through the computer and they're absolutely valid.
PLASUS (screen): And do your computers explain how my ancestors, who also dwelt in caverns, evolved sufficiently to erect Stratos while the Troglytes did not?
SPOCK: Unequal evolution did not begin until after your ancestors removed themselves from constant exposure to the gas, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS (screen): Preposterous.
KIRK: There's no time to argue about the findings now. I simply propose to tell Vanna all about them.
PLASUS (screen): I doubt whether even Vanna will believe such nonsense!
KIRK: This nonsense might mean a great deal to the Troglytes. I would like to offer them a supply of these filter masks in exchange for the zenite consignment.
PLASUS (screen): I'm sorry, Captain. Such an offer could only cause more unrest among them. I cannot allow it until our scientists have checked the findings.
MCCOY: But that could take days.
KIRK: Are you afraid the filter masks will work? Is that why you don't want the Troglytes to try them?
PLASUS (screen): You are here to complete an emergency mission, not conduct tests, Captain.
KIRK: I am here to get that zenite. If these will help me get them, I'll use them.
PLASUS (screen): And I forbid it. Your Federation orders do not entitle you to defy local governments. This communication has ended.
KIRK: My diplomacy is somewhat inadequate.
MCCOY: It's pretty hard to overcome prejudice.
KIRK: Doesn't give us much choice, does it.
SPOCK: Nor much time. We have ten hours and forty minutes to deliver that consignment to Merak Two.
KIRK: Beam me down to Vanna's confinement quarters.
MCCOY: You mean you're going back to Stratos against government orders?
KIRK: If Vanna doesn't have something definite to gain for her people, she'll die rather than turn over that zenite consignment. This is the only thing that might convince her.
SPOCK: Captain, if you are apprehended deliberately violating the High Advisor's orders, he will be within his rights to have you executed, if he chooses.
KIRK: If you're about to suggest that you contact Vanna, the answer is negative, Spock. That goes for you too, Bones.
SPOCK: Allow me to point out that a first officer is more expendable than either a doctor or a captain.
KIRK: Officially, yes. But this mission is strictly unofficial. Nobody's to have any part in it, any responsibility for it, but myself. That's an order, Spock. You have the conn. Stand by till I contact you.

[Vanna's cell]
KIRK: Vanna, I've brought you a gift. There's a dangerous gas in the mines that affects the development of the Troglytes exposed to it for a period of time. This mask will prevent any further damage.
VANNA: Gas from zenite?
KIRK: Yes.
VANNA: It's hard to believe something which is neither seen nor felt can do so much harm.
KIRK: That's true. But an idea can't be seen or felt. That's what's kept the Troglytes in the mines all these centuries, a mistaken idea.
VANNA: Would all the Troglytes wear these masks?
KIRK: Yes. I'll see to it that the Federation engineers construct them.
VANNA: Suppose Plasus does not agree?
KIRK: Plasus is not the whole government.
VANNA: That is true, but the city council will not listen to Troglytes.
KIRK: As soon as the zenite is delivered to Merak Two, I'll come back. I'll request permission to mediate for the Troglytes. Vanna, you must trust me. I give you my word.
VANNA: Centuries ago, Stratos was built by leaders that gave their word that all inhabitants would live there. The Troglytes are still waiting.
KIRK: The zenite can be delivered in a few hours. You won't have long to wait now.
VANNA: Hours can be centuries, just as words can be lies.
KIRK: Vanna, you must trust me. If you don't, millions of people will die. A whole planet. This zenite is all that can save them. This filter mask is all that can save the Troglytes. Trust me. Please.
VANNA: Very well, Captain. I will trust you. The consignment lies deep in the mines in a place known only to Troglytes. I cannot direct you. I must take you there. You asked for my trust, Captain. Are you unwilling to give yours?
VANNA: It's the sentinel with my refreshment.
VANNA: Wait. We'll need a transport pass to leave the city.

[Mine]
VANNA: Midro.
MIDRO: Vanna.
VANNA: Anka.
ANKA: You have returned.
VANNA: And I've brought with me a hostage. Seize him!
KIRK: We had a bargain. Why did you break it?
VANNA: Did you really think I would trust you, Captain? I'm not such a fool.
KIRK: I trusted you.
VANNA: You thought you would trick me with your talk of your filter and your unseen gas. I don't believe you any more than Plasus does.
KIRK: Then you are a fool. These masks will free you, just as I said.
VANNA: Our weapons are our freedom. And you've just furnished me with two very valuable ones. Yourself and this.
KIRK: Holding me won't help you. My men'll still come for that zenite consignment.
VANNA: Without your communicator, you will be hard to locate.
KIRK: They'll still come.
VANNA: Perhaps. In the meantime, a taste of our existence, Captain. Dig as the Troglytes do. As the Troglytes do.
KIRK: Without that mask, I haven't
VANNA: With your bare hands, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental, stardate 5819.3. First Officer Spock reporting. Captain Kirk beamed down to Stratos to attempt to win the confidence of the rebel Troglytes. Unless he has made his escape from Stratos to the mines, his life is in danger from the High Advisor. The captain has not informed us of his progress. For our part, we must maintain silence. We can be of no help to him without jeopardizing his life.

[Mine]
VANNA: You dig well, Captain. The unseen gas doesn't seem to be harming you.
KIRK: It takes a while for its effects to be noticed.
VANNA: Nevertheless, you won't be needing this. Anka, deposit this on the transport platform so Plasus will know we have something more valuable to bargain with than our mortaes and thongs.
ANKA: You are clever, Vanna. Very clever.
VANNA: Searchers will be coming soon, Midro. Go to the other mines and tell the Troglytes to post watchers.
MIDRO: What of him?
VANNA: I will see that he doesn't escape.
MIDRO: If we kill him, there will be no need to see.
VANNA: A dead hostage is of no value, Midro.
MIDRO: Only the Troglytes will know.
VANNA: I brought him here and I will say what is to be done.
MIDRO: You are not the only Disrupter. I, too, can say.
VANNA: Can you do nothing but argue? The searchers will be here soon.
MIDRO: When Anka returns, we will all say.
KIRK: Is that what Disrupters are bargaining for, the right to kill everyone?
VANNA: Midro is a child.
KIRK: The masks can change that.
VANNA: Return to the digging, Captain.
KIRK: How long do you plan on keeping me here, providing Midro doesn't kill me, of course?
VANNA: Until we have help in the mines and our homes are in the clouds.
KIRK: That's quite a while. Longer than I expected.
VANNA: We're sealed in!
KIRK: Completely.
VANNA: But soon the atmosphere will go. We'll die.
KIRK: Die from something that can't be seen? You astound me, Vanna. Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK (voiceover): Spock here. We've been trying to make contact, Captain. Is anything wrong?
KIRK: Nothing. Are you locked in on me?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Locked in and ready to beam up consignment.

[Mine]
KIRK: Circumstances dictate a slight variation, Spock.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Standing by for instructions.

[Mine]
KIRK: Hold on these co-ordinates. Locate the High Advisor and beam him to these co-ordinates immediately. Without advance communication. Repeat, without advance communication. Have you got that, Spock?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Instructions clear. I shall carry them out immediately. Spock out.

[Mine]
VANNA: You would seal Plasus here also? For what purpose?
KIRK: I am preparing a demonstration on the effects of unbelieved gas.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Beam the High Advisor down without warning, did he say?
SPOCK: That's not an exact quote, Mister Scott. However, it does express the thought.
SCOTT: I'd like to see the Advisor's face.
SPOCK: You will have that opportunity.
SCOTT: The captain did say immediately, did he not?
SPOCK: Now that is an exact quote, Mister Scott, and I suggest you handle the transporter yourself. This could be very delicate as a problem in transporting for us and in diplomacy for the captain.
SCOTT: Aye.

[Council gallery]
PLASUS: Something's upsetting you, Droxine.
DROXINE: No, Father.
PLASUS: What is it? Tell me.
DROXINE: No, really. I'm not upset. I was just standing here looking into space and wondering whether or not he would return.
PLASUS: He will never return. I've seen to that.
DROXINE: But the zenite is so important to him. He must have it.
PLASUS: It will be delivered. If we have to kill every Troglyte, it will be delivered.
DROXINE: By that time, it may be too late. Perhaps he does have a method
PLASUS: He knows nothing except how to destroy our power and our society. I forbid you ever to speak of Captain Kirk, or even to think of him.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Transporter room to Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Spock here.
SCOTT (voiceover): I've locked into the co-ordinates of the Cloud City Council Gallery. Ready to transport the High Advisor.
SPOCK: You'll have to delay.
SCOTT (voiceover): What's wrong?
SPOCK: Picking up two life-forms in the gallery.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK (voiceover): They are inseparably close to one another. We cannot transport one

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Without the other.
SCOTT (voiceover): Did you say the word immediately was an exact quote of the captain's order?
SPOCK: Precisely, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Well, are we going to do anything about it?
SPOCK: Until the High Advisor is alone or can be isolated, the captain will have to wait. Unless you have an alternative?
SCOTT (voiceover): I'll give it further thought.

[Council gallery]
DROXINE: No, I wasn't thinking of Captain Kirk. It's the one with those exquisitely shaped ears. His name is Spock. He's the one I was thinking about. Did you know that he has the most incredibly sensitive hearing? Why, I almost believe that if I stood here and called out to him, he would hear my invitation to come and visit with us for a little while longer.
PLASUS: Oh, he's no better than his friend.
DROXINE: Shall we try?
PLASUS: What is it?
SENTINEL: The Disrupter Vanna has disappeared. Her guard was found half unconscious. He'd been attacked by Captain Kirk.
PLASUS: Where is Captain Kirk?
SENTINEL: He did not know, sir. He did not regain his senses until I came to his aid.
PLASUS: This is the kind of reason they use to persuade us.
DROXINE: They are desperate.
PLASUS: I will hear no more defense of them.
DROXINE: I'm sure Mister Spock would not behave so.
PLASUS: Leave here at once. Go to your music.
DROXINE: Father, are we so sure of our methods that we never question what we do?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Spock to transporter room.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here.
SPOCK: Lock in on Council Gallery co-ordinates.
SCOTT (voiceover): Locked in, sir.
SPOCK: Energize.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Energizing.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: How are you doing, Mister Scott?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Fine, Mister Spock. The High Advisor's materializing on the platform.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Beam him down to Captain Kirk immediately.
SCOTT (voiceover): Energizing, sir. He's on his way to the captain.
SPOCK: Good work, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): The Advisor looked mighty angry. I hope he doesn't give the captain too much trouble.
SPOCK: The captain will employ his usual diplomatic balm.

[Mine]
PLASUS: Abduction of a planet official is a serious crime. You will pay for this, I promise you.
KIRK: Not until you're convinced of the effects of the zenite gas, Mister Advisor.
PLASUS: What effects? I've been here nearly an hour of your Earth time. You and Vanna even longer. I see no changes in any of us!
KIRK: Perhaps you need closer exposure. Fill that container.
PLASUS: Are you suggesting that I dig zenite?
KIRK: I insist.
PLASUS: You will indeed pay for this.
KIRK: You too, Vanna. You too! Dig! Kirk here. What is it?

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Contact check, Captain. It has been over an hour since your last communication.

[Mine]
KIRK: Your orders are to stand by. Now, carry them out! Kirk out.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Standing by, Captain.

[Mine]
SPOCK (voiceover): However, let me remind you, we have only five hours left to

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: That is very unlike the captain.
MCCOY: Can the zenite be affecting him?

[Mine]
VANNA: I grow faint. The oxygen is going.
PLASUS: She's right. Kirk, transport us out of here.
KIRK: We'll leave when the gas has effect.
PLASUS: It will never take effect. Transport us out of here!
KIRK: Dig!
PLASUS: Imbecile! We'll die!
KIRK: I said dig!
PLASUS: I am High Advisor of all the planet. I will take no more orders!
KIRK: One more step and I'll kill you.
VANNA: The gas! Captain, you were right. It's taking effect! Captain, you were right!
PLASUS: Are you as brave with mortae as you are with a phaser?
KIRK: Both will kill.
VANNA: Enterprise! Enterprise, help! Enterprise!

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Enterprise, Spock here.
VANNA (voiceover): They'll kill each other. Help us.

[Mine]
VANNA: Help us! Enterprise!

[Transporter room]
VANNA (voiceover): Enterprise!
SPOCK: Captain, the zenite gas has affected you. Captain! The zenite gas!
KIRK: The zenite gas.
MCCOY: Look out, Jim!
KIRK: Well, it seems my little demonstration was quite a success.

[Council gallery]
DROXINE: I don't like filters, or even masks. I like the word protector much better, don't you?
SPOCK: It is less technical, therefore less accurate, but perhaps more generally descriptive of the function.
PLASUS: It appears you have what you came for after all.
VANNA: The captain will have his zenite, just as I agreed.
PLASUS: Agreed? There's no such word in the Troglyte vocabulary.
VANNA: The captain will have his zenite.
PLASUS: No thanks to any agreement by you. It had to be obtained by force.
VANNA: Because it is the only way we can obtain what is due us.
PLASUS: How about your education? Was that by force?
VANNA: It served your purpose at the time.
PLASUS: You could have had those filters for all the good it will do you.
KIRK: They will be very effective. sir. They've been severely tested, and the Troglytes will no longer suffer from retardation and emotional difficulties.
PLASUS: They will all be like her. ungrateful, vindictive.
VANNA: Yes. Our demands have just begun. Here is the zenite, Captain, just as I promised.
KIRK: Thank you, Vanna.
DROXINE: Stratos is so pleasant and so beautiful. I think I'm afraid to leave it.
SPOCK: There is great beauty in the knowledge that lies below, and only one way to really experience it.
DROXINE: I shall go to the mines. I no longer wish to be limited to the clouds. Is your planet like this one?
SPOCK: No. No, Vulcan is quite different.
DROXINE: Someday I should like to visit it.
KIRK: Perhaps some form of mediation can be helpful in your difficulties. The Federation Bureau of Industrialisation may be of aid to you.
PLASUS: I will tolerate absolutely no interference! You will not set foot here as long as I rule!
KIRK: Believe me, sir, I have neither the time nor the desire to return here. Only answering your charges against me will force me back.
PLASUS: And I shall press them. You are guilty of abduction, Captain!
KIRK: You're guilty of attacking a starship commander and plotting against his life.
VANNA: Captain, perhaps both incidents are best forgotten.
KIRK: Yes, Vanna. They never happened. Mister Advisor? Mister Spock, let's get that zenite delivered. I believe we only have three hours left.
SPOCK: Two hours, fifty-nine minutes to be exact, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott beam us up.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: It is definitely the stolen space cruiser, Captain, the Aurora. I read six aboard.
KIRK: Hailing frequencies. Aurora, this is the USS Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk commanding. Acknowledge. Aurora, this is the Enterprise. Do you read me?
PALMER: They are receiving us, Captain.
SPOCK: I read no evidence of malfunction.
KIRK: Repeat. Federation orders to detain you for
SULU: They're veering off, sir.
KIRK: Change course. Pursue and overtake.
CHEKOV: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Stand by tractor beams.
SULU: Standing by, sir.
CHEKOV: If it continues on course, it will enter Romulan space.
KIRK: Engage.
SULU: Tractor beam engaged.
KIRK: Bring them in.
SULU: They've not cut power, sir. They're struggling to escape.
SPOCK: Their engines are seriously overheating, Captain.
KIRK: Aurora, cut power. You are overtaxing your ship.
SPOCK: Power approaching critical. They cannot continue.
KIRK: Emergency power to tractor beams. Bridge to Transporter room. Scotty, are you ready to transport?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Power beyond critical. Explosion is imminent.
KIRK: Are we within transportation range?
CHEKOV: Not yet, sir.
KIRK: Aurora personnel, stand by to be transported aboard. Energize.
KIRK: Are they aboard? Scotty, are they aboard?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. They are, and a nice lot too.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5832.3. The son of the Catullan ambassador is one of six we have beamed aboard from the stolen cruiser Aurora. We have been ordered to handle him with extreme delicacy, because the treaty negotiations now in progress between the Federation and Catualla are in a crucial phase.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, take them to the briefing room.
IRINA (voiceover): We are not in the mood, Herbert.
CHEKOV: Irina?
MAN (voiceover): Tell Herbert it's no go.
ALL (voiceover): No go. No go.
KIRK: What's going on?
SCOTT (voiceover): They refuse, sir.
KIRK: Why?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: I don't know. They're sitting on the floor, the lot of them. You can hear for yourself. Shall I send for security?

[Bridge]
KIRK: No, I'll be right down. Mister Spock.
ALL (voiceover): No go, no go, no go.

[Transporter room]
ALL: No go, no go, no go.
KIRK: Which one of you is Tongo Rad?
KIRK: You can thank your father's influence for the fact you're not under arrest. In addition to piracy, you've left yourself open to charges of violating flight regulations, entering hostile space and endangering the lives of others as well as your own.
RAD: I'm bleeding.
KIRK: In addition you've caused an interstellar incident which may have destroyed everything that's been negotiated between your planet and the Federation.
RAD: You've got a hard lip, Herbert.
KIRK: If you have an explanation, I am prepared to hear it.
KIRK: Mister Spock, take them to Sickbay for a medical check. There may have been radiation from the explosion.
SPOCK: Captain, with your permission
KIRK: By all means.
SPOCK: One.
SEVRIN: We are One.
SPOCK: One is the beginning.
ADAM: Are you One, Herbert?
SPOCK: I am not Herbert.
ADAM: He is not Herbert. We reach.
SPOCK: If you will state your purpose and your objectives, perhaps we can arrive at a mutual understanding.
SEVRIN: If you understand One, you know our purpose.
SPOCK: I would prefer that you state it.
SEVRIN: We turn our backs on confusion and seek the beginning.
SPOCK: What is your destination?
SEVRIN: The planet Eden.
KIRK: That planet it is a myth.
SEVRIN: And we protest against being harassed, pursued, attacked, seized and transported here against our wishes.
ADAM: Right, brother.
SEVRIN: We do not recognize Federation regulations nor the existence of hostilities. We recognize no authority save that within ourselves.
KIRK: Well, whether you recognize authority or not, I am it on this ship. I am under orders to transport you back to Starbase peaceably. From there you'll be ferried to your various planets. Because of my orders, you are not prisoners, but my guests. I expect you to behave as such.
ADAM: Oh, Herbert, you are stiff!
KIRK: Mister Spock, you seem to understand these people. You will deal with them.
SEVRIN: We respectfully request that you take us to Eden.
KIRK: And after they are finished in Sickbay, see to it that they're escorted back to their proper quarters and given whatever care they need.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
SEVRIN: We respectfully request that you take us to Eden.
KIRK: I have orders to the contrary. This is not a passenger ship.
ADAM: Herbert, Herbert, Herbert.
ALL: Herbert, Herbert, Herbert. Herbert, Herbert, Herbert.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Palmer, notify Starbase we have the six aboard who stole the space cruiser Aurora. Regrettably, the space cruiser itself was destroyed.
PALMER: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Personal note to the Catullan ambassador. His son is safe.
CHEKOV: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, what is it?
CHEKOV: Sir, I believe I know one of them. At least, I think I recognize her voice. Her name is Irina Galliulin. We were in Starfleet Academy together.
KIRK: One of those was in the Academy?
CHEKOV: Yes, sir. She dropped out. She
KIRK: Do you wish to see her? Permission to leave your post.
CHEKOV: Thank you, sir.
KIRK: Are they in the Sickbay?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, do they really believe that Eden exists?
SPOCK: Many myths are based on truth, Captain, and they are not unintelligent. Their leader, Doctor Sevrin, is a man
KIRK: Doctor Sevrin is their leader?
SPOCK: Yes. A brilliant research engineer in the fields of acoustics, communications and electronics on Tiburon. He was dismissed from his post when he started this movement. Tong Rad inherits his father's extraordinary abilities in the field of space studies.
KIRK: Well. But they've rejected all that and all that this technology provides. And they seek the primitive.
SPOCK: There are many who are uncomfortable with what we have created. It is almost a biological rebellion. A profound revulsion against the planned communities, the programming, the sterilized, artfully balanced atmospheres. They hunger for an Eden where spring comes.
KIRK: All do. The cave is deep in our memory.
SPOCK: Yes, that is true, Captain.
KIRK: But we don't steal space cruisers and act like irresponsible children.
KIRK: What makes you so sympathetic toward them?
SPOCK: It is not sympathy so much as curiosity, Captain. A wish to understand. They regard themselves as aliens in their own worlds, a condition with which I am somewhat familiar.
KIRK: Spock. What does Herbert mean?
SPOCK: It is somewhat uncomplimentary, Captain. Herbert was a minor official notorious for his rigid and limited patterns of thought.
KIRK: Well, I shall try to be less rigid in my thinking.

[Sickbay]
ADAM: Looking for the good land, Going astray. Don't cry, don't cry. Oh, I can't have honey, And I can't have cream. Gonna live, not die. Gonna live, not die. Stand in the middle of it all one day. I'll look at it shining all around me and say, I'm here, I'm here, In the good land. In the new land. I'm here.
CHEKOV: Excuse me. Is Irina Galliulin with you?
ADAM: She's getting her physical. Gonna crack my knuckles and jump for joy. I got a clean bill of health from Doctor McCoy. You know Irina?
RAD: Say, tell me, why do you wear all those clothes? How do you breathe?
CHAPEL: You're next.
CHEKOV: Irina.
IRINA: Pavel Andreievich. I had thought we might encounter each other.
CHEKOV: You knew I was on the Enterprise?
IRINA: I had heard.
CHEKOV: Irina, why? Come.

[Corridor]
CHEKOV: How could you do this to yourself? You were a scientist. And now, look at you.
IRINA: Look at yourself, Pavel.
CHEKOV: Why did you do it?
IRINA: Why did you?
CHEKOV: I am proud of what I am. I believe in what I do. Can you say that?
IRINA: Yes. Oh, we should not tear at each other so, Pavel. We should meet again in joy. Today when I first knew it was your ship that followed us, I thought of you and wondered what I would find. And I remembered so much. In spite of that uniform, I still see the same Pavel I used to know.

[Rec Room]
IRINA: Are you happy in what you do?
CHEKOV: Yes.
IRINA: Then I accept what you do.
CHEKOV: You even talk like them. Why did you go away?
IRINA: It was you who went.
CHEKOV: I came back to look for you. I looked. Where did you go?
IRINA: I stayed in the city, with friends.
CHEKOV: You never felt as I did. Never.
IRINA: I did.
CHEKOV: You don't have it in you to feel so much. Even when we were close, you weren't with me. You were off thinking of something else. Why did you stay away?
IRINA: Because you disapproved of me, Just as you do now. Oh, Pavel, you have always been like this. So correct. And inside, the struggle not to be. Give in to yourself. You will be happier. You'll see.
CHEKOV: Go to your friends.

[Corridor]
ALL: Free Doctor Sevrin! Free Doctor Sevrin! We want to see him right now!
ADAM: We want to see him now!

[Sickbay]
ALL: Herbert! Herbert! Herbert! Herbert!
CHAPEL: I thought all the animals were kept in cages.
KIRK: What's going on, Bones?
MCCOY: Trouble. Your friend here didn't want a checkup. Turns out there's a reason.
SEVRIN: I refuse to accept your findings.
MCCOY: You don't have the choice.
SEVRIN: They're the product of prejudice, not science.
MCCOY: I don't know what this man was planning on doing on a primitive planet, but assuming one did exist, I can tell you what would have happened had he settled there.
SEVRIN: Untrue!
MCCOY: There wouldn't have been enough primitives left to bury their dead.
SEVRIN: Fantasy. Fantasy.
MCCOY: I wish it were. There's a nasty little bug evolved in the last few years, Jim. Our aseptic, sterilized civilisations produced it. Synthococcus novae. It's deadly. We can immunize against it, but haven't learned to lick all the problems yet.
KIRK: Does he have it? What about the others?
MCCOY: All the others are clear. He doesn't have it. He's a carrier. Remember your ancient history? Typhoid Mary? He's immune, as she was, but he carries the disease and spreads it to others.
KIRK: Is the crew in danger?
MCCOY: I don't know. They all had full spectrum immunizations before boarding. Now my guess is that his friends have had their shots too. But a regular program of shots is necessary. I'll have to check everyone on the ship. There could be some skips. In the meantime, he should be placed in total isolation.
SEVRIN: This is outrageous. You're not isolating me, you're imprisoning me. You invent a crime, find me guilty and sentence me!
MCCOY: Would you like to run the test, Doctor? You knew you were a carrier before you came aboard, didn't you?
SEVRIN: No!
MCCOY: Then why did you fight the examination?
SEVRIN: It was an infringement on my rights.
KIRK: Put him in isolation.
MCCOY: Be ready for the objections, Jim. They are a vocal lot.
KIRK: Yes, I'm ready. Kirk to Security. I want a guard maintained on Doctor Sevrin until further notice. Bones, how long before we know whether the crew has been endangered by this infection?
MCCOY: It'll show in twenty four hours. It's a virulent strain.

[Corridor]
WOMAN: You don't belong with them! You know what we want. You want it too. Come, join us.
SULU: How do you know what I want?
WOMAN: You're young. Think young, brother!
SULU: You make it tempting.
KIRK: Mister Sulu. Mister Sulu, explain.
SULU: No explanation, sir.
KIRK: Doctor Sevrin will be released when we think he is medically safe.
ADAM: Stiff man putting my mind in jail. And the judge bang the gavel and say no bail. Gonna lick his hand and wag my tail.
ALL: Herbert! Herbert!

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty, what is it?
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, I just had to give one of those barefooted what do you call 'ems the boot out of here. She came in bold as brass, tried to incite my crew to disaffect.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty. Mister Spock, I don't seem to be able to communicate with these people. Do you think you can persuade them to behave?
SPOCK: I shall make an attempt, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. If it weren't for that ambassador's son, they'd all be in the brig.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5832.5. The arrogance of Doctor Sevrin and his followers is creating an intolerable situation aboard the Enterprise. If it continues, I'll be forced to use controls which might not agree with Starfleet's suggestion that they be handled with extreme tolerance.

[Brig]
SEVRIN: I have no influence over what they do.
SPOCK: They respect you. They will listen to your reasoning. For their sake, you must stop them. Doctor Sevrin, I'm in a position to help you and your group. I can use the resources of the Enterprise to determine whether or not Eden actually exists and to plot its exact location. I can present a case to Federation to allow you and your group to colonize that planet. Neither you nor your people are at present charged with a crime. However, incitement to disaffection is criminal. The Federation will never allow the colonization of a planet by criminals. If they persist, they will be so charged and forever barred from Eden.
SEVRIN: As I have been barred.
SPOCK: Then you knew you were a carrier.
SEVRIN: Of course I knew. You've researched my life. You've read the orders restricting me to travel only in areas of advanced technology because of what my body carries.
SPOCK: What I fail to understand is why you disobey those orders.
SEVRIN: Because this is poison to me. This stuff you breathe, this stuff you live in, the shields of artificial atmosphere that we have layered about every planet. The programs in those computers that run your ship and your lives for you, they bred what my body carries. That's what your science have done to me. You've infected me. Only the primitives can cleanse me. I cannot purge myself until I am among them. Only their way of living is right. I must go to them.
SPOCK: Your very presence will destroy the people you seek. Surely you know that.
SEVRIN: I shall go to them and be One with them. And together we shall build a world such as this galaxy has never seen. A world. A life. A life. So now you're going to try to persuade me that your technologies will find a cure for me, and then I'll be free to go.
SPOCK: Yes, Doctor.
SEVRIN: And for that reason I should persuade my friends to behave so that they too will be allowed.
SPOCK: Yes, Doctor.
SEVRIN: All right, you send them in. I'll talk to them.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Doctor Sevrin is insane. I've not consulted Doctor McCoy, but I have no doubt of it.
KIRK: I'll have Bones check him out. Spock, I'm sorry. You had great respect for him. But it does explain some of what they've done.
SPOCK: His condition does not affect my interest in the movement. There is no insanity in what they seek. I made a promise which I should like to keep. With your permission, I must locate Eden. I shall work in my quarters. May I have the assistance of Mister Chekov in auxiliary control?
KIRK: Certainly. Mister Chekov, assist Mister Spock. Bridge to Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here.
KIRK: Bones.
MCCOY (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
KIRK: I'd like to talk to you.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5832.6. I have asked Doctor McCoy to check Starfleet medical records to verify Mister Spock's suspicion that Doctor Sevrin is insane. In spite of Doctor Sevrin's antipathy to us, he has promised Mister Spock that he will order his diskiples to conform to our rules and regulations.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Come in.
ADAM: Am I crossing you?
SPOCK: No.
ADAM: I was just thinking, I Hey, brother, do you play? Is it Vulcan? Can I try it?
ADAM: Oh ho, that's now. That's real now. I reach that, brother. I really do. Give.
ADAM: Hey, how about a session, you and us? It would sound. That's what I came for. I wanted to ask, you know, great white captain upstairs, but he don't reach us. But would he shake on a session? I mean, we want to co-operate, like you ask, so I'm asking.
SPOCK: If I understand you correctly, I believe the answer might be yes.
ADAM: I'll spread the word.

[Auxiliary control]
IRINA: Am I allowed in?
CHEKOV: Yes.
IRINA: I have been looking for you, Pavel. What room is this?
CHEKOV: Auxiliary control.
IRINA: What's it for?
CHEKOV: Should the main control room breakdown or suffer damage, we can navigate the ship from here. What do you want?
IRINA: To apologize. I should not have teased you. It was cruel.
CHEKOV: It does not matter.
IRINA: Oh, but it does. It is against everything I believe in.
CHEKOV: Let us not diskuss your beliefs.
IRINA: And I do not like having you angry with me, or disapproving.
CHEKOV: Then why do you do such things?
IRINA: What are you working on?
CHEKOV: I am assisting Mister Spock in locating your Eden.
IRINA: Oh, now you are teasing me.
CHEKOV: I am not. These tapes contain star charts, and we project the orbits of the various planets here. By mathematical process, we determine whether or not they are affected by other bodies not yet charted.
IRINA: Do you know all these things?
CHEKOV: What I do not know I find out from the computer banks. If, if I knew nothing at all, I could navigate the ship simply by studying what is stored in there. They contain the sum of all human knowledge. They solve our problems of navigation. Of control. Of life support.
IRINA: They tell you what to do, and you do what they tell you.
CHEKOV: No. We use our own judgment also.
IRINA: I could never obey a computer.
CHEKOV: You could never listen to anyone. You always had to be different.
IRINA: Not different. What I wanted to be. There is nothing wrong in doing what you want.
SPOCK (voiceover): I am not receiving, Mister Chekov. Spock to Chekov. Repeat, I am not receiving.
CHEKOV: I am sorry, Mister Spock. I was momentarily delayed.

[Guest quarters]
RAD: His name is Sulu, specialist in weapons and navigation. His hobby is botany.
ADAM: Can?
RAD: Can. I reach botany. It's my favorite of studies. What's yours?
ADAM: Vulcan. Spock is practically One now.
IRINA: Everything can be handled from auxiliary control. The computers contain all the information we need. We can do it.
ADAM: It starts to chime.
RAD: When will it?
ADAM: Soon. Like he said now, we should all go out and swing as many as possible over.
RAD: Can you suggest any special ways to swing them?
ADAM: Just be friendly. You know how to be friendly. Then they'll be friendly.

[Rec room]
ADAM: I'm talkin ''bout you, I'm talkin ''bout me. Long time back when the galaxy was new. Man found out what he had to do. Found he had to eat and he found he had to drink. And a long time later he found he had to think. Uh huh. Yes, think. I'm standing here wondering.
ALL: What?
ADAM: If a man tells another man out of my way. He piles up trouble for himself all day. But all kinds of trouble come to an end. When a man tells another man be my friend, uh huh. My friend. Well, what's it going to be?
GIRL: There's a mile wide emptiness between you and me.
ADAM: Can't reach across it, hardly even see.
GIRL: Someone ought to take a step one way or other.
ADAM: Let's say goodbye, or let's say brother. Brother. Brother. Hey, out there. Hey, out there. Hey, out there. Hey, out there. I see you. I see you. I see you. I see you. Let's get together and have some fun. I don't know how to do it but it's got to be done.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: At least we know where they are and what they're doing. I don't know why a young mind has to be an undiskiplined one. They're troublemakers.
KIRK: I used to get into a little trouble when I was that age, Scotty. Didn't you?
SULU: Captain, I get no response from controls. We're going off course.
SCOTT: It's shorted. No, it's channeled over somewhere. To auxiliary control.
KIRK: Bridge to auxiliary control. Bridge to auxiliary control.
SULU: Captain, it seems as though someone else is running the ship.
SEVRIN (voiceover): That's right, someone else is running this ship.

[Auxiliary control]
SEVRIN: I am. All functions, life support as well. You cannot interfere, as I have frozen the doors to the control room.

[Bridge]
SEVRIN (voiceover): I do not intend to hand over the helm to you until and unless we reach Eden.

[Auxiliary control]
SEVRIN: If I am in any way prevented from reaching that destination, I shall destroy this ship and all aboard.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Can he do it?
SPOCK: He has the capability, Captain.

[Auxiliary control]
SCOTT (voiceover): He's got everything channeled over.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Start a trace-back of all circuits.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK (voiceover): See if you can bypass him.
SEVRIN: Do that, and I shall retaliate.

[Bridge]
SEVRIN (voiceover): I shall not warn you again.
SULU: Captain, we're now leaving the Neutral Zone. Bearing into Romulan space!
KIRK: Any patrols?
SPOCK: Negative.
KIRK: There will be soon. Doctor Sevrin. You are violating Romulan space and endangering the peace of the galaxy.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK (voiceover): The Romulans will view this as a military intrusion and attack. Bring the ship about now. If you bring her about

[Bridge]
KIRK: And return to Starbase, no charges will be leveled.

[Auxiliary control]
ADAM: Like you said, Brother Sevrin.

[Bridge]
KIRK: If you do not, you will never reach Eden. You and this ship will be destroyed.
ADAM (voiceover): He's got jelly in the belly. Real scared.
KIRK: Adam.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK (voiceover): Rad.

[Bridge]
KIRK: You are being led by a man who is insane.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK (voiceover): You are being used by him.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock, you tell them.
SPOCK: Adam, there is a file on Doctor Sevrin in our computer banks. In it you'll find a report attesting to the fact

[Auxiliary control]
SPOCK: That he is a carrier of a bacillus strain known as Synthococcus novae.
ADAM: Ain't that just awful.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: You'll also find a report from the same hospital, giving a full psychological profile on him and projecting these actions of his.

[Auxiliary control]
ADAM: Yay, brother.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Adam. You know I reach you. I believe in what you seek. But there is a tragic difference between what you want and what he wants.

[Auxiliary control]
ADAM: You're making me cry.
RAD: There it is. They've established Eden, Brother Sevrin.
IRINA: Pavel said they would. Our original course must have been somewhat in error.
SEVRIN: When will we get there?
RAD: At this speed, three hours.
SEVRIN: They'll try to persuade us to change course presently and then they'll attack.
RAD: How do you plan to stop them? By cutting off their life support?
SEVRIN: I have another weapon. Take control, Brother Rad.
ADAM: What are you doing?
SEVRIN: Making an adjustment on their circuits.
ADAM: Headin' out to Eden. Yea, brother. Headin' out to Eden. No more trouble in my body or my mind. Gonna live like a king on whatever I find, Eat all the fruit and throw away the rind. Yea, brother. Yea.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: We are within sensor range of Eden and continuing to approach.
KIRK: Whatever they're going to do, they're going to do now. We have no choice. Mister Spock, Mister Scott.

[Auxiliary control]
ADAM: When will you use that?
SEVRIN: At the proper time. Let me know when we're in orbit.
RAD: Approaching right on the dot, just as they plotted it, Brother Sevrin.
IRINA: What will that do to them? What is it?
SEVRIN: Well, I'm using sound against them, beyond the ultrasonic. It will stun them and allow us time to leave. We'll go in one of their shuttlecraft.
IRINA: Sound pitched that high doesn't stun, it destroys. I remember when we read in the text that it
SEVRIN: I've gone beyond those texts, Irina. It's correct for you to be concerned, but be assured also.
RAD: We are in orbit over Eden, Brother Sevrin. It does destroy.
SEVRIN: We cannot allow them to come after us. It will not reach us in here. I can control it all. I have adjusted it so that it will suspend its effects after a few moments and allow us time to escape. Then, after we've gone, it will automatically reactivate. Rejoice, brethren. Soon we shall step together into Eden.

[Corridor]
KIRK: Spock! It's all right, Spock. It stopped.
SPOCK: No, Captain, it hasn't stopped. It has gone beyond
SPOCK: Captain, they're using

[Auxiliary control]
ADAM: Steppin' into Eden. Yea, brother. Steppin' into Eden. Yea, brother. No more trouble in my body or my mind. Gonna live like a king on whatever find. Eat all the fruit and throw away the rind. Yea, brother.
SEVRIN: Now we may leave.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, go. I. You must destroy the
KIRK: What is it?
SPOCK: Ultrasonics. The panel.

[Auxiliary control]
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering. Bridge? Hangar deck? Kirk to Transporter Room. Kirk to Bridge. Do you read me? Come in.
SULU (voiceover): Sulu here, Captain. What happened to us? I heard a whistle, and then
KIRK: Never mind. Do we have control of the ship?
CHEKOV (voiceover): No, sir. Control is in auxiliary.
KIRK: Can we break out of orbit if we have to?
SULU: I think so, sir.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Hangar Deck to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
CREWMAN: Sir, one of the shuttlecrafts has been taken. We were all knocked out.
KIRK: Stand by. Do you read any Romulans?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain. However I am picking up the shuttlecraft.
KIRK: Where?
SPOCK: It has landed. Except for those aboard the craft, I read no life at all, either humanoid nor animal.
KIRK: Auxiliary control to Doctor McCoy. Bones, are you all right?
MCCOY (voiceover): Yes, Jim.
KIRK: Stand by, transporter room. Full medical gear.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk. Do you wish to open communication, sir?
KIRK: No. No, they tried to destroy us. Let them think they succeeded. I want the co-ordinates zeroed in so that when we beam down, we won't be visible to them. Scotty, you have the conn. If any Romulans appear, try to make them understand. I do not want to provoke combat. Mister Spock. Mister Chekov, join us in the transporter room.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: The legends were true, Captain. Fantastically beautiful planet.
CHEKOV: Eden.
KIRK: Is this what they believed they'd find? Then I can understand. Spread out. Approach with caution. Doctor Sevrin.
KIRK: What is it?
CHEKOV: The flower, sir. I touched it. It's like fire.
MCCOY: It's burned. All this plant life is full of acid. Even the grass, Jim.
KIRK: Will our clothing protect us?
MCCOY: It should for a while.
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Bones?
MCCOY: Poison. The fruit is deadly.
SPOCK: His name was Adam.
KIRK: There's the shuttlecraft.

[By the Galileo II]
KIRK: Here, we'll help you.
KIRK: Doctor Sevrin. Bones!
MCCOY: He should be beamed aboard, Jim. He needs more than I can do for him here.
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise here.
SPOCK: Stand by to beam aboard injured parties. Medical team to the transporter room.
SEVRIN: No, we're not leaving.
KIRK: We can help you aboard the ship.
SEVRIN: We're not leaving Eden, none of us.
KIRK: Be sensible, Doctor.
SEVRIN: We're not leaving.
MCCOY: Come back here, you fool!
KIRK: Sevrin, don't! You'll kill yourself!
MCCOY: Don't bite into that!
KIRK: Stop!
IRINA: It was so beautiful.

[Bridge]
PALMER: I have Starbase now, Captain.
KIRK: Alert them that we have the four and we're ready to beam them down. And mark the incident closed.
PALMER: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Bridge to Transporter. Scotty, are they there?
SCOTT (voiceover): Three of them, sir. Expecting a fourth any minute.
KIRK: Stand by. Mister Chekov, do you wish to attend?
CHEKOV: Captain, I wish first to apologize for my conduct during this time. I did not maintain myself under proper diskipline. I endangered the ship and its personnel by my conduct. I respectfully submit myself for diskiplinary action.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Chekov. You did what you had to do. As did we all. Even your friends. You may go.
CHEKOV: Thank you, sir.
CHEKOV: I was coming to say goodbye.
IRINA: And I was coming to say goodbye to you. Be incorrect, occasionally.
CHEKOV: And you be correct.
IRINA: Occasionally.
SPOCK: Miss Galliulin. It is my sincere wish that you do not give up your search for Eden. I have no doubt but that you will find it, or make it yourselves.
IRINA: Thank you.
KIRK: We reach, Mister Spock.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5843.7. The Enterprise is in the grip of a raging epidemic. Three crewmen have died and twenty three others have been struck down by Rigelian fever. In order to combat the illness, Doctor McCoy needs large quantities of ryetalyn, which is the only known antidote for the fever. Our sensors have picked up sufficient quantities of pure ryetalyn on a small planet in the Omega system. We are beaming down to secure this urgently needed material.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Report.
MCCOY: Jim, there's a large deposit bearing two seven three, four kilometers away. I've got four hours to process that stuff, otherwise the epidemic will be irreversible. Everybody on board the Enterprise will
SPOCK: Strange. Readings indicate a life form in the vicinity, apparently human. Yet ship's sensors indicated this planet was uninhabited.
KIRK: Let's get that ryetalyn.
KIRK: Inoperative.
FLINT: Do not kill.
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk
FLINT: I know who you are. I have monitored your ship since it entered this system.
KIRK: Then if you know who we are, you know why we're here, Mister?
FLINT: Flint. You will leave my planet.
SPOCK: Did you say your planet, sir?
FLINT: My retreat from the unpleasantness of life on Earth, and the company of people.
KIRK: Mister Flint, I have a sick crew up there. We can't possibly reach another planet in time. You can't refuse us the ryetalyn.
FLINT: You're trespassing, Captain.
KIRK: We're in need! We'll pay for it, work for it, trade for it.
FLINT: You have nothing I want.
KIRK: But you have the ryetalyn that we need! If necessary, we'll take it.
FLINT: If you do not leave voluntarily, I have the power to force you to leave or kill you where you stand.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott, lock phasers onto our co-ordinates.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain, all phasers locked on.
KIRK: Mister Flint, if anything happens to us, four deaths and then my crew comes down and takes that ryetalyn.
FLINT: An interesting test of power. Your enormous forces against mine. Who would win?
SPOCK: Mister Flint, unless you are certain, I would suggest you refrain from a most useless experiment.
KIRK: We need only a few hours.
MCCOY: Have you ever seen a victim of Rigelian fever? They die in one day. The effects are like bubonic plague.
FLINT: Constantinople, summer 1334. It marched through the streets, the sewers. It left the city by ox cart, by sea, to kill half of Europe. The rats, rustling and squealing in the night as they, too, died. The rats.
SPOCK: Are you a student of history, sir?
FLINT: I am. The Enterprise, a plague ship. You have two hours, at the end of which time you will leave.
KIRK: With all due gratitude.
FLINT: M4 will gather the ryetalyn which you need. Permit me to offer you more comfortable surroundings.

[Living room]
FLINT: Come in, gentlemen. Our ship's sensors did not reveal your presence here, Mister Flint.
FLINT: My planet is surrounded by screens which create the impression of lifelessness. A protection against the curious, the uninvited.
SPOCK: Then you live here alone.
FLINT: Except for M4, which serves as butler, housekeeper, gardener and guardian.
KIRK: A most impressive home, Mister Flint.
MCCOY: Yes, a Shakespeare first folio. A Gutenberg Bible.

[Sitting room]
MCCOY (voiceover): The Creation lithographs by Taranullus of Centauri Seven. That's one of the rarest book collections in the galaxy, spanning centuries.
FLINT (screen): Be comfortable, gentlemen. Help yourselves to brandy.

[Living room]
MCCOY: Do we trust him?
SPOCK: It would seem logical to do so for the moment.
MCCOY: Well, I'll need two hours to process that ryetalyn into antitoxin.
KIRK: If that ryetalyn isn't here in one hour, we'll go prospecting, right over Mister Flint if necessary.
SPOCK: This is the most splendid private collection of art I've ever seen, and the most unique. The majority are the works of Leonardo da Vinci, Renaissance period, some of the works of Reginald Pollack, 20th century, and even a sten from Marcus Two.

[Sitting room]
RAYNA: At last I have seen other humans.
FLINT: Other men.
RAYNA: One is not human.
FLINT: The Vulcan.
RAYNA: Oh, so that is a Vulcan. I would like to diskuss sub-dimensional physics with him. You've taught me all you know in the area and you say Vulcans know more.
FLINT: Even he is not your intellectual equal, nor mine.
RAYNA: Let me meet them.
FLINT: They are selfish, brutal, a part of the human community which I rejected and from which I've shielded you.
RAYNA: Soon they will be gone. Let me meet them.
FLINT: Rayna. Have you been lonely?
RAYNA: What is loneliness?
FLINT: It is thirst. It is a flower dying in the desert.
RAYNA: Flint, don't take this opportunity away from me. It's so exciting.
FLINT: Exciting? You have never made a demand of me before.
RAYNA: I'm sorry.
FLINT: Do not be sorry. It might be interesting.

[Living room]
MCCOY: Saurian brandy, one hundred years old. Jim?
KIRK: Please.
MCCOY: Mister Spock, I know you won't have one. Heaven forbid those mathematically perfect brain waves be corrupted by this all too human vice.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor. I will have a brandy.
MCCOY: Do you think the two of us can handle a drunk Vulcan? Once alcohol hits that green blood
SPOCK: If I appear distracted, it is because of what I have seen. I am close to experiencing an unaccustomed emotion.
MCCOY: I'll drink to that. What emotion?
SPOCK: Envy. None of these da Vinci paintings has ever been catalogd or reproduced. They are unknown works, all apparently authentic to the last brush stroke and use of materials. As undiskovered da Vinci's, they would be priceless.
KIRK: Would be? You mean you think they're fakes?
SPOCK: Most strange. A man of Flint's obvious wealth and impeccable taste scarcely needs to hang fakes. Yet my tricorder analysis indicates that the canvas and pigments used are of contemporary origin.
KIRK: Well, this could be what it seems to be, or it could be a cover, a setup, or even an illusion.
MCCOY: Well, that could explain the paintings. Similar to the real thing.
KIRK: Spock, at your earliest opportunity, take a full tricorder reading of our host. See if he's human. Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott?
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Scott, run a full computer check on Mister Flint and on this planet, Holberg Nine One Seven G. Stand by with your results. I'll contact.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Kirk out. Let's enjoy this brandy. It tastes real.
KIRK: Easy. Bones?
MCCOY: Ryetalyn, ready to be processed into antitoxin.
KIRK: Beam up to the ship and start processing.
FLINT: That will not be necessary, Captain. M4 can prepare the ryetalyn for inoculation more quickly in my laboratory than you could aboard your ship.
MCCOY: I would like to supervise that, of course.
FLINT: And when you are satisfied as to procedures, I hope you will do me the honor of being my guests at dinner.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Flint. I don't think we have the time.
FLINT: I regret my earlier inhospitality. Let me make amends.
FLINT: Gentlemen, may I present Rayna.
KIRK: I thought you lived alone.
FLINT: I meant there are no others besides my family. Doctor McCoy. Mister Spock.
RAYNA: Mister Spock, I do hope we can find a moment to diskuss field density and its relationship to gravity phenomena.
SPOCK: Indeed. I would appreciate such a talk. It is an interest of mine.
FLINT: Captain Kirk.
RAYNA: Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Rayna.
FLINT: Her parents were killed in an accident while in my employ. Before dying, they placed their infant, Rayna Kapec, in my custody. I have raised and educated her.
MCCOY: With most impressive results, sir. What else interests you besides gravity phenomena, Rayna?
RAYNA: Everything. Less than that is betrayal of the intellect.
MCCOY: The totality of the universe? All knowledge?
FLINT: Rayna possesses the equivalent of seventeen university degrees in the sciences and arts. She is aware that the intellect is not all. But its cultivation must come first or the individual makes errors, wastes time in unprofitable pursuits.
MCCOY: At her age, I rather enjoyed errors with no noticeable damage, but I must admit you're the farthest thing from a bookworm I've ever seen.
RAYNA: Flint is my teacher. You are the only other men I've ever seen.
MCCOY: The misfortune of men everywhere, and our privilege.
FLINT: If you would accompany my robot to the laboratory, Doctor, you can rest assured that the ryetalyn is being processed.
MCCOY: Thank you, sir.
FLINT: Your pleasure, gentlemen. Chess, billiards, conversation?
KIRK: Why not all three?
KIRK: Did you teach her that?
FLINT: We play often.
RAYNA: May I show you, Captain?
KIRK: You said something about savagery, Mister Flint. When was the last time you visited Earth?
FLINT: You would tell me that it is no longer cruel. But it is, Captain. Look at your starship, bristling with weapons. Its mission to colonize, exploit, destroy, if necessary, to advance Federation causes.
KIRK: Thank you. Our missions are peaceful, our weapons defensive. If we were barbarians, we would not have asked for ryetalyn. Indeed, your greeting, not ours, lacked a certain benevolence.
FLINT: The result of pressures which are not your concern.
KIRK: Yes, well, those pressures are everywhere in everyone, urging him to what you call savagery. The private hells, the inner needs and mysteries, the beast of instinct. As human beings, that is the way it is. To be human is to be complex. You can't avoid a little ugliness from within and from without.
FLINT: Why don't you play the waltz, Mister Spock? To be human is also to seek pleasure, to laugh, to dance. Rayna is a most accomplished dancer.
KIRK: May I have the pleasure?
KIRK: Is something wrong?
MCCOY: Yes, there's something wrong. The ryetalyn is no good. It contains irillium, nearly one part per thousand.
SPOCK: Irillium will render the antitoxin inert and useless.
FLINT: Most unfortunate that it was not detected. I shall go with M4 to gather more ryetalyn and screen it myself. You're welcome to join me, Doctor.
MCCOY: Thank you.
KIRK: Time factor, Bones? Epidemic?
MCCOY: Nearly two and a half hours. I guess we've got time to get in under the wire. I've never seen anything like the speed of that robot. It'd take us twice as long to process that stuff.
KIRK: But would we have made the error?
MCCOY: Jim, what if all the ryetalyn on this planet contains irillium?
KIRK: Go with Flint. Keep an eye on procedures.
MCCOY: Like a hawk.
SPOCK: Captain. Something else which is rather extraordinary. This waltz I just played is by Johannes Brahms.
KIRK: Later, Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, it is written in manuscript. In original manuscript, in Brahms' own hand, which I recognize. It is totally unknown, definitely the work of Brahms, and yet unknown.
KIRK: I think I will go to the laboratory. There may be a way of reversing the irillium's effect and saving the existing antitoxin. Stay here. Let me know when Flint and McCoy return.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5843.75. Have I committed a grave error in accepting Flint's word that he would deliver the antidote to us? The precious time I have let pass may result in disaster for the Enterprise and her crew.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: You left us. The room became lonely.
RAYNA: It is a thirst, a flower dying in the desert.
KIRK: What? What's in there?
RAYNA: I do not know. Flint told me never to enter. He denies me nothing else.
KIRK: Then why are you here?
RAYNA: I do not know. I come here when I am troubled, when I would search myself.
KIRK: Are you troubled now?
RAYNA: Yes.
KIRK: By what? Are you happy here with Flint?
RAYNA: He is the greatest, kindest, wisest man in the galaxy.
KIRK: Then why are you afraid? Don't be afraid.
RAYNA: Stop command. Stop.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Fortunately, the robot did not detect my presence and deactivate my phaser.

[Living room]
FLINT: M4 was programd to defend this household and its members. No doubt I should have altered its instructions to allow for unauthorized but predictable actions on your part. It thought you were attacking Rayna. A misinterpretation.
KIRK: If it were around right now, it would correct
FLINT: Too useful a device to be without, really. I created another. It will now go to the laboratory and join Doctor McCoy.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
FLINT: Be thankful that you did not attack me, Captain. I might have accepted battle, and I have twice your physical strength.
KIRK: In your own words, it would be an interesting test of power.
FLINT: How childish he is, Rayna. Would you call him brave or a fool?
RAYNA: I'm glad he did not die.
FLINT: Of course! Death, when unnecessary, is a tragic thing. Doctor McCoy's in the laboratory with the new ryetalyn. He's satisfied as to its quality. May I suggest that you wait here patiently, safely. You have seen that my defense systems operate automatically and not always in accordance with my wishes. Come, Rayna. Rayna! Come.
KIRK: I don't like the way he orders her around.
SPOCK: Since we are dependent on Mister Flint for the ryetalyn, Captain, may I respectfully suggest that you pay less attention to the young lady if you should encounter her again. Our host's interests do not appear to be confined to art and science.
KIRK: He loves her?
SPOCK: Strongly indicated.
KIRK: Jealousy. Yes, that would explain the attack, but he seemed to want us together. The billiard game. He suggested we dance.
SPOCK: It does appear to defy the male logic as I understand it.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Report on the Rigelian fever.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Nearly everybody aboard has got it, Captain. We're working a skeleton crew and waiting for the ryetalyn.
KIRK (voiceover): Just a little while longer, Scotty. Report on the computer search.
UHURA: There is no report on Mister Flint. He doesn't seem to have any past.

[Living room]
UHURA (voiceover): The planet was purchased thirty years ago by a Mister Brack, a wealthy financier and recluse.
KIRK: Run a computer check on Rayna Kapec. Status, legal ward after the death of her parents.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
KIRK: Kirk out, Mister Scott.
SPOCK: We have still a greater mystery, Captain. I was able to run a tricorder scan on Mister Flint. He is human, but there are certain biophysical peculiarities. Some body function readings are disproportionate. For one thing, extreme age is indicated on the order of six thousand years.
KIRK: Can you confirm that, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I shall program the readings through Doctor McCoy's medical computer when we return to the ship.
KIRK: Time factor.
SPOCK: We must commence ryetalyn injections within two hours and eighteen minutes or the epidemic will prove fatal to us all.
KIRK: What's keeping the processing this time?

[Sitting room]
SPOCK (screen): The delay may be deliberate.
KIRK (screen): As though he's keeping us here for some reason.
SPOCK (screen): Most interesting. Our host appears to wish us to linger, yet he is apprehensive. It is logical to assume that we are being monitored and that he is aware of our every move.
RAYNA: You sent the robot to kill him.
FLINT: It came to protect you.
RAYNA: My mind could not have summoned it. I was not frightened.
FLINT: It was defective, then. I would have destroyed it myself. Have I lied to you?
RAYNA: Never.
FLINT: Believe what I say. I would not want Captain Kirk dead. What did you feel?
RAYNA: You will let them have the ryetalyn?
FLINT: Yes. Go to them, if you wish. Say your farewells.

[Living room]
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Scott, sir. There's no record of a Rayna Kapec in Federation legal banks.
KIRK: No award of custody?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: No background at all in any computer banks. Like Flint.

[Living room]
KIRK: Kirk out. Like Flint. People without a past. What hold does he have over her?
SPOCK: Captain, I would suggest that our immediate concern is the ryetalyn.
KIRK: Let's find McCoy.
RAYNA: Captain?
KIRK: I'll meet you in the lab.
RAYNA: I've come to say goodbye.
KIRK: I don't want to say goodbye.

[Sitting room]
FLINT: A last tender encounter, Captain Kirk, to end your usefulness.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: I tell you, Spock, I was waiting for the robot to finish the processing, and the next thing I knew it was gone and so was the ryetalyn.
SPOCK: Interesting. Obviously, Mister Flint is not yet ready for us to depart.
MCCOY: Well, I think we'd better tell Jim.
SPOCK: The captain wanted us to wait here.

[Living room]
KIRK: Come with me. I offer you happiness.
RAYNA: I've known security here.
KIRK: Childhood must end. You love me, not Flint.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: Flint lied. The ryetalyn isn't here.
SPOCK: Picking up tricorder readings, Captain. Apparently the ryetalyn is behind this door.
KIRK: Why is Flint playing tricks on us? Apparently we're supposed to go in and get it, if we can. Well, let's not disappoint the chess master. Phasers on full.
SPOCK: Captain, I shall get the ryetalyn.
KIRK: Why you?
SPOCK: There may be dangers within.
KIRK: Let's find out.
SPOCK: Let me go alone, Captain.
MCCOY: Why? Get to the point, Spock, if there is one.
KIRK: We'll all go.

[Lab two]
MCCOY: The ryetalyn. (And over by the far wall is a covered figure with the label - Rayna 16. Kirk takes a look at it. It is a bald version of Rayna. They look further and see others. Rayna 14, Rayna 15.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5843.8. We have accomplished our mission and have the ryetalyn ready to combat the epidemic aboard the Enterprise. But we have also diskovered our benefactor's secret. He has created the perfect woman. Her only flaw, she's not human.

[Lab two]
MCCOY: Physically human but not human. These are earlier versions of Rayna, Jim. She's an android.
FLINT: Created here by my hand. Here, the centuries of loneliness were to end.
SPOCK: Your collection of Leonardo da Vinci masterpieces, Mister Flint, they appear to have been recently painted on contemporary canvas with contemporary materials. And on your piano, a waltz by Johannes Brahms, an unknown work in manuscript, written in modern ink. Yet absolutely authentic, as are your paintings.
FLINT: I am Brahms.
SPOCK: And da Vinci?
FLINT: Yes.
SPOCK: How many other names shall we call you?
FLINT: Solomon, Alexander, Lazarus, Methuselah, Merlin, Abramson. A hundred other names you do not know.
SPOCK: You were born?
FLINT: In that region of earth later called Mesopotamia, in the year 3834 BC, as the millennia are reckoned. I was Akharin, a soldier, a bully and a fool. I fell in battle, pierced to the heart and did not die.
MCCOY: Instant tissue regeneration coupled with some perfect form of biological renewal. You learned that you were immortal and
FLINT: And to conceal it. To live some portion of a life, to pretend to age and then move on before my nature was suspected.
SPOCK: Your wealth and your intellect are the product of centuries of acquisition. You knew the greatest minds in history.
FLINT: Galileo, Socrates, Moses. I have married a hundred times, Captain. Selected, loved, cherished. Caressed a smoothness, inhaled a brief fragrance. Then age, death, the taste of dust. Do you understand?
SPOCK: You wanted a perfect, ultimate woman, as brilliant, as immortal as yourself. Your mate for all time.
FLINT: Designed by my heart. I could not love her more.
KIRK: Spock, you knew?
SPOCK: I had hoped I was wrong.
FLINT: You cannot love an android, Captain. I love her. She is my handiwork, my property. She is what I desire.
KIRK: You brought me here to learn this? Does she know?
FLINT: She will never know.
KIRK: Let's go.
FLINT: You will stay.
KIRK: Why?
SPOCK: We have diskovered what he is, Captain.
FLINT: If you leave, the curious would follow, the foolish, the meddlers, the officials, the seekers. My privacy was my own. Its invasion be on your head.
SPOCK: We can remain silent.
FLINT: The disaster of intervention, Spock. I've known it. I will not risk it.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
KIRK: Clear out of the area. Inform Starfleet Command. Enterprise? Scotty?
FLINT: They cannot answer, Captain.
KIRK: My crew.
FLINT: The test of power. You had no chance. It is time for you to join your crew.
KIRK: You'd wipe out four hundred lives? Why?
FLINT: I have seen a hundred billion fall. I know death better than any man. I have tossed enemies into his grasp. And I know mercy. Your crew is not dead, but suspended.
KIRK: Worse than dead! Restore them. Restore my ship!
FLINT: In time. A thousand, two thousand years. You will know the future, Captain Kirk.
MCCOY: You have been such men. You've known and created such beauty. You've watched your race evolve from cruelty and barbarism throughout your enormous life, and yet now you would do this to us?
FLINT: The flowers of my past. I hold the nettles of the present. I am Flint now, with my needs.
KIRK: What needs?
FLINT: Tonight I have seen something wondrous, something I've waited for, labored for. Nothing must endanger it. At last, Rayna's emotions have stirred to life. Now they will turn to me in this solitude which I preserve.
RAYNA: No.
FLINT: Rayna.
RAYNA: You must not do this to them.
FLINT: I must.
SPOCK: What will you feel for him after we are gone?
MCCOY: All emotions are in play, Mister Flint. You harm us, she hates you.
KIRK: Give me back my ship. Your secret is safe with us.
KIRK: That's why you delayed the processing of the ryetalyn. You realized what was happening. You kept us together, Rayna and me, because you knew I could bring her emotions alive. And now you're just going to take over.
FLINT: I shall take what is mine when she comes to me. We are mated, Captain, alike, immortal. You must forget your feelings in this matter, which is quite impossible for you.
KIRK: Impossible? Impossible. From the beginning, you used me. I can't love her, but I do love her. And she loves me.
FLINT: No!
SPOCK: Captain, your primitive impulses will not alter the circumstances.
KIRK: Stay out of this. We're fighting over a woman.
SPOCK: No, you're not, for she is not.
RAYNA: I cannot be the cause of this. I will not be the cause of this. Please stop. Stop! I choose where I want to go.
RAYNA: what I want to do. I choose. I choose.
FLINT: Rayna!
RAYNA: No. Do not order me. No one can order me!
KIRK: She's human. Down to the last blood cell, she's human. Down to the last thought, hope, aspiration, emotion, she's human. The human spirit is free. You have no power of ownership. She's free to do as she wishes.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, I urge you to stop. There is a danger.
FLINT: No man beats me.
KIRK: I don't want to beat you. This is no test of power. Rayna belongs to herself and she claims the human right of choice to be as she wills, to do as she wills, to think as she wills.
FLINT: That's what I've worked for.
KIRK: Rayna, come with me.
FLINT: Stay.
RAYNA: I was not human. Now I love. I love.
FLINT: You can't die.
KIRK: What happened?
SPOCK: She loved you, Captain. And you, too, Mister Flint, as a mentor, even as a father. There was not enough time for her to adjust to the awful power and contradictions of her new-found emotions. She could not bear to hurt either of you. The joys of love made her human, and the agonies of love destroyed her.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: The epidemic is reduced and no longer a threat. The Enterprise is on course five one three mark seven, as you ordered.
KIRK: A very old and lonely man. And a young and lonely man. We put on a pretty poor show, didn't we? If only I could forget.
MCCOY: Jim. Oh, thank heaven, sleeping at last.
SPOCK: Your report, Doctor.
MCCOY: Oh, those tricorder readings on Mister Flint are finally correlated: He's dying. You see, Flint, in leaving Earth with all of its complex fields within which he was formed, sacrificed immortality. He'll live the remainder of a normal life span, then die.
SPOCK: On that day, I shall mourn. Does he know?
MCCOY: Yes, I told him myself. He intends to devote the remainder of his years and great abilities to the improvement of the human condition. And who knows what he might come up with.
SPOCK: Indeed.
MCCOY: Well, I guess that's all. I can tell Jim later or you can. Considering his opponent's longevity, truly an eternal triangle. You wouldn't understand that, would you, Spock? You see, I feel sorrier for you than I do for him because you'll never know the things that love can drive a man to. The ecstasies, the miseries, the broken rules, the desperate chances, the glorious failures, the glorious victories. All of these things you'll never know simply because the word love isn't written into your book. Goodnight, Spock.
SPOCK: Goodnight, Doctor.
MCCOY: I do wish he could forget her.
SPOCK: Forget.

[Bridge]
SULU: All observation stations, take final readings. This'll be our last orbit.
KIRK: Spock, any answers?
SPOCK: I still read a suggestion of carbon cycle life forms on the planet surface, Captain.
KIRK: Which is scientifically impossible under conditions there.
SPOCK: Agreed. Mister Sulu, switch to the planet area I have under observation.
SULU: I'm reading it now, Mister Spock. It seems to indicate artificial power being generated in factor seven quantities.
SPOCK: Which would indicate a considerable civilisation there.
MCCOY: What's all this poppycock about life forms on this planet, Spock? The surface is molten lava. The atmosphere is poisonous.
SPOCK: Our readings could be false, Captain, perhaps caused by some natural phenomena.
MCCOY: Well I think Starfleet should forget about those old space legends. There's no intelligent life here.
KIRK: Lieutenant, anything from the planet?
UHURA: I've repeatedly tried on every hailing frequency, sir. There's no response on any channel.
KIRK: Transmit to Starfleet our sensor readings and log entries on the planet. Surface conditions make it impossible for us to beam down and investigate further. We are therefore going on to our next assignment.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SULU: Completing final orbit, sir.
KIRK: Prepare to warp us out.
KIRK: Alert status.
SPOCK: We're being scanned, Captain. A deep probe, incredibly swift.
MCCOY: Jim!
LINCOLN (screen): Captain Kirk, I believe. A pleasure to make your acquaintance, sir.
KIRK: Uhura
LINCOLN (screen): No need to check your voice telegraph device. Do I gather that you recognize me?
KIRK: I recognize what you appear to be.
LINCOLN (screen): And appearances can be most deceiving, but not in this case, James Kirk. I am Abraham Lincoln.
KIRK: Spock.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
LINCOLN (screen): I have been described in many ways, Mister Spock, but never with that word.
KIRK: I was requesting your analysis, Spock.
SPOCK: They did scan us and our vessel, Captain, and doubtless obtained sufficient information to present this illusion.
LINCOLN (screen): Illusion? Captain, will you permit me to come aboard your vessel? No doubt you have devices which can check my reality.
KIRK: We'd be honored to have you aboard, Mister President.
LINCOLN (screen): Do you still measure time in minutes?
KIRK: We can convert to it, sir.
LINCOLN (screen): Then you should be directly over my position in. There. Exactly twelve and one half minutes. Until then, Captain.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Mulney.
SPOCK: Small change occurring there, Captain.
KIRK: Magnification four, helm.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: An area of approximately one thousand square kilometers. It measures completely Earth-like.
SULU: Perfect oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere.
CHEKOV: He called it to the second, sir. We'll be over it in exactly twelve minutes now.
KIRK: Security, send a detachment to the transporter room immediately, phaser side arms, and be prepared to give presidential honors.
MCCOY: Jim, do you really believe he's Abraham Lincoln?
KIRK: It's obvious he believes it. Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock, full dress uniforms.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Full dress? Presidential honors? What is this nonsense, Mister Dickerson?
DICKERSON: I understand President Lincoln's coming aboard, sir.
SCOTT: Ha! You're daft, man.
DICKERSON: All I know is what the captain tells me, and he says he'll have the hide of the first man that so much as smiles.
SCOTT: I'd have expected sanity from the ship's surgeon, at least. President Lincoln, indeed. No doubt to be followed by Louis of France and Robert the Bruce.
KIRK: If so, we'll execute appropriate honors to each, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Gentlemen, I don't for a moment believe that President Lincoln is actually coming aboard, but we're dealing with an unknown and apparently highly advanced life-form. Until we know, when in Rome, we'll do as the Romans do.
CHEKOV (voiceover): Bridge to Transporter room. One minute to overhead position.
SCOTT: Locked on to something. Does that appear human to you, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Fascinating. For a moment, it appeared almost mineral. Like living rock with heavy fore claws. It's settling down now to completely human readings.
SCOTT: We can beam it aboard anytime now, sir.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, take tricorder readings and see if it is human. Appropriate ruffles and flourishes, Mister Spock. Security, stand ready.
DICKERSON: Phaser team, set ready for a heavy stun.
SPOCK: Band honors ready, Captain.
KIRK: Energize.
KIRK: The USS Enterprise is honored to have you aboard, Mister President.
LINCOLN: Strange. Where are the musicians?
KIRK: That's taped music, sir. A starship on active duty never carries an honor detachment.
LINCOLN: Taped music, you say. Well, perhaps Mister Spock will be good enough to explain that to me later. A most interesting way to come aboard, Captain. What was the device used?
KIRK: An energy-matter scrambler, sir. The molecules in your body are converted into energy, then beamed into this chamber and reconverted back into their original pattern.
LINCOLN: Well, since I'm obviously here, and quite whole, whatever you mean apparently works very well indeed. Gentlemen, if those are weapons, please lower them. At my age, I'm afraid I'm not very dangerous.
MCCOY: Human, Jim.
LINCOLN: All too human, Doctor McCoy. Happy to make your acquaintance.
KIRK: Mister President, may I present my officers. Commander Spock, second in command, Engineering Officer Scott and Security Officer Dickerson.
LINCOLN: Mister Spock, Mister Scott, Mister Dickerson. Gentlemen, I hope to talk to each of you. But meanwhile, your captain is consumed with questions and I shall do my utmost to answer them. And I trust your duties will permit time to answer some of mine. At your service, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Dickerson, you and your men may return to quarters. Mister President.
LINCOLN: A most interesting vessel.
MCCOY: Just what was it you locked onto before you beamed him aboard?
SCOTT: You heard Mister Spock yourself. Mineral he called it, like living rock.
MCCOY: And that became Lincoln?
SCOTT: I couldn't tell. It may have been another figure down there standing by. What do you make of it?
MCCOY: I'm not quite sure.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5906.4. Who or what has been beamed aboard our vessel? An alien who has changed himself into this form? An illusion? I cannot conceive it possible that Abraham Lincoln could have actually been reincarnated. And yet his kindness, his gentle wisdom, his humor, everything about him is so right.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Yes, if I recall, your Union Army observation balloons were tendered six hundred or so feet high. We're six hundred and forty three miles above the surface of this planet.
LINCOLN: You can measure great distances that closely?
SPOCK: We do, sir. Six hundred forty three miles, two thousand twenty one feet, two point zero four inches at this moment, using your old-style measurements.
LINCOLN: Bless me.
UHURA: Excuse me, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Yes, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Mister Scott
LINCOLN: What a charming negress. Oh, forgive me, my dear. I know in my time some used that term as a description of property.
UHURA: But why should I object to that term, sir? You see, in our century we've learned not to fear words.
KIRK: May I present our communications officer, Lieutenant Uhura.
LINCOLN: The foolishness of my century had me apologizing where no offense was given.
KIRK: We've each learned to be delighted with what we are. The Vulcans learned that centuries before we did.
SPOCK: It is basic to the Vulcan philosophy, sir. The combination of a number of things to make existence worthwhile.
LINCOLN: Yes. Philosophy of Nome, meaning all. How did I know that? Just as I seem to know that on the planet surface you will meet one of the greatest living Vulcans in all the long history of your planet. My mind cannot recall his name, but I know he will be there. What is it that powers your vessel, Captain? May I see your engine room?
KIRK: Certainly. Our engineering officer
UHURA: Has been waiting in the briefing room for you, sir, for over two hours.
KIRK: Oh, dear. If you'll forgive me, our communications officer
LINCOLN: I would be delighted to have her as guide.
KIRK: Forgive me again. We'll rejoin you shortly.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: Where the devil are they?
SCOTT: Why, they're probably looking up a plate of haggis in the galley. They've been everywhere else.
KIRK: Sorry to have been delayed, gentlemen.
MCCOY: Jim, I would be the last to advise you on your command image.
KIRK: I doubt that, Bones, but continue.
MCCOY: Do I have to lay it out for you? Practically the entire crew has seen you treat this impostor like the real thing when he can't possibly be the real article.
SCOTT: Lincoln died three centuries ago on a planet hundreds of light years away.
SPOCK: More that direction, Engineer.
MCCOY: You're the science officer. Why aren't you, well, doing whatever a science officer does at a time like this?
SPOCK: I am, Doctor. I am observing the alien.
MCCOY: At last! At least somebody agrees with us he's an alien.
KIRK: Yes, of course he's an alien. MCCOY And he's potentially dangerous.
SCOTT: Mad. Loony as an Arcturian dogbird.
KIRK: Gentlemen, as you know, Mister Spock and I have been invited to beam down to the planet surface with him. Any comments on that?
MCCOY: Yes, a big one. Suddenly, miraculously, we see a small spot of Earth-type environment down there. Now is it really there, or do we just think we see it down there?
SCOTT: You might beam down into a sea of molten lava.
KIRK: But why would he want to kill only two of us?
SPOCK: It would be illogical. With such abilities, they could as easily trick us into destroying the entire vessel.
MCCOY: Are you implying, Mister Spock, that it's probably safe to beam down there?
SPOCK: No, I'm not, Doctor. There's no doubt they want us down there for some hidden purpose. Otherwise, they would have revealed some logical reason for all of this.
KIRK: Why Lincoln, Spock? Any speculation on that?
SPOCK: Speculation is unnecessary, Captain. The answer is clear. President Lincoln has always been a very personal hero to you. What better way to titillate your curiosity than to make him come alive for you.
KIRK: But not only to me, Spock.
SPOCK: Agreed. I, too, experienced his charm. It is a magnificent work of duplication.
MCCOY: But he holds a special involvement to you, Jim. I think it's interesting, in as much as you're the one who's going to make the decision whether to beam down or not.
SCOTT: Don't do it, Captain.
KIRK: The very reason for the existence of our starships is contact with other life. Although the method is beyond our comprehension, we have been offered contact. Therefore, I shall beam down. Mister Spock, as for you
SPOCK: Captain, since I was included in the invitation to make contact, I must beam down with you.
MCCOY: You're both out of your heads!
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: And you're on the edge of insubordination.
MCCOY: Would I be on the edge of insubordination to remind the captain that this smells of something happening to him that I might not be able to patch together again?
SCOTT: Aye!
KIRK: Gentlemen, your concern is noted and appreciated. Mister Spock, standard dress, tricorders and phasers. We will guide President Lincoln to the transporter room. We'll beam down immediately.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Standing by, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Transporter room to bridge. Standing by.
CHEKOV (voiceover): We are now locked in synchronous orbit, Mister Scott. Sensors continue to show the area as completely Earth-like in all respects.
MCCOY: If they're wrong and they do beam into a pool of lava
SCOTT: Then they're dead men. I couldna pull them back in time.
KIRK: All right, Mister Scott, energize.
MCCOY: Scotty.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Captain. Our phasers and tricorders did not beam down with us.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise? Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
SPOCK: Undamaged, yet something is preventing them from functioning.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Come in, landing party. Report. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Can you read us?
MCCOY: If they're all right, they should've reported in.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Your explanation, sir?
LINCOLN: Well, I have none. To me this seems quite as it should be.
KIRK: Why were our weapons taken? Why can't we communicate with our ship?
LINCOLN: Please, believe me. I know nothing other than what I have already told you.
KIRK: The game is over. We've treated you with courtesy. We've gone along with what and who you think you are.
LINCOLN: Despite the seeming contradictions, all is as it appears to be. I am Abraham Lincoln.
SURAK: Just as I am whom I appear to be.
SPOCK: Surak.
KIRK: Who?
SPOCK: The greatest of all who ever lived on our planet, Captain. The father of all we became.

[Bridge]
SULU: All ship's systems going dead. Switch to reserve power. All decks report status.
UHURA: All decks report status. All decks report status.
SULU: Bridge to Engineering. Come in. What's happening to our power? Bridge to Engineering, report.
ENGINEER (voiceover): Everything's out. We've switched to reserve power. Lost all power in the warp engines.
SCOTT: How is it, Mister Sulu?
SULU: No answer yet on what caused it. They're standing by.
SCOTT: Shut down all but the most necessary systems.
UHURA: No damage report, Mister Scott.
ENGINEER (voiceover): No indication of engine damage, sir.
SCOTT: Engage restart cycle.
ENGINEER (voiceover): I can't. I don't understand it.
SCOTT: Start emergency procedures.
ENGINEER (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
SURAK: Live long and prosper, Spock. May you also, Captain Kirk.
SPOCK: It is not logical that you are Surak. There is no fact, extrapolation of fact or theory, which would make possible.
SURAK: Whatever I am, would it harm you to give response?
SPOCK: Live long and prosper, image of Surak, father of all we now hold true.
SURAK: The image of Surak read in your face what is in your mind, Spock.
SPOCK: As I turned and my eyes beheld you, I displayed emotion. I beg forgiveness.
SURAK: The cause was more than sufficient. Let us speak no further of it. In my time, we knew not of Earth men. I am pleased to see that we have differences. May we together become greater than the sum of both of us.
KIRK: Spock, we'll not go along with these charades any longer.
ROCK: You'll have an answer soon, Captain. Our world is called Excalbia. Countless who live on that planet are watching. Before this drama unfolds, we give welcome to the ones named Kirk and Spock.
KIRK: We know nothing of your world or your customs. What do you mean, drama about to unfold?
ROCK: You're intelligent life form, but I'm surprised you do not perceive the honor we do you. Have we not created in this place on our planet a stage identical to your own world?
KIRK: We perceive we were invited to come here, and we came in friendship. And you have deprived us of our instruments to examine your world, to defend ourselves, to communicate with our vessel.
ROCK: Your objection is well taken. We shall communicate with your vessel so your fellow life forms may also enjoy and profit from the play. Behold.
ROCK: Captain, Mister Spock, some of these you may know through history. Genghis Khan, for one. And Colonel Green, who led a genocidal war early in the 21st century on Earth. Zora, who experimented with the body chemistry of subject tribes on Tiburon. Kahless the Unforgettable, the Klingon who set the pattern for his planet's tyrannies. We welcome the vessel Enterprise

[Bridge]
ROCK (screen): To our solar system and to our spectacle.
MCCOY: At least the captain and Spock are safe.
SCOTT: It's a confrontation of some sort. Those are all figures out of history. Notoriously evil.
ROCK (screen): We ask you to observe with us

[Planet surface]
ROCK: The confrontation of the two opposing philosophies you term good and evil. Since this is our first experiment with Earthlings, our theme is a simple one. Survival, life and death. Your philosophies are alien to us, and we wish to understand them and diskover which is the stronger. We learn by observing such spectacles.
KIRK: What do you mean, survival?
ROCK: The word is explicit. If you and Spock survive, you return to your vessel. If you do not, your existence is ended.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Can we beam the captain and Spock back up?
SCOTT: We don't have the power. They'll come aboard a mass of dying flesh.
MCCOY: Well, can we send the phasers down?
SCOTT: There's nothing we can do, Doctor. Nothing but watch them. He's skimmed the worst ones in history to face them.
MCCOY: But they're not real, any more than that Lincoln or Surak. What do the sensors read?
CHEKOV: As life-forms. They are living beings.
MCCOY: Could they be aliens projecting an illusion?
CHEKOV: The readings are those of humanoids.
ROCK (screen): Why do you hesitate?

[Planet surface]
ROCK: Do you wish further clarification? Your choice of action is unlimited, as is your choice of weapons. Should you wish to use any, you may fabricate anything you desire out of what you can find around you. Captain?
KIRK: Mister Spock and I refuse to participate.
ROCK: You will decide otherwise.
KIRK: Analysis, Spock. Why do they want us to fight?
SPOCK: It may be exactly as explained, Captain. Our concept of good and evil is strange to them. Perhaps they wish to determine which is strongest.
KIRK: And they'll get their answers if it kills us.
LINCOLN: I'm afraid none of us may leave, gentlemen, until we do what it demands of us.
GREEN: Captain Kirk, may I speak with you? I quite agree with your attitude toward this charade. It's ridiculous to think that we should take part in it.
KIRK: What do you want?
GREEN: The same thing as you do, to get out of here. I have no quarrel with you any more than you have with me.
KIRK: You're somewhat different than the way history paints you, Colonel Green.
GREEN: History tends to exaggerate. I suggest we call a halt to this at once and see if we can't find some way out of our difficulties. My associates are in full agreement with me. Captain, you were tricked into coming here, weren't you? So were we all.
KIRK: Where do you come from?
GREEN: I can't remember. Isn't that strange? My memory used to be quite remarkable. Well, wherever it was, I want to get back. So it seems to me, Captain, that we have a common cause, and our enemy is that creature.
KIRK: What do you propose?

[Bridge]
GREEN (screen): That we combine forces, and reason some way to overcome it.
KIRK (screen): You were notorious, Colonel Green, for striking at your enemies in the midst of negotiating with them.
GREEN (screen): But that was centuries ago, Captain, and not altogether true. No, there is much I would change now if I could. Don't let prejudice and rumor sway you.
SULU: Captain! How can we warn him?

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Anyone hurt?
LINCOLN: I fear my clothing is somewhat damaged, but how delightful to diskover at my age that I can still wrestle.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I'm all right, Captain. However, I suggest that we prepare ourselves for another attack.
KIRK: No, I think Colonel Green is right. That rock-like thing is our enemy, not those illusions.
LINCOLN: For an illusion, my opponent carried a considerable punch. Oh, I forgot. You consider me an illusion too.
SURAK: The captain speaks wisely. Those four are not our enemy. We should arrive together at a peaceful settlement.
ROCK: I am disappointed. You display no interest in the honor we do you. We offer you an opportunity to become our teachers by demonstrating whether good or evil is more powerful. You find my body heat distressing, Captain? You forget the nature of this planet. I must conclude that your species requires a cause to fight for. You may now communicate with your ship.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.

[Engineering]
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Engineering. Report, Lieutenant.
ENGINEER: Emergency increasing, sir.

[Bridge]
ENGINEER (voiceover): Deterioration has just started, sir.
SCOTT: Give me that again, man. I cannot hear you.
UHURA: Mister Scott, I have the captain.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, do you read me?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Scott, I have the captain.
SCOTT: Engineering, check for radiation. Get a repair crew on it at once.
ENGINEER (voiceover): We have already, sir. We can't seem to stop it.
SCOTT: Is there a danger of detonation?
ENGINEER (voiceover): Estimating four hours, sir.
UHURA: Red Alert, Captain. Mister Scott is standing by.
KIRK (voiceover): What caused the red alert?
UHURA: I don't know yet, sir.
SCOTT: Captain.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, beam us up fast.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I cannot. We have a complete power failure.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT (voiceover): We're on emergency battery power only.
KIRK: What happened?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I can't explain it, sir, but the matter and antimatter are in red zone proximity.
KIRK (voiceover): What caused that?
SCOTT: There's no knowing and there's no stopping it either. The shielding is breaking down. I estimate four hours before it goes completely. Four hours before the ship blows up.

[Planet surface]
ROCK: The estimate is quite correct. Your ship will blow itself to bits within four hours, Captain, unless you defeat the others before then. Is that cause enough to fight for?
KIRK: What if they defeat us?

[Bridge]
ROCK (screen): To save your ship and your crew, you have to win.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Scotty, inform Starfleet Command. Disengage nacelles, Jettison if possible. Mister Spock, assist them. Advise and analyze. Scotty? Scotty?
ROCK: Your communicators no longer function, Captain. You may proceed with the spectacle.
LINCOLN: James, the war is forced upon us. History repeats itself. Supplemental Log, stardate 5906.5. Engineer Scott reporting. The Enterprise is doomed to explode in two hours if Captain Kirk is defeated by the enemy on the surface of the planet. The enormous power of the Enterprise has been neutralized and we sit here watching, unable to assist.

[Bad man base]
GREEN: Did you set the traps?
KAHLESS: Yes.
GREEN: What did you find out? What are they doing?
KAHLESS: They've done nothing. They've not armed themselves nor prepared for any kind of defense. I say attack now and finish them.
GREEN: With what? These?
KAHLESS: Better than what they have.
GREEN: No, it's not advantage enough. I want to make sure the odds are in our favor. Overwhelm and devastate, that's the way to get power and to hold it, and I mean to do that.

[Good guy base]
KIRK: There's nothing immoral about fighting an illusion, Mister Spock. We play their game, fight, or lose the ship and all the crewmen aboard.
SPOCK: And if they're real, Captain?
KIRK: We'll use this as a base. It's defensible. They can't approach without being seen.
LINCOLN: Are we fighting a defensive war, James?
KIRK: No, we don't have time. But if things go against us, I want a place to retreat to. What I want to do now is scout them out, find their weaknesses and attack.
LINCOLN: Do you drink whiskey?
KIRK: Occasionally. Why?
LINCOLN: Because you have qualities very much like those of another man I admire greatly. General Grant.
KIRK: Thank you. Thank you. Mister Spock, we'll need weapons. I believe the ancient Vulcans made something like a boomerang?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: And slings and spears. Slings. Mister President. You used a sling as a boy.
LINCOLN: Indeed I did.
SPOCK: Captain. Logic dictates that we consider another course.
KIRK: We don't have much time, Spock.
SURAK: In my time on Vulcan, we also faced these same alternatives. We'd suffered devastating wars which nearly destroyed our planet. Another was about to begin. We were torn. But out of our suffering some of us found the diskipline to act. We sent emissaries to our opponents to propose peace. The first were killed, but others followed. Ultimately we achieved peace, which has lasted since then.
KIRK: Circumstances were different then, Surak.
SURAK: The face of war has never changed, Captain. Surely it is more logical to heal than kill.
KIRK: I'm afraid that kind of logic doesn't apply here.
SURAK: That is precisely why we should not fight.
KIRK: My ship is at stake.
SURAK: I will not harm others, Captain.
SPOCK: His convictions are most profound in this matter, Captain.
KIRK: So are mine, Spock. If I believed that there was a peaceful way out of this
SURAK: The risk will be mine alone. If I fail, you lose nothing. After all, I'm no warrior.
SPOCK: The captain knows that I have fought at his side before and will do so now, if need be. However, I too, am a Vulcan, bred to peace. Let him attempt it.
KIRK: You saw how treacherously they acted.
SURAK: Oh, yes. But perhaps it's our belief in peace that is actually being tested.
KIRK: I have no authority over you. You may do as you think best.
SURAK: Thank you. May you live long and prosper.
KIRK: The weapons, gentlemen. In case he fails.

[Bad guy base]
KAHLESS: Colonel!
GREEN: No. Let's hear what he has to say. We may find it useful. Stop there, Vulcan. State your purpose.
SURAK: I come in peace to propose peace.
GREEN: Are you surrendering? SURAK I'm doing what I consider best for all of us. If you choose to regard that as surrender, I accept your definition.
KAHLESS: One of those peace lovers, Colonel.
GREEN: Why are you doing this? Do you speak for the others?
SURAK: No, I speak for myself because I abhor violence. But if you accept the solution I offer, they, too, will accept it.

[Bridge]
GREEN (screen): How can I be sure? I think you're trying to trick me, Vulcan. I think that while you're here talking peace, the others are preparing to attack.
SURAK (screen): No, Colonel. They are at their base awaiting an answer.

[Bad guy base]
GREEN: How can I believe that? No one talks peace unless he's ready to back it up with war.
SURAK: He talks peace if it is the only way to live.
GREEN: Then tell me, what do you have to gain if we accept?
SURAK: Nothing but the knowledge that I have done what I believe in.
GREEN: What do I get out of it? I fight for gain, Vulcan. What do I gain here?
SURAK: Your life and the lives of the others. You said yourself, Colonel, that we have common cause to survive. Together we can. But not by warring.
KAHLESS: Why don't we kill him?
GREEN: No. He's our means to finish them all.
SURAK: Colonel, surely you accept the logic of this. What is your answer?
GREEN: You're very persuasive, Vulcan. I'd like to come out of this with a whole skin. Perhaps I can convince my associates that it would be to their advantage also.

[Good guy base]
KIRK: Your Surak is a brave man.
SURAK: Men of peace usually are, Captain. On Vulcan, he is revered as the father of our civilisation. The father image holds much meaning for us.
KIRK: You show emotion, Spock.
SPOCK: I deeply respect what he has accomplished.
KIRK: I hope he accomplishes something here, and soon.
KIRK: Surak?
SURAK (voiceover): Help me, Spock! Spock, help me!
GREEN (voiceover): Mister Spock, your friend wants you. He seems to be hurt.
SURAK (voiceover): Spock! Help me, Spock! Spock! Help me!
GREEN (voiceover): You can't let him suffer.
SPOCK: They're trying to goad us into attacking, Captain. They expect us to act rashly.
KIRK: Yes, I know that.
SURAK (voiceover): Help me, Spock!
SPOCK: He was aware of what might happen when he went.
KIRK: I should never have let him go.
SPOCK: You had no choice, Captain. You could not have stopped him.
KIRK: How can you ignore that?
SPOCK: A Vulcan would not cry out so.
KIRK: Whether he's a Vulcan or not, he's in agony.
SPOCK: I am not insensitive to it, Captain.
SURAK (voiceover): Help me, Spock!
KIRK: But you can just listen to it and do nothing. I can't.
SPOCK: Captain, that is what they are waiting for. They're waiting for us to attempt a rescue.
KIRK: I can't just let him stay there.
LINCOLN: Perhaps we can rescue him, Mister Spock. Now, I suggest that we do whatever they want.
KIRK: Do what they want, sir?
LINCOLN: Not the way they want it, however. We must first convince them that they have provoked us to recklessness. James, I do not mean to presume upon your authority. What I propose is that I circle around to their rear while you two provide a frontal assault. It should be sufficiently violent to cover whatever I do.
KIRK: And what will you do?
LINCOLN: Why, slip into their camp and free him.
KIRK: No.
LINCOLN: James, James. Remember, I was something of a backwoodsman. I doubt that you could do what I was bred to.
KIRK: I can't let you risk it, Mister President.
LINCOLN: I am no longer president. Mister Spock, any comment?
SURAK (voiceover): Help me, Spock!
SPOCK: No, sir.
LINCOLN: One matter further, gentlemen. We fight on their level. With trickery, brutality, finality. We match their evil. I know, James. I was reputed to be a gentle man. But I was commander in chief during the four bloodiest years of my country's history. I gave orders that sent a hundred thousand men to their death at the hands of their brothers. There is no honorable way to kill, no gentle way to destroy. There is nothing good in war except its ending. And you are fighting for the lives of your crew.
KIRK: Your campaign, Mister President.

[Bad guy base]
GREEN: They should be coming soon.
GREEN: Zora! Kahless! No, wait!
GREEN: How many do you see?
KAHLESS: Two.
GREEN: Zora.
LINCOLN: Surak.
LINCOLN: Surak, the others have drawn them away. We will circle around. It was a worthy effort, Surak. Worthy. No need to blame yourself before its failure.
KAHLESS: Help me, Spock. Help me, Spock.
GREEN: Now can you cry like Lincoln?
KAHLESS: Help me, Kirk. Help me, Kirk!
KIRK: Mister Lincoln!
LINCOLN: James, stay back.
ROCK: You are the survivors. The others have run off. It would seem that evil retreats when forcibly confronted. However, you have failed to demonstrate to me any other difference between your philosophies. Your good and your evil use the same methods, achieve the same results. Do you have an explanation?
KIRK: You established the methods and the goals.
ROCK: For you to use as you chose.
KIRK: What did you offer the others if they won?
ROCK: What they wanted most. Power.
KIRK: You offered me the lives of my crew.
ROCK: I perceive you have won their lives.
KIRK: How many others have you done this to? What gives you the right to hand out life and death?
ROCK: The same right that brought you here. The need to know new things.
KIRK: We came in peace.
ROCK: And you may go in peace.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SULU (voiceover): Is that you, Captain? Are you all right?
KIRK: Yes, Mister Sulu. We're all right. You may beam us aboard.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Scott, report.
SCOTT: The ship is functioning normally again, sir, and the restart cycle is in operation. You'd never know anything had been out of order. I can't fathom it.
KIRK: Mister Sulu.
SULU: We should be on warp power within thirty minutes, sir.
KIRK: Good. Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: The deterioration in the shielding has stopped and is reversing itself. I have no explanation.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Chekov. Mister Spock, any explanation?
SPOCK: Conjecture, Captain, rather than explanation.
KIRK: Well?
SPOCK: It would seem that we were held in the power of creatures able to control matter and to rearrange molecules in whatever fashion was desired. So they were able to create images of Surak and Lincoln after scanning our minds and using their fellow creatures as source matter.
KIRK: They seemed so real. And to me, especially Mister Lincoln. I feel I actually met Lincoln.
SPOCK: Yes, and Surak. Perhaps in a sense they were real, Captain. Since they were created out of our own thoughts, how could they be anything but what we expected them to be?
KIRK: It was so hard for me to see him die again. I feel I understand what Earth must have gone through to achieve final peace.
UHURA: Captain Kirk, the planet has resumed its normal appearance.
KIRK: There's still so much of their work to be done in the galaxy, Spock. Mister Sulu, break us out of orbit and continue to our next assignment.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 5943.7. We have calculated that Beta Niobe will go nova in approximately three and a half hours. Its only satellite, Sarpeidon, is a Class M planet, which at last report was inhabited by a civilized humanoid species. Now our instruments show that no intelligent life remains on the planet.

[Library]
SPOCK: The power source we detected is in this building, Captain.
KIRK: Any sign of survivors?
SPOCK: No signs of sapient life forms.
MCCOY: How can a planet full of people just disappear?
KIRK: If they knew that their sun was dying, it could be anything up to mass suicide.
SPOCK: Reports deny that they had any space flight capability. This appears to be an archive or library of some kind.
KIRK: Then we're certainly in the right place to find out what happened, where the inhabitants are, and if there are any left now.
MCCOY: Well, that's fine. Where do we start?
ATOZ: May I help you? I am the librarian. May I be of assistance?
KIRK: Perhaps you can, Mister
ATOZ: Mister Atoz. I confess that I'm a little surprised to see you. I had thought that everyone had long since gone. But the surprise is pleasant one. After all, a library serves no purpose unless someone is using it.
KIRK: You say everyone is gone? Where'd they go?
ATOZ: It depended on the individual, of course. If you wish to trace a specific person, I'm sorry, but that information is confidential.
MCCOY: No, no particular person, just people in general. Where did they go?
ATOZ: Ah, you find it difficult to choose, is that it? Yes, a wide range of alternatives is a mixed blessing, but perhaps I can help. Would you step this way, please?
ATOZ: May I help you? You may select from more than twenty thousand verism tapes, several hundred of which have only recently been added to the collection. I'm sure you'll find something here that pleases you. You, sir, what is your particular field of interest?
KIRK: What about recent history?
ATOZ: Really? Oh, that's too bad. We have so little on recent history. There was no demand for it.
KIRK: It doesn't have to be extensive, Just the answers to a few questions.
ATOZ: Of course. Reference services available at the desk.
ATOZ: You're very late. Where have you been?
KIRK: You're a very agile man, Mister Atoz. Just how many of you are there? We came as soon as we knew what was happening.
SPOCK: Forgive me, sir. It is my fault. I must have miscalculated. Our readings indicated that there was no one here at all.
ATOZ: Of course I know. Everyone on this planet was warned of the coming nova long ago. They followed instructions and are now safe. And you had better do the same.
KIRK: Did you say they were safe?
ATOZ: Absolutely. Every single one.
KIRK: Where did they go?
ATOZ: Wherever they wanted to go, of course. It is strictly up to the individual's choice.
KIRK: I see. And you personally sent all these people on the planet to safety?
ATOZ: Yes, yes, yes. They are all gone, except you three. Of course, I had to delegate the simple tasks to my replicas.
KIRK: You are the real one, Mister Atoz?
KIRK: Of course. I am the real Mister Atoz.
MCCOY: As a matter of fact, he's quite real, Jim.
KIRK: Let us take you with us to a place of safety.
ATOZ: No, thank you. I plan to join my wife and family when the time comes. Now, don't be concerned about me. Think of yourselves. I warn you most urgently. Make your escape before it's too late. The library is at your complete service. I will gladly supply you with all reference material to help you. History of the planet is available in every detail. Just choose what interests you the most. The millennium, the century, the date, the moment. The library is your key. Oh! It's in the wrong file. Make your own selection, but remember, you're very late.
KIRK: We'll choose it as quick as we can. How long till nova?
SPOCK: Three hours, thirteen minutes.
KIRK: This gentleman is not
ATOZ: You, sir. I think you'll find something interesting over here.
ATOZ: Now, if these won't do, I can bring you another file.
ATOZ: Have you made your selection, sir?
SPOCK: Exactly what is it that I'm expected to select?
ATOZ: I'm sure I was clear. The period in which you're interested.
SPOCK: I see. This is a fascinating machine. What is it?
ATOZ: Ah, this is the atavachron.
SPOCK: Interesting nomenclature. How does it work? May I
ATOZ: Oh, no, sir, no. I must ask you not to touch the controlling mechanism. Return and make your selection. When you have chosen, I will prepare you through the atavachron.
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Atoz.
KIRK: Spock. Bones.
ATOZ: Wait! I haven't prepared you.
ATOZ: You must be prepared!

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: What is this place?
SPOCK: Yes, and where is the captain?

[17th Century]
WENCH: You dirty thing. Let go of me!
MAN: Vile vixen!
MAN: Come when you are bidden, slave! You need a lesson in how to use your betters. Who's your master?
KIRK: I'm a free man, sir.
MAN 2: Then you want better manners, free man. Defend yourself!

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: Heating this boulder may provide some temporary heat.
MCCOY: What's wrong?
SPOCK: Something's preventing my phaser from operating.

[17th Century]
WENCH: Oh, thank you, man. I thought I'd be limbered sure when that gull caught me cutting his purse.
KIRK: What's that? Are you all right?
WENCH: Oh, I took you to be an angler, but you're none of us, are ya? Well, you're a bully fine coe for all of that. What a handsome dish ya served them, the coxcombs.
KIRK: You better come back with me to the library. You'll be safe there. Doctor McCoy can see to those bruises.
WENCH: I'm game, love. Lead and I'll follow. Where's library?
KIRK: It's right over there.

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: Where's the captain, Spock? We were right behind him.

[17th Century]
WENCH: What's with you, man? Let's make off before coxcombs come with shoulder clappers.
KIRK: No. Do you remember when you first saw me? Do you remember whether I came through some kind of door?
WENCH: Oh, I think the rum gull must've kicked you in the head. Come on, love. I know a leech who'll ask no questions.
KIRK: No. No. It must be here someplace.
MCCOY (voiceover): Jim!

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: Jim, can you hear us?

[17th Century]
KIRK: Bones? Spock?

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: Captain, we hear you, but we cannot see you.

[17th Century]
SPOCK (voiceover): Are you all right?
KIRK: We must've missed each other somehow.
SPOCK (voiceover): Agreed.

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: Apparently they've all escaped the destruction of their world by retreating into its past.

[17th Century]
WENCH: Mercy on us. It's spirits.
KIRK: No, no. No, no, no. These are friends of mine, and they're

[Ice Age]
KIRK (voiceover): Spock, are you in the library?
SPOCK: Indeed not. We're in a wilderness of arctic characteristics.
MCCOY: He means it's cold.

[17th Century]
KIRK: Can you get to the library?

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: There is no library, Captain, at least not that we can see. We are at the base of an ice cliff.

[17th Century]
KIRK: Explain.

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: Just before you disappeared, Captain, I diskovered a machine which Mister Atoz called the atavachron.

[17th Century]
KIRK: It must have been tied in to the tape viewer somehow.

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: Opening time portals to the past. You cross through into the period which you were viewing.
MCCOY: I was looking over some material about their Ice Age.
SPOCK: I am here, evidently, because I stepped through at the same instant as Doctor McCoy.

[17th Century]
KIRK: Yes. My friends are coming back with reinforcements.
MAN: There's the mort's accomplice. Arrest him.
LAW: We are the law, and do require that you yield to us.
KIRK: On what charge?
LAW: Thievery and purse cutting.
KIRK: That's a mistake. I'm no thief.
MCCOY (voiceover): What's happening?
LAW: Lord help us. What's that?
WENCH: It's spirits.
LAW: Away. Away, spirit, and let honest men approach.
KIRK: Keep talking!
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain!
MAN: They speak at his bidding. Stop his mouth and they'll quiet.
SPOCK (voiceover): You must be close to the portal. KIRK Keep talking now!

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: Jim, what's the matter? Jim sounded like he was in trouble.
SPOCK: We may be in trouble ourselves. We must find shelter.
SPOCK: In this severe cold, we cannot survive much longer.
MCCOY: Leave me here, Spock.
SPOCK: We go together or not at all.
MCCOY: Don't be a fool. My hands and face are frostbitten. I can't feel my feet. Alone you have a chance. Now do what I say. Go try to find Jim.
SPOCK: We go together.
MCCOY: You stubborn, thickheaded Vulcan!

[Cave]
SPOCK: He's suffering from the severity of your weather. Unfortunately, he is the doctor, not I. I'll avoid giving him any medication at this time. Perhaps, if he's kept quiet and warm, he may recover naturally. It is agreeably warm here.
ZARABETH: What are you called?
SPOCK: I'm called Spock.
ZARABETH: Even your name is strange. Forgive me. I've never seen anyone who looks like you. Why are you here? Are you prisoners too?
SPOCK: Prisoners?
ZARABETH: This is one of the places Zor Kahn sends people when he wants them to disappear. Didn't you come in through the time portal?
SPOCK: Yes, we came through the time portal, but not as prisoners. We were sent here by mistake.
ZARABETH: The atavachron is far away, but I think you come from someplace farther than that.
SPOCK: That is true. I am not from the world you know at all. My home is a planet millions of light years away.
ZARABETH: Oh, how wonderful! I've always loved books about such possibilities. But they are only stories. This isn't real. I must be imagining all this. I'm going mad!
SPOCK: Listen to me. I am firmly convinced that I do exist. I am substantial. You are not imagining this.
ZARABETH: Oh, I've been here for so long, alone. When I saw you out there, I couldn't believe it. Is he dying?

[17C Jail]
LAW: Here. There's the mort. And there's the mort's henchman.
JUDGE: Open up. Rouse him.
JUDGE: You're the thief who talks to spirits.
KIRK: I'm a stranger.
JUDGE: Where are you from?
KIRK: An island.
JUDGE: What is this island?
KIRK: It's called Earth.
JUDGE: I know no island Earth. No matter. Continue.
KIRK: I never saw that woman before tonight. When she screamed, as far as I could tell, she was being attacked.
JUDGE: Then you deny being her accomplice?
KIRK: Yes, I deny it. I was reading in the library when I heard her scream. My lord, the library? Do you remember where the library is, my lord?
JUDGE: Perhaps your part in this is innocent. I believe you to be an honest man.
WENCH: He's a witch!
JUDGE: Take care, woman. I am convinced of your guilt. Do not compound it with false accusation.
WENCH: He speaks to unseen spirits. He's a witch! You heard the voices!
LAW: It's truth, my lord. I heard the spirit talk to him. He answered and did call it Bones.
WENCH: You're a witch. He cast a spell. He made me steal against my wish.
KIRK: Surely you don't believe
JUDGE: You heard these spirits?
LAW: Aye, my lord. I'll witness to it.
KIRK: What he heard, my lord, were only my friends behind the wall in the library. In the library.
JUDGE: I know nothing of this. Send for someone learned in witchcraft and let him examine him. I will have nothing to do with it.
KIRK: My lord, at least arrange for me to meet Mister Atoz.
JUDGE: I know of no Atoz.
KIRK: Yes! Yes! Atoz!
JUDGE: I know nothing of this, nothing of these matters! I will not hear him!
KIRK: Let me speak to you!
JUDGE: I will not hear him.
KIRK: At least let me talk to you!
WENCH: Witch! Witch! Witch! They'll burn ya.

[Cave]
SPOCK: McCoy. McCoy, wake up.
MCCOY: Who are you?
ZARABETH: My name is Zarabeth.
MCCOY: Zarabeth. Spock, are we in the library?
SPOCK: No, we are still in the Ice Age, but safe for the moment.
MCCOY: Jim. What about Jim?
SPOCK: Doctor, you're in no condition to get up. You lie down and rest. I shall attempt to find the captain.
MCCOY: You find him, Spock. Don't you worry about me. You just find him.
ZARABETH: Spock, who is this Jim?
SPOCK: He's our commanding officer and our friend.
ZARABETH: I saw only the two of you. I did not know there was another.
SPOCK: He did not come with us. He was sent through the time portal to another period in history much later than this one. If I am to find him, there is only one possible avenue. Zarabeth, will you show me where the time portal is?
ZARABETH: But your friend. He is ill.
SPOCK: Yes, that is true. If I leave him, there's a chance he may never regain the ship. He would then be marooned in this time period. But he is no longer in danger of death, so my primary duty to him has been diskharged. If I remain here, no one of our party would be able to aid Captain Kirk.
ZARABETH: You make it sound like an equation.
SPOCK: It should be an equation. I should be able to resolve this problem logically. Perhaps it has something to do with the atavachron. If only I knew more about how it worked. Zarabeth, you said that you were brought here as a prisoner. May I ask
ZARABETH: Why? My crime was in choosing my kinsmen unwisely. Two of them were involved in a conspiracy to kill Zor Kahn.
SPOCK: I remember that name from the history tapes in the library. Zor Kahn the Tyrant.
ZARABETH: It was not enough that he execute my kinsmen. Zor Kahn determined to destroy our entire family. He used the atavachron to send us places no one could ever find us.
SPOCK: Zarabeth, I must return to Mister Atoz and the atavachron. We will carry Doctor McCoy, and you must come with us. I will send you and the doctor to the ship, and I shall search for Captain Kirk.
ZARABETH: I can't go through the portal again. If I do, I will die.
SPOCK: You cannot go back?
ZARABETH: None of us can go back. When we come through the portal, we are changed by the atavachron. That is its function. Our basic cell structure is adjusted to the time we enter. You can't go back. If you go through the portal again, you will die by the time you reach the other side.
MCCOY: Spock? Where are we?
ZARABETH: You are safe here, McCoy.
MCCOY: Yes, I remember you.
SPOCK: Come, Doctor, back to bed.
MCCOY: Why are you still here, Spock? Why aren't you looking for Jim?
SPOCK: It is impossible to look for him, Doctor. We cannot go back.
MCCOY: What do you mean impossible? We've got to get back.
SPOCK: Zarabeth explained it to me. When we came through the time portal, it altered our physiological structure. If we attempt to return to the library, we shall die.
MCCOY: Are you trying to tell me that we're trapped here?
SPOCK: Yes, Doctor, we are trapped. Just as Jim is trapped wherever he is.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5943.9. The people of this time believe in witches, and witchcraft is what I've been accused of. Five witnesses heard McCoy's voice speak to me and thought it was an evil spirit. From what I know of witchcraft trials, I don't have much chance unless I can get to the prosecutor.

[17C Jail]
LAW: No supper for you, love. Come on. Up you go.
JAILOR: Give me your cup.
KIRK: Cry out and I'll break it. Don't move.
JUDGE: Jailor! Jailor!
KIRK: I'm being falsely accused. You know that.
JUDGE: You will come with me before the inquisitional tribunal. There the matter of your witchcraft will be decided.
KIRK: There are no such things as witches!
JUDGE: Jailor! That is sacrilege. If they hear you, they will burn you for such beliefs.
KIRK: You're the only one that can hear me, and that's the truth. There are no witches. Why do you deny it?
JUDGE: Do not let them hear you. There are witches! There are! You yourself may be diskovered to be a witch by the inquisitor. No! What are you doing? No!
JUDGE: Help! Help!
KIRK: I'll denounce you to the inquisitor. You came here from the future just as I did. Therefore, you, too, are a witch.
JUDGE: I beg you. Do not implicate me. They would burn me.
KIRK: Then help me.
JUDGE: I will do everything I can to prove you innocent. I will disprove all the charges of witchcraft. But you must never again speak to the comrades you left behind.
KIRK: Help me return to the library. I've lost my way. I must get back there.
JUDGE: You cannot get back.
KIRK: I tell you I must! I had two friends with me, who are lost in another time period. I must find them. You'll come back with us.
JUDGE: We can never go back. We must live out our lives here in the past. The atavachron has prepared our cell structure and our brain patterns to make life natural here. To return to the future would mean instant death.
KIRK: Prepared? I was not prepared. Your Mister Atoz did not prepare me in any way.
JUDGE: Then you must get back at once! If you were not transformed, you can only survive for a few hours here in the past. Come. Hurry. Hurry.

[Cave]
MCCOY: Zarabeth, you are a beautiful cook. Have you ever been told that?
ZARABETH: Not recently.
MCCOY: Oh, well, you'll find that Spock is quite delinquent in those matters.
ZARABETH: I hadn't noticed it.
MCCOY: Oh? Well, now that I'm feeling better, you'll notice a distinct difference in our approach.
SPOCK: Really?
ZARABETH: It's something to look forward to. I think you must be well enough, Doctor, to try the few delicacies this climate has to offer.
MCCOY: No, not yet.
ZARABETH: At your rate of progress, it will be soon, I can see.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy is making excellent progress.
MCCOY: And Mister Spock has been practicing medicine without a license. Don't let him doctor you. I'm the doctor around here.
SPOCK: And known as the worst patient in the entire crew of the Enterprise.
MCCOY: I wonder where she is.
SPOCK: Five thousand years in the future.
MCCOY: Thank you.
MCCOY: I wonder where Jim is.
SPOCK: Who knows. We can only hope that he is well, wherever he is.
MCCOY: What do you mean, we can only hope? Haven't you done anything about it?
SPOCK: What was there to do?
MCCOY: Locate the portal. It can't be too far.
SPOCK: We've been through all that, Doctor. What's the point of rehashing that subject? We can't get back. Wasn't that clear to you?
MCCOY: Yes, that was clear to me.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you were too ill to understand what can't get back means.
MCCOY: I don't believe it, Spock. It's just not like you to give up trying.
SPOCK: Then I'll repeat it for you. Get this through your head. We can't get back. That means we are trapped here in this planet's past just as we are, and we'll stay here for the rest of our lives. Now do you understand?
MCCOY: Yes, I understand. I never thought I'd hear it, but I understand. You want to stay here. As a matter of fact, you're highly motivated to stay in this forsaken waste.
SPOCK: The prospect appeared quite attractive to you a moment ago.
MCCOY: You listen to me, you pointed-eared Vulcan.
SPOCK: I don't like that. I don't think I ever did, and now I'm sure.
MCCOY: What's happening to you, Spock?
SPOCK: Nothing that shouldn't have happened long ago.
MCCOY: Long ago. Of course. Long ago.

[17th Century]
JUDGE: This is where it is. I can't remember the exact spot.
JUDGE: That's it! That is the portal. I cannot wait any longer.

[Library]
KIRK: Spock? McCoy? Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: How much time before the sun blows up?
SCOTT (voiceover): Seventeen minutes. You three had better come back right away.
KIRK: We can't, Scotty. Spock and McCoy are missing.
SCOTT (voiceover): I knew there was trouble. I've got a landing party standing by.
KIRK: No. Under no circumstances send anyone else here without my orders. Prepare to warp out and stand by. Kirk out. Mister Atoz, where are you?
ATOZ: May I help you? It's you. You're lucky you found your way back here. Now let me process you through the atava
KIRK: No. Mister Atoz, my friends and I are from another planet. We don't belong in your history. We don't belong on your planet at all.
ATOZ: Just let me take care of you and get you back where you belong.
KIRK: No. I want to find the exact disk that they were viewing.
ATOZ: Please, go back!
KIRK: I'm sorry, Mister Atoz. Mister Atoz!
ATOZ: I must prepare to escape.
KIRK: I'll let you out in a minute. Still up to your little game of replicas? Which are you this time, real or not?
ATOZ: You are evidently a suicidal maniac. I don't understand what you're trying to do, but if you continue, both of us will die. and I for one, do not wish death.
KIRK: If you help me, we won't die. I promise you that.
ATOZ: I don't trust you.
KIRK: Which one are you now, the replica or the real one?
ATOZ: I am the real Atoz. You've done away with my replicas. I regret what I must now do.
KIRK: You don't really want to hurt me, do you? You've been trying to save my life. I realize that. Put that thing away.

[Cave]
ZARABETH: I cannot pretend to be sorry that you are here, though I realize it is a misfortune for you. I'm here against my will too, just as you are.
SPOCK: I'm sorry. I know of no way to return you to your own time.
ZARABETH: It's not that I wish to return. This is my time now. I've had to face that. But it has been lonely here. Do you know what it's like to be alone? Really alone?
SPOCK: Yes. I know what it is like.
ZARABETH: I believe you do. Have something to eat, please.
SPOCK: If it pleases you. This is animal flesh?
ZARABETH: There's not much else to eat around here, I'm afraid.
SPOCK: Naturally, because of the climate. What is the source of heat in the shelter?
ZARABETH: There's an underground hot spring.
SPOCK: Excellent. Then it will be possible to build a greenhouse of sorts. Meanwhile, this will have to do as the only source of nourishment.
ZARABETH: There aren't many luxuries around here. Zor Kahn only left me what was necessary to survive.
SPOCK: But he evidently intended that you continue living.
ZARABETH: Yes. He gave me weapons, a shelter, food. Everything I needed to live except companionship. He did not want it said that he had me killed. But to send me here alone, if that is not death, what is? A very inventive mind, that man.
SPOCK: But insensitive, to send such a beautiful woman into exile. The cold must've affected me more than I realized. Please pay no attention. I'm not myself. I'm behaving disgracefully. I have eaten animal flesh and I have enjoyed it. What is wrong with me? I tell you you're beautiful. But you are beautiful. Is it so wrong to tell you so?
ZARABETH: I have longed to hear you say it.
SPOCK: You are beautiful. More beautiful than any dream of beauty I've ever known.

[Library]
ATOZ: Just stay where you are, sir. I'll see you get to safety.
KIRK: Now, you're going to help me look for my friends.
ATOZ: You're a most determined man.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT (voiceover): What's happening? Why are you waiting?
KIRK: No time to explain. Are you ready to warp out?
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by to beam us up. But when that star explodes, don't wait. Get out fast. Kirk out. Now we're going to start looking. They were in a frozen waste. I could hear the wind.
ATOZ: All right, all right. All right! It must be the Sarpeidon Ice Age, five thousand years ago. Let me look.
KIRK: We'll both look, Mister Atoz.

[Cave]
MCCOY: Spock. You've been dishonest with me, Spock, and that is also something new for you.
SPOCK: I've given you the facts, Doctor.
MCCOY: The facts as you know them. Or did you just accept Zarabeth's word because it's what you wanted to believe?
SPOCK: You were told the truth. If Zarabeth is the source, what difference does it make?
MCCOY: Zarabeth is a woman condemned to a terrible life of loneliness. She would do anything to anybody to change that. Wouldn't you, Zarabeth?
ZARABETH: I told you what I know.
MCCOY: Did you? You said we can't get back. The truth is you can't get back.
SPOCK: She would not jeopardize other lives.
MCCOY: She would do anything to prevent that life of loneliness. She would lie. She would cheat. She would even murder me, the captain, the entire crew of the Enterprise to keep you here with her. Go ahead, Zarabeth, tell Spock the truth. Go ahead. Tell Spock you would kill!
SPOCK: What are you doing to her?
MCCOY: Are you trying to kill me, Spock? Is that what you really want? Think. What are you feeling? Rage? Jealousy? Have you ever had those feelings before?
SPOCK: This is impossible. Impossible. I am a Vulcan.
MCCOY: The Vulcan you knew won't exist for another five thousand years. Think, man. What's happening on your planet right now, this very moment?
SPOCK: My ancestors are barbarians. Warlike barbarians.
MCCOY: Who nearly killed themselves off with their own passions. Spock, you're reverting into your ancestors five thousand years before you were born!
SPOCK: I've lost myself. I do not know who I am. Can we go back?
ZARABETH: I don't know. I only know that I can't go back.
MCCOY: I know I'm going to try, Spock, because my life is back there, and I want that life.

[Library]
ATOZ: Do you think that's the right one?
KIRK: I don't know.
ATOZ: If we're to get the portal set for the proper time period, you must be specific.
KIRK: I didn't see it.
ATOZ: Well try calling out.
KIRK: Bones? Spock! McCoy! You've got the wrong one.
ATOZ: Please, there's no time left. Let me go.
KIRK: Try again.

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: There's no portal here, Doctor. It's hopeless.
MCCOY: I suppose you're right.
SPOCK: You're too ill to remain out here any longer. Give it up.

[Library]
KIRK: Bones. Spock!

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: It's Jim! Here we are, Jim.

[Library]
KIRK: I've found them. Can you still hear me?
SPOCK (voiceover): We hear you perfectly, Captain.
KIRK: Follow my voice.

[Ice Age]
KIRK (voiceover): Spock, McCoy, follow my voice. Do you hear me? Keep following my voice. Spock. McCoy.
SPOCK: This must be it.

[Library]
KIRK: What are you waiting for? Hurry!

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: Come on, Spock.
SPOCK: You start ahead, Doctor. I do not wish to part from you.
ZARABETH: I cannot come. If I go back, I will die.

[Library]
KIRK: What are you waiting for? Hurry!

[Ice Age]
SPOCK: How much time do we have?

[Library]
KIRK: Scotty, how much time is there?
SCOTT (voiceover): You've got to come aboard now.

[Ice Age]
MCCOY: Come on, Spock, now!
MCCOY: Something's wrong.

[Library]
KIRK: What's the matter? Why can't he get through?
ATOZ: I don't know. Unless, it's because they originally went through the portal together.
KIRK: Spock, McCoy, you can't get through unless you both come back at the same time. Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): Orders or no, I'm beaming you up first.
KIRK: No! Wait!

[Ice Age]
KIRK (voiceover): Spock, McCoy, hurry through the portal. Time is running out.

[Library]
KIRK: He had his escape planned. I'm glad he made it. Kirk to Enterprise.
SPOCK: There's no further need to observe me, Doctor. As you can see, I've returned to the present in every sense.
MCCOY: But it did happen, Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, it happened. But that was five thousand years ago. And she is dead now. Dead and buried. Long ago.
KIRK: Scotty, are you there?
SCOTT (voiceover): Now or never, Captain.
KIRK: Beam us aboard and go to maximum warp as soon as we're there. Kirk out.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5928.5. The Enterprise has received a distress call from a group of scientists on Camus Two, who are exploring the ruins of a dead civilisation. Their situation is desperate. Two of the survivors are the expedition surgeon, Doctor Coleman, and the leader of the expedition, Doctor Janice Lester.

[Camus II]
KIRK: What's wrong with her?
COLEMAN: Exposure to radiation.
MCCOY: What form of radiation was it?
COLEMAN: Nothing I've ever encountered.
KIRK: Janice, you must remain absolutely quiet. Those are doctor's orders, not mine.
SPOCK: Captain. Tricorder picking up very faint life readings. Approximately seven hundred meters from here. Help will have to be immediate.
MCCOY: Perhaps your presence will quiet her.
JANICE: I hoped I wouldn't see you again.
KIRK: I don't blame you.
JANICE: The year we were together at Starfleet is the only time in my life I was alive.
KIRK: I never stopped you from going on with your space work.
JANICE: Your world of starship captains doesn't admit women. It isn't fair.
KIRK: No, it isn't. And you punished and tortured me because of it.
JANICE: I loved you. We could've roamed among the stars.
KIRK: We'd have killed each other.
JANICE: It might have been better.
KIRK: You had your chance, Captain Kirk. You should've smothered the life in me. Then they would have said Doctor Janice Lester died of radiation poisoning in the line of duty. Why didn't you do it? You always wanted to. Didn't you? You had the strength to do it. But you were afraid. You were always afraid. Now Janice Lester takes the place of Captain Kirk. I already possess your physical strength. Only this Captain Kirk is not afraid to kill. Now you know the indignity of being a woman. For you this agony will soon pass, as it has for me. Quiet. Quiet! Believe me, it's better to be dead than to live alone in the body of a woman. It's better to be dead.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, your report.
MCCOY: We were too late, Jim. There's nothing could be done.
KIRK: Was it radiation as suggested?
MCCOY: No, I believe it was celebium. However, Doctor Coleman disagrees. To be specific is essential because the treatment of celebium is quite
COLEMAN: Doctor McCoy.
MCCOY: Did you notice any unusual symptoms while we were gone?
KIRK: No, nothing at all. She was unconscious all of the time.
COLEMAN: Doctor Lester is near death.
KIRK: Perhaps the shock of knowing what happened to her staff is part of her problem.
COLEMAN: I'm sure it is.
MCCOY: Beaming her up to the Enterprise will be less harmful than waiting.
COLEMAN: I don't know. I'm not sure.
KIRK: Captain Kirk to the Enterprise. Captain Kirk to the Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Mister Scott, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott. Prepare to beam the landing party aboard plus two others. One critically ill. Have a medical team standing by to receive the patient. Captain Kirk, out. Prepare to beam aboard.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Doctor Coleman, accompany the patient to the Sickbay. Mister Spock, take the ship out of orbit. Resume designated course. Doctor McCoy. Doctor McCoy, you and Doctor Coleman seem to disagree on diagnosis.
MCCOY: No, not entirely. We both agree it's radiation. Doctor Coleman isn't prepared to say what form of radiation.
KIRK: Will it affect your arriving at a correct treatment?
MCCOY: It's crucial.
KIRK: Well, this is especially disturbing to me for personal reasons.
MCCOY: Oh? I didn't know you knew her that well.
KIRK: Oh, yes. It's been a long time since I saw her. I walked out on her when it became serious.
MCCOY: Well, you must have been very young at the time, Jim.
KIRK: Youth doesn't excuse everything, Doctor McCoy. It's a very unhappy memory for me.
MCCOY: I didn't realize that. I shall do everything in my power.
KIRK: Thank you. Thank you very much.
SCOTT: Doctor Lester is certainly a very lucky young person to have escaped.
KIRK: Yes, very lucky. Very lucky.

[Sickbay]
COLEMAN: It just began.
KIRK: Well you'd better put a stop to it! If you allow Doctor Lester to become fully conscious she'll know what has happened.
COLEMAN: Probably no one will believe it.
KIRK: Probably?
COLEMAN: That's all we can ask for. How can death be explained now?
KIRK: I tell you it can't continue.
COLEMAN: You killed every one of the staff. You sent them where you knew the celebium shielding was weak. Now why didn't you kill him? You had the perfect opportunity.
KIRK: There wasn't enough time.
COLEMAN: I gave you every minute you asked for.
KIRK: He hung onto life too hard. I couldn't
COLEMAN: You couldn't because you love him. You want me to be his murderer.
KIRK: Love? Him? I love the life he led. The power of a starship commander. It's my life now.
COLEMAN: I won't become a murderer.
KIRK: You are a murderer! You knew it was celebium. You could've treated them for it. You're a murderer many times over.
MCCOY: Jim, what are you doing here?
KIRK: I thought my presence might quiet Doctor Lester. It seems to have had the opposite effect.
COLEMAN: It has nothing to do with you. It's a symptom of the developing radiation illness.
MCCOY: Tests with the ship's equipment shows no signs of internal radiation damage, Doctor Coleman.
KIRK: Didn't Doctor Lester's staff become delirious before they went off and died?
COLEMAN: Yes, Captain. Yes.
MCCOY: Doctor Lester could be suffering from a phaser stun as far as the symptoms I can detect, Jim.
KIRK: Doctor Coleman, Doctor McCoy has had a great deal of experience with radiation exposure on board the Enterprise. I am guided by his opinion.
COLEMAN: Doctor Lester and her staff have been under my supervision for two years. If you don't follow my recommendations, responsibility for her health or her death will be yours.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to take you off the case and turn it over to Doctor Coleman.
MCCOY: You can't do this! On this ship my medical authority is final!
KIRK: Doctor Coleman wants to assume the full responsibility. Let him do it.
MCCOY: I won't allow it.
KIRK: It's done! Doctor Coleman, your patient. Doctor Coleman, didn't you suggest a sedation to rest the patient?
COLEMAN: Yes, Captain.
MCCOY: It's not necessary, Jim. Can't you see she's coming around?
KIRK: Doctor Coleman.
COLEMAN: Nurse, administer the sedative.
MCCOY: A sedative is not wise at this time, Captain.
COLEMAN: Nurse Chapel, you have your orders.
MCCOY: Nurse Chapel, follow your instructions.
JANICE: Oh no. Am I really losing command of the Enterprise? No. Oh, no. Bad dream. Bad dream.
KIRK (voiceover): James Kirk is returning to consciousness in the body of Janice Lester. The Enterprise is proceeding to its next mission, on the course set before I took over command. Now the years I spent studying every single detail of the ship's operation will be tested. With a little experience, I will be invulnerable to suspicion. At last I attain what is my just due. Command of a starship. All the months of preparation now come to fruition.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Course, Mister Chekov.
CHEKOV: One two seven mark eight.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, set speed at warp factor two.
SULU: Warp factor two, sir.
KIRK: Mister Chekov, plot a course for the Benecia Colony.
CHEKOV: Direct course to Benecia, three seven three mark eight.
KIRK: How long to the colony at our present speed?
CHEKOV: Forty-eight hours, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, set course for the colony. Three seven three mark eight.
SULU: Aye, sir. Three seven three mark eight.
SPOCK: Captain, that will delay our work at Beta Aurigae. It means reversing course.
KIRK: Yes, it can't be helped. We must take Doctor Lester to a place where she can be treated.
SPOCK: May I point out that Starbase Two is on the direct route to our destination.
KIRK: How long to Starbase Two?
CHEKOV: Seventy two hours, Captain.
KIRK: It's twenty four hours too long. Doctor Lester's condition is increasingly serious. Continue present course.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SPOCK: If the diagnosis of Doctor Lester's illness is the critical problem, then the Benecia Colony is definitely not the place for her. Their medical facilities are the most primitive.
KIRK: They will have to serve.
SPOCK: Starbase Two is fully equipped and staffed with the necessary specialists to determine exactly what is wrong with the doctor. Is that not crucial to your decision?
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock, but the facilities will be of little use if Doctor Lester's dead. Time is of the essence. Continue present course.
SPOCK: At maximum speed, Starbase Two would still meet the emergency.
LYSA: Captain, shall I advise Starfleet Command of the change of plan?
KIRK: No change of plan has been ordered, Lieutenant. Our arrival at Beta Aurigae will merely be delayed. Our gravitational studies of that binary system will not suffer, and a life may be saved! That is not unusual procedure for the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Sir, I believe Starfleet will have to be notified that our rendezvous with the starship Potemkin will not take place as scheduled.
KIRK: Mister Spock, if you'd concentrate on the areas for which you are responsible, Starfleet Command would've been informed already.
SPOCK: Since the captain usually deals with Starfleet in these matters, I assumed that my suggestions might be deemed interference.
KIRK: Inform Starfleet of the delay, Lieutenant.
LYSA: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Continue present course. Increase speed to warp factor six.

[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY: I'll let my record speak for me.
KIRK: Why are you being so defensive? There's no implied criticism of you in my order to remove you from the case.
MCCOY: That is not the reason I'm here. I'm here because Doctor Coleman's record states that he's incompetent.
KIRK: That's the opinion of an individual.
MCCOY: No, sir. That is the opinion of Starfleet Command. I checked with them. Doctor Coleman was removed from his post as Chief Medical Officer of his ship for administrative incompetence.
KIRK: There are no administrative duties required here.
MCCOY: As well as flagrant medical blunders.
KIRK: Promotions and demotions can be politically maneuverd. You know that, Bones.
MCCOY: Not in Starfleet Headquarters, Captain. And certainly not in the Surgeon General's office.
KIRK: I'm afraid the order will have to stand. I can only say that Doctor Coleman's experience with what happened on the planet had to be the deciding factor here. I'm sure that you can appreciate that.
MCCOY: I appreciate the fact that you had a decision to make. I also find myself in that position now, Jim, and I'm asking you to report for an examination.
KIRK: What? What do you base that on?
MCCOY: Development of emotional instability and erratic mental attitudes since returning from that planet.
KIRK: You'll never make that charge stick. Any fool can see why you're doing this.
MCCOY: I'll let Starfleet Command be the judge of my motives.
KIRK: I won't submit to this petty search for revenge!
MCCOY: But you will submit to Starfleet regulations, and they state that the ship surgeon will require full examination of any crew member that he has doubts about, including the captain.
KIRK: Captain Kirk here.
SULU: Sulu here, Captain. Starfleet Command is requesting additional details on the delay.
KIRK: I'll be right there.

[Sickbay]
JANICE: Pulse, pressure, blood count, all body functions normal. Then why am I here?
JANICE: Doctor McCoy? Doctor McCoy
COLEMAN: Quiet would be best for you.
JANICE: Where's Doctor McCoy?
COLEMAN: I'm in charge now.
JANICE: Bring Doctor McCoy at once! He is in command of medicine on this ship.
COLEMAN: He was taken off your case by Captain Kirk.
JANICE: By Captain Kirk?
COLEMAN: It was done for your own protection, Doctor Lester.
JANICE: I am not Janice Lester! She did this to me! Now how can I make you understand? Janice has driven herself mad with jealousy, hatred and ambition.
JANICE: Nurse Chapel. Bring Mister Spock and Doctor McCoy to me at once. Now they must believe I am not Janice Lester. I am imprisoned in her body, but I am not Janice Lester.
COLEMAN: She is suffering from the delusion of being Captain Kirk.
JANICE: I am not Janice Lester!
COLEMAN: The paranoia has been developing for the past six months. The radiation seems to have intensified it. She must be kept sedated.
CHAPEL: Shall prepare a mild sedative, Doctor?
COLEMAN: Of course.
COLEMAN: You are insane, Doctor Lester.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate unknown. I have lost track of time. I am still held captive in a strange body and separated from all my crew.

[Sickbay]
JANICE: I must've sounded quite mad to you before.
CHAPEL: What you've been through would've completely broken most of us.
JANICE: Well, I'll be all right now. Could I see your Doctor McCoy?
CHAPEL: I'm afraid that's against Doctor Coleman's orders.
JANICE: Oh. Is a visit by that very kind Mister Spock to be allowed?
CHAPEL: Perhaps that can be arranged before we reach the Benecia Colony.
JANICE: The Benecia Colony? But isn't the Enterprise going to rendezvous with the Potemkin at Beta Aurigae?
CHAPEL: Well, first we have to let you recuperate at Benecia. You'll feel better if you have a little.
JANICE: Well, I'll try. Thank you. Oh, it is good. Thank you. Could I finish it slowly, Nurse Chapel?
CHAPEL: Well
JANICE: I promise I'll be good.
CHAPEL: Well, I'll be right back. I'm glad you're feeling so much better.

[Sickbay - exam ward]
MCCOY: These tests should help me pinpoint the cause of Jim's illness.
SPOCK: Good. Knowledge of the captain's aberrant behavior is spreading through the ship. The crew is becoming increasingly tense.
MCCOY: Yes, well what worries me most is that Jim seems completely unaware that something is wrong with him. We've got to make him realize that something serious is happening before treatment can even begin.
SPOCK: I'm afraid that is a forlorn hope, Doctor. The illness appears to be primarily mental.
MCCOY: One of us should be able to get to him. I keep looking for an approach, but the speed at which the illness has traveled makes it doubly difficult.
SPOCK: Perhaps the Surgeon General's office should be alerted.
MCCOY: You know headquarters, Spock. They're only interested in results of specific tests. So far all we have to offer are our opinions.
SPOCK: Are you sure that the captain will comply with your order in his present state of mind?
MCCOY: I'll use my medical authority to enforce it if necessary.
SPOCK: Doctor, we are treading on very thin ground. Actions such as these might be misinterpreted.
MCCOY: Well, then, so be it. Our responsibility is clear.
SPOCK: Whatever happened to the captain on that planet must've taken place in the short space of time that he was alone with Doctor Lester. Perhaps a conversation with her might shed some light.
MCCOY: Well, it's worth a try. Why don't you try to get to Doctor Lester while I examine Jim.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen. I'm here, Doctor.
JANICE: Spock. Bones. Help me. Don't let them lock me away from you. I've got to talk to you.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Jim!
KIRK: She might have killed someone.
KIRK: Put her in isolation in her room. Maintain a twenty four hour watch. No one, absolutely no one, is to talk to her without my permission!
GALLOWAY: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Captain.

[Outside Lester's room]
SPOCK: How is the doctor?
GALLOWAY: She regained consciousness very quickly.
SPOCK: Good. I have questions to ask her.
GALLOWAY: Did the captain order it, sir?
SPOCK: Why should he? They are my questions, therefore I am ordering it, Lieutenant.
GALLOWAY: The captain said no one is allowed to speak to Doctor Lester.
SPOCK: Has such an order ever included his senior officers?
GALLOWAY: No, sir. Mister Spock, I think the captain meant that a guard should be present.
SPOCK: By all means, Lieutenant.

[Exam room]
MCCOY: That's enough. That's enough. Your heart will last forever, Captain.
KIRK: How am I otherwise?
MCCOY: In the pink, as usual. Liver, kidney, blood count, metabolic rate. Everything, even your glands, functioning at their usual, normal peak of efficiency.
KIRK: Good. I hope you're as pleased about it as I am.
MCCOY: Don't get dressed yet.
KIRK: You said I was in perfect condition.
MCCOY: Physically.
KIRK: I don't think another test is necessary.
MCCOY: The Robbiani dermal-optic is crucial. It reveals the basic emotional structure. You had one once before. Now I need another one to compare with that previous test. There should be no change in your dermal-optic reactions to the color wavelengths. Over here, Captain. Over here, Captain.

[Janice's room]
SPOCK: Complete life-entity transfer with the aid of a mechanical device?
JANICE: Yes, that's what it must've been.
SPOCK: To my knowledge, such total transfer has never been accomplished with complete success anywhere in the galaxy.
JANICE: It was accomplished and forgotten long ago on Camus Two. I am a living example.
SPOCK: That is your claim. As yet, it is unsubstantiated by any external evidence or objective tests.
JANICE: Nevertheless, Spock, it is the truth I'm speaking.

[Exam room]
MCCOY: Now lower your arms and open your eyes.

[Janice's room]
SPOCK: At this moment Doctor McCoy is examining the captain for psychological changes. If any facts are uncovered, that would be acceptable evidence. The only kind which is acceptable to Starfleet Command and to the crew of the Enterprise.
JANICE: Spock, when I was caught in the interspace of the Tholian Sector, you risked your life and the Enterprise to get me back. Help me get back now. When the Vians of Minara demanded that we let Bones die, we didn't permit it.
SPOCK: That is true. The captain did not. However, those events have been recorded. They could have become known to you.
JANICE: You are closer to the captain than anyone in the universe. You know his thoughts. What does your telepathic mind tell you now?
SPOCK: I believe you. However, my belief is not acceptable evidence. Evidence must be factual. Doctor McCoy may be of help. Come with me.
GALLOWAY: I'm sorry, sir, but Doctor Lester cannot leave here.

[McCoy's office]
KIRK: Well, are you satisfied with the results of the tests?
MCCOY: There is no positive evidence of any disorder.

[Janice's room]
GALLOWAY: You're asking me to violate the captain's orders.
SPOCK: He is not the captain.
GALLOWAY: You're as mad as she is. You're to leave here at once. I follow orders.
SPOCK: Certainly, Lieutenant. We all must do our duty.
GALLOWAY: Security guard!

[McCoy's office]
KIRK: No hard feelings, Bones. You did your usual thorough, good job.
MCCOY: I'm sure everything's going to be all right.
ENSIGN (voiceover): Captain Kirk!
KIRK: Captain Kirk here.
ENSIGN (voiceover): Escape attempt by Doctor Lester.
KIRK: Captain Kirk to Security. On the double to Doctor Lester's room!

[Outside Janice's room]
SPOCK: It's quite all right, Ensign. Everything is under control.
KIRK: Phasers.
SPOCK: A repetition of your physical violence is not called for, sir. No physical resistance will be offered.
KIRK: Attention, all personnel. First Officer Spock has been placed under arrest. He has conspired with Doctor Lester to take over the ship from your captain. A hearing will be immediately convened to consider the charges and specifications of a general court martial on the charge of mutiny. Captain's Log, stardate 5930.3. The results of Doctor McCoy's examination have given me complete confidence in myself. My fears are past. I shall function freely as the captain. I am the captain of the Enterprise, in fact.

[Courtroom]
SCOTT: Surely you must have more than that to go on.
SPOCK: I have stated my evidence. Telepathic communication with the mind of Captain James T. Kirk.
SCOTT: Your evidence is completely subjective. We have to have evidence that we can examine out in the open.
SPOCK: You've had great deal of evidence, except that of the chief witness. The one who should be the real subject of this investigation is kept locked away and in isolation. Why, Captain?
KIRK: She's dangerously insane. We've seen the evidence.
SPOCK: She is dangerous only to your authority, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Mister Spock, my authority has been given to me by Starfleet Command, and only that high authority can take it away.
SPOCK: The witness, sir. Bring on the witness. Let your officers put the questions.
KIRK: Mister Lemli, have Doctor Janice Lester brought here.
LEMLI: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Doctor McCoy, while Mister Spock was busy with his ambitious plot, what were you doing?
MCCOY: Examining you.
KIRK: Oh, yes. You were deeply concerned about my health, emotional and physical, since leaving Camus Two. Is that correct?
MCCOY: Yes, that's correct.
KIRK: Instead of trying to destroy me, you were searching for ways to help me. Doctor McCoy, for the record, will you tell the court your findings?
MCCOY: The captain is in the best of physical condition. His emotional and mental state is comparable to the time that he assumed command of the Enterprise.
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor McCoy. Mister Spock, were you aware of Doctor McCoy's findings?
SPOCK: I know them now.
KIRK: And what have you to say now?
SPOCK: I am disappointed and deeply concerned that there is no objective evidence to support my position. So far.
KIRK: Doctor Coleman, if you're required here, we'll call you.
KIRK: We certainly appreciate your being here. Everyone is deeply aware that you have been subjected to inordinate emotional stress. We had hoped to avoid any further stress, but Mister Spock disagrees. It is his opinion that your testimony is important in determining the merits of his case. And since we are solely interested in arriving at a just decision, I'm going to have to ask you a few more questions. I'll try not to upset you. You claim that, that you are Captain James T. Kirk?
JANICE: No. I am not Captain Kirk. That is very apparent. I claim that whatever it is that makes James Kirk a living being special to himself is being held here in this body.
KIRK: Oh. Well. However, as I understand it, I am Doctor Janice Lester.
JANICE: That's very clever, but I didn't say it. I said, the body of James Kirk is being used by Doctor Janice Lester.
KIRK: A subtlety that somehow escapes me. I assume that this switch was arrived at by mutual agreement.
JANICE: No. It was brought about by a violent attack by Doctor Lester and the use of equipment she diskovered on Camus Two.
KIRK: Violence by the lady, perpetrated on Captain Kirk? I ask the assembled personnel to look at Doctor Janice Lester and visualize that historic moment. Can you, can you tell me why Doctor Janice Lester would agree to this ludicrous exchange?
JANICE: Yes. To get the power she craved, to attain a position she doesn't merit by temperament or training. And most of all, she wanted to murder James Kirk, a man who once loved her. But her intense hatred of her own womanhood made life with her impossible.
KIRK: Are you prepared with witnesses? One will do.
SPOCK: Sir, there is only one issue here. Is the story of life-entity transfer believable? This crew has been to many places in the galaxy. They've been witness to many strange events. They are trained to know that what seems to be impossible often is possible, given the scientific analysis of the phenomenon.
KIRK: Mister Spock, have you ever heard of a case such as described by Doctor Janice Lester?
SPOCK: Not precisely, no.
KIRK: Oh. Assuming that you are correct in your belief, do you expect Starfleet Command to place this er, this er, person in command of the Enterprise?
SPOCK: I expect only to reveal the truth.
KIRK: And with the truth revealed, that I am not really the captain, and knowing that she would not be allowed to serve as the captain, then you would be the captain! It is inevitable! Spock. Spock, give it up! Return to the Enterprise family. All charges will be dropped and the madness that temporarily overcame all of us on Camus Two will fade and be forgotten.
SPOCK: And what will become of Doctor Lester?
KIRK: Doctor Lester will be cared for always. It is a debt and a responsibility I owe her from the past.
SPOCK: No, sir. I shall not withdraw a single charge that I have made. You are not Captain Kirk. You have ruthlessly appropriated his body, but the life entity within you is not that of Captain Kirk. You do not belong in charge of the Enterprise and I shall do everything in my power against you.
KIRK: Lieutenant Lysa, play back those last two sentences from Mister Spock's tirade.
SPOCK (voiceover): You do not belong in charge of the Enterprise and I shall do everything in my power against you.
KIRK: You heard the statements placed into the record by you. Do you understand the nature of it?
SPOCK: I do. And I stand by it.
KIRK: It is mutiny! Deliberate, vindictive, insane at its base! But mutiny is charged, and encouragement to mutiny. Doctor McCoy, Mister Scott, you heard it! On the basis of these statements, I call for an immediate vote, by the powers granted to me as captain of the Enterprise. A recess is declared, to be followed by a vote.
SPOCK: Yes, sir. An immediate vote before our chief witness can be left to die on some obscure planet with the truth locked away inside of her.
KIRK: Silence. You will be silent! A recess has been declared. There will be no cross-diskussion. When I return, we will vote on the charge of mutiny. The evidence presented here is the only basis of your decision.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Scotty.
SCOTT: Doctor. Doctor, I've seen the captain feverish, sick, drunk, delirious, terrified, overjoyed, boiling mad. But up to now I have never seen him red-faced with hysteria. I know how I'm going to vote.
MCCOY: I've been through this with Spock. He's not being scientific and neither are you.
SCOTT: It may not be scientific, but if Mister Spock thinks it happened, then it must be logical.
MCCOY: Don't you think I know that? My tests show there's nothing wrong with the captain. Now that's the only fact Starfleet's going to be interested in.
SCOTT: Headquarters has its problems, and we have ours. And right now, the captain of the Enterprise is our problem. They're going to call for the vote in a few minutes. Let me put one last question. Suppose you vote with me, in favor of Spock. That means two votes to one and Spock is free. What do you think the captain'll do?
MCCOY: I don't know.
SCOTT: Aye, you know, all right. It'll stick in his craw. He'll never accept it.
MCCOY: We don't know that.
SCOTT: I tell you, he won't. Then, Doctor, that's the time we move against him. We'll have to take over the ship.
MCCOY: We're talking about mutiny, Scotty.
SCOTT: Aye. Are you ready for the vote?
MCCOY: Yes. I'm ready for the vote.

[Courtroom]
KIRK: Play the tapes of the conversation in the corridor.
LYSA: Aye, sir.
SCOTT (voiceover): Then's the time we move against him. We'll have to take over the ship.
MCCOY (voiceover): We're talking about mutiny, Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye. Are you ready for the vote?
MCCOY: That's enough. We know what was said.
KIRK: Enough to convict you of conspiracy with mutineers. And you're so charged. The sentence, death. Mister Lemli.
CHEKOV: Starfleet expressly forbids the death penalty.
KIRK: All my senior officers turning against me?
SULU: The death penalty is forbidden. There's only one exception.
CHEKOV: General Order Four. It has not been violated by any officer on the Enterprise.
KIRK: I am responsible. The execution will be immediate. Go to your posts. Go to your posts.
KIRK: Mister Lemli, take them to the brig. Prepare for execution. Go on!

[Bridge]
SULU: The captain really must be going mad if he thinks he can get away with an execution.
CHEKOV: Captain Kirk wouldn't order an execution even if he were going mad. That cannot be the captain.
SULU: What difference does it make who he is? Are we going to allow an execution to take place?
CHEKOV: If security backs him up, how will we fight him?
SULU: I'll fight them every way and any way I can.
KIRK: Lieutenant Lysa, inform all sectors of my decision. Have each section send a representative to the place of execution on the hangar deck. Mister Chekov, how far to the Benecia Colony?
CHEKOV: Coming within scanning range.
KIRK: Plot co-ordinates for orbit. Mister Sulu, lock into co-ordinates as soon as orbit is accomplished. Interment will take place on Benecia.
KIRK: You have received your orders! You will obey my orders. You'll be charged with mutiny! You will obey my orders or, or,

[Brig]
JANICE: For a moment, I thought that I was up on the bridge.
SPOCK: Perhaps you were.
MCCOY: Then it's possible the transference can be broken.
JANICE: Well, if it happens again, I'll fight to stay there.
SCOTT: The bridge is where you belong.
SPOCK: To accomplish that, each one of us must be ready to seize any opportunity to break out of here and attack.

[Medical lab]
KIRK: Arthur, the transference is weakening.
COLEMAN: What happened?
KIRK: For a moment, I found myself back with the prisoners. I will not go back to being Janice Lester. You must help me prevent it.
COLEMAN: The only way to prevent the transference is by the death of Janice Lester. You must carry out the execution.
KIRK: I can't. I can't. The crew is in mutiny. You must kill her for me.
COLEMAN: I have done everything else for you. But I will not murder for you.
KIRK: Then do it for yourself. If Kirk doesn't die, we'll both be exposed as murderers. Does that give you any choice?
KIRK: The dosage should be doubly lethal.
COLEMAN: It is.

[Brig]
KIRK: To prevent further conspiracy, you will be removed to separate cells. If there's any resistance, you'll be given a sedative until you learn co-operation. Doctor Lester will be first. Follow Doctor Coleman.
SPOCK: May I point out, Captain
KIRK: Kill him! Kill him!
JANICE: Ohh! I've lost to the captain. I've lost to James Kirk! I want you dead! I want you dead! I want you dead! Oh, I'm never going to be the captain. Never. Kill him.
COLEMAN: You are, you are as I loved you.
JANICE: Kill him.
KIRK: Can you do anything for her?
COLEMAN: I'd like to take care of her.
MCCOY: Of course. Come with me.
KIRK: I didn't want to destroy her.
SPOCK: I'm sure we all understand that, Captain.
KIRK: Her life could have been as rich as any woman's, if only. If only.