KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5392.4. The Enterprise has been assigned to escort two robot grain ships to Sherman's Planet, which has been struck by crop failures and famine. This shipment of seed grain, quintrotriticale, is necessary to the survival of the colonists. We are breaking course to Sherman's Planet to investigate what appears to be a Klingon battle cruiser pursuing some kind of smaller ship. Observation may confirm a rumor that the Klingons have a new weapon, type so far unknown.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, it is a Klingon ship. Rapidly closing on its target.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate the smaller vessel is a one-man scout ship of common design.
SULU: They're firing on him.
KIRK: Klingon battle cruiser, identify yourself. Ahead, warp factor six. Scotty, lock the transporter on that small vessel. We're going to rescue that pilot.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Locking on.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies. Klingon battle cruiser, identify yourself. You are violating Federation space. Identify yourself. Stop firing on scout ship.
KIRK: Arm all phasers. Deflector shields up.
SULU: Phasers armed. Shields up.
KIRK: Ahead warp factor eight. Klingon battle cruiser, identify yourself.
SULU: They got him.
KIRK: Scotty, have you got that pilot yet?
SCOTT (voiceover): I don't know, sir.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: That Klingon . That blast decalibrated the integration parameters.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain. (The Klingon ship is coming straight for them. Red Alert sounds. A wibbly energy field is fired at Enterprise)
KIRK: The new weapon. Spock?
SPOCK: Some kind of field effect, Captain. It will hit us in precisely four seconds. It produces a most remarkable disruption.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Now, what

[Bridge]
SULU: Our engines are dead.
SPOCK: Captain, we have been hit by a kind of projected stasis field. Our matter-antimatter generators are disabled. We are paralyzed.
KIRK: Fire phasers.
SULU: The phasers don't work, sir.
SPOCK: The photon torpedoes will not respond, either. The stasis field disables all higher-order field and warp functions.
UHURA: Well, we could always throw rocks.
SPOCK: This new Klingon weapon must be one of surprising power if it can immobilize a starship. The energy drain on the Klingon ship would be enormous.
KIRK: Scotty, did you get that pilot?
SCOTT (voiceover): I got him in the beam, sir.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: But I can't integrate him. The system's been discoordinated.
UHURA: Captain, I have a message coming in, sir.
KIRK: Put it on the viewscreen.
KOLOTH (screen): Ah, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Release my ship.
KOLOTH (screen): I'd be delighted to, Captain Kirk, if you will turn over the pilot of the little ship.
KIRK: That ship was a Federation-built craft. The pilot is under our protection.
KOLOTH (screen): He has committed ecological sabotage. If I have to take him by force, I will.
KIRK: The first Klingon to step aboard this ship will be the last Klingon. Full security alert, Mister Spock.
KOLOTH (screen): I'm afraid, Captain Kirk, you'll find your phasers no longer work, nor any of your weapons.
UHURA: Mister Spock, I'm losing contact with our robot ships. They're not held by the stasis field and they're moving out of range.
KIRK: What was that? Lieutenant, cut off that frequency.
UHURA: Yes, sir. The robot ships, they're moving off.
KIRK: They still have power? We still control them?
SULU: Affirmative, sir.
KIRK: Bring them back, Mister Sulu. Have them ram the Klingon ship.
SPOCK: Captain, you can't afford to lose that grain.
KIRK: I can afford even less to lose the Enterprise. Open the hailing frequency again, Lieutenant. Captain Koloth. I'm going to give you one last chance to release the Enterprise.
KOLOTH (screen): You're going to give me one chance? It won't work, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: It will work, or he'd still be gloating. Bring the robot ships in from two different angles, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Incredible. The amount of energy that field must require.
SPOCK: They couldn't maintain the stasis field.
KIRK: Keep your phasers locked on target, Mister Sulu. Hold your fire until they fire first.
SULU: Aye, sir. Phasers locked on.
SPOCK: Apparently their battle capacity is down. They only damaged it.
SULU: They're veering off.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate their power cells are almost exhausted. They probably don't have the strength for a prolonged battle now.
KIRK: Scotty, can you integrate that pilot now?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: I think so, Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): We'll be right there.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Call McCoy to the Transporter room. Spock.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Have you got him?
SCOTT: Just putting him together now, sir.
KIRK: I think we know that man.
SPOCK: It appears to be
MCCOY: I don't want to think about it.
KIRK: Cyrano Jones!
SCOTT: And he's got tribbles with him. Tribbles!
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue effort has given us some knowledge of the new Klingon weapon and the presence of Cyrano Jones, intergalactic trader and general nuisance.

[Transporter room]
JONES: Captain Kirk. Friend Kirk.
KIRK: Seal off the area, Ensign. You know the law about transporting animals proven harmful.
JONES: Captain, these are safe tribbles.
MCCOY: There's no such thing as a safe tribble.
SPOCK: A safe tribble would be a contradiction in terms. Tribbles are well known for their proclivities in multiplication.
JONES: And they breed fast, too. And that's why these tribbles are safe. They don't reproduce.
MCCOY: Don't reproduce?
JONES: I've had them genetically engineered for compatibility with humanoid ecologies. See how friendly and loveable they are? And not a baby in the bunch. They're great pets and profitable, too.
KIRK: Jones, how did you get away from Space Station K7? You were supposed to clean up all the tribbles there.
JONES: Oh, well, I managed a short parole. I found some help. This is a tribble predator. It's called a glommer.
JONES: Watch.
MCCOY: Well, at least it's neat.
KIRK: Why were the Klingons chasing you, Jones?
JONES: How should I know? Klingons have notoriously bad tempers.
SPOCK: That may be true, but they rarely enter Federation space and fire on Federation vessels without reason.
KIRK: They did mention ecological sabotage.
JONES: Me? A saboteur? Ridiculous.
KIRK: Captain Koloth was pretty emphatic.
JONES: It was such a little thing. I can't understand at all why they got upset.
KIRK: What did you do?
JONES: I only sold them some tribbles.
KIRK: You sold tribbles on a Klingon planet?
JONES: Well, I didn't know it was a Klingon planet.
KIRK: Tribbles don't like Klingons. That should have given you some clue.
JONES: Klingons like tribbles even less. It was lucky you came along and saved me when you did, Friend Kirk. I couldn't have outrun them much longer.
KIRK: According to our computer files, Jones, you are in violation of three Federation mandates and forty seven local ones. You're confined until we complete our mission. Then we'll turn you over to the proper authorities.
JONES: Captain, couldn't we talk this over? I didn't think so.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: Jim, Cyrano Jones is right. These tribbles don't reproduce. They just get fat. I don't think we have anything to worry about.
KIRK: Not about tribbles, anyway. I am concerned about that new Klingon weapon.
SPOCK: It is an energy-sapping field of great strength, Captain. It immobilizes a starship and its weapons capability. But apparently, it also immobilizes the attacking ship's abilities at the same time.
SCOTT: Aye, and if that's true, then it's a weapon that leaves them as helpless as it does us.
SPOCK: I believe I just said that, Mister Scott.
KIRK: The practical advantages of such a weapon would seem to be limited.
SPOCK: Perhaps, but there are logical applications. The key question is, how long does it take them to recharge? They will probably attack us again as soon as they are back up to power. And they will probably begin by destroying the other robot ship to prevent us from repeating the same trick. They want Cyrano Jones very badly.
MCCOY: He really doesn't seem the saboteur type, Jim.
KIRK: Yes. Status report on the damaged grain ship, Scotty?
SCOTT: Well, sir, we've managed to transfer all the grain aboard, but it severely limits us. We filled the shuttlecraft hangars, all our extra holds, and we've even got containers of that wheat, that quintrotriticale, in the corridors of the ship. And then we've got that other robot ship to escort, too. I don't like it at all, sir.
KIRK: Nor do I, Mister Scott, but we've got to do it. Sherman's Planet needs that grain desperately.
SCOTT: Aye, sir, but we've got tribbles on the ship, quintrotriticale in the corridors, Klingons in the quadrant. It can ruin your whole day, sir.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, sensors are picking up a Klingon battle cruiser.
KIRK: Deflector shields up. Stand by phasers. How fat do these things get?
SULU: Klingon ship approaching rapidly. Within phaser range in thirty seconds.
SPOCK: Obviously, they can recharge their power in a matter of hours.
KIRK: Use the robot ship as a decoy. Have it change course and move off. We'll use it again to give the Klingons trouble. They can't control more than one ship at a time with their stasis field.
SULU: Beginning evasive maneuvers.
SPOCK: The Klingon seems to be veering off. My mistake, Captain. They were not veering off. They were attacking the grain ship.
SULU: But they didn't destroy it. They only wrecked the propulsion units. They left the cargo intact.
SPOCK: Captain Koloth is quite a marksman.
SULU: They've changed course. They're coming in again.
KIRK: Ready phasers.
SULU: Phasers armed and ready, sir.
KIRK: Photon torpedoes. Fire one.
SPOCK: They're running away. Very odd. They did not use their stasis weapon at all.
KIRK: Perhaps they haven't had enough time to recharge it.
SPOCK: Or the purpose of the attack was something else.
SULU: They disabled the robot ship.
KIRK: Scotty, put a tractor beam on it. We'll take it in tow.
SPOCK: Captain, that could be exactly what they want us to do. Tow the robot and limit our available power. We're carrying the extra mass of the first ship's cargo, and now we have the second one in tow. That requires a great deal of power we won't be able to use in battle.
KIRK: That seems logical.
SPOCK: Thank you.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, do you have any ideas?
SPOCK: We could always throw tribbles at them.
KIRK: I thought Vulcans didn't have a sense of humor.
SPOCK: We don't, Captain.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got broken cargo containers in all the corridors, and the tribbles are eating the grain.
KIRK: Get Cyrano Jones up here.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Any sign of Captain Koloth's ship?
SULU: Nothing, sir.
KIRK: Keep scanning.
JONES: Captain Kirk, what can I do for you? Some Spican flame gems perhaps?
KIRK: Your tribbles are all over my ship. My security men can't find them all.
JONES: You need better security men, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Jones, you are in enough trouble already.
JONES: Captain, a harmless little tribble. What can they hurt?
KIRK: Harmless, maybe. Little? In any case, they're eating the quintrotriticale.
JONES: The what?
KIRK: The wheat!
JONES: They're hungry, Captain.
KIRK: So are the people on Sherman's Planet. A little tribble doesn't eat much, a big tribble does. And these are growing. Jones, is this the ecological sabotage the Klingons are so mad about?
SULU: Captain, the Klingons are coming back.
KIRK: Speak of the devil.
MCCOY: Jim, there's something about these tribbles.
KIRK: Later, Bones. Mister Sulu, release the robot ship. We'll swing back and pick it up later. Deflector shields up. Stand by photon torpedoes. And all noncombatants off the Bridge.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Klingon ship under command of Captain Koloth is forcing us into a battle for custody of Cyrano Jones for reasons still unknown.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Contact in thirty seconds.
KIRK: Ready photon torpedoes. Fire one.
SULU: One fired.
SCOTT: That's done it. We're caught.
UHURA: Message coming in, sir.
KOLOTH (screen): Ah, Captain Kirk. We'll take control of your ship now.
KIRK: Not if I can help it.
KOLOTH (screen): I want your prisoner.
KIRK: Much as I hate to admit it, Captain Koloth, Cyrano Jones is a citizen of the Federation and entitled to Federation protection. I must, much as it pains me, refuse your request.
KOLOTH (screen): It is not a request. Don't force me to take steps that we will both regret.
KIRK: Close channel, Lieutenant.
UHURA: With pleasure, sir.
SPOCK: Aren't you going to sit down, sir?
KIRK: I think I'll stand.

[Klingon Bridge]
KOLOTH: Implement boarding plan C.
KORAX: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Scott, we're going to implement Emergency defense plan B.
SCOTT: Plan B, sir?
KIRK: Mister Spock suggested it.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Emergency plan B complete, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant. Captain Koloth, are you ready to release my ship?
KOLOTH (screen): Release your ship? Kirk, you are monotonous.
KIRK: You don't know yet, do you?
KOLOTH (screen): Know what?
KIRK: That we have immobilized your ship worse than you have immobilized ours.
KOLOTH (screen): I doubt that. Our instruments report nothing except some undue transporter activity and Kirk? Tribbles?
KIRK: Tribbles.

[Klingon Bridge]
KOLOTH: Kirk, Cyrano Jones took a Klingon genetic construct, an artificial creature from one of our planets. We must have it back. It was designed to be a tribble predator. We are prepared to go to war if we have to.

[Bridge]
KIRK: You must have others.
KOLOTH (screen): This was the first one, Kirk. We need it in order to grow others from it. We need it to get rid of the tribbles

[Klingon Bridge]
KOLOTH: Jones sold before they completely overrun the planet.

[Bridge]
KIRK: And that's all you want?
KOLOTH (screen): Jones is not that important.

[Klingon Bridge]
KOLOTH: We must have the glommer.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Oh, well, if that's all. Mister Scott, transport the glommer over to the Klingon ship.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
JONES: You can't do this to me. Under space salvage laws, he's mine.
SCOTT: A planetary surface is not covered by space salvage laws. But if you want the little beastie that bad, Mister Jones, we'll transport you over with it.
JONES: I withdraw my claim.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Well, at least we can report the stasis field is not as effective a weapon as we thought. The power drain is too high and takes too long for the Klingon ship to recover to make it practical.
SPOCK: Agreed, Captain. Tribbles appear to be a much more effective weapon.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Jones' genetic engineering was very slipshod. Jim. He may have kept the tribbles from reproducing, but he didn't slow down their metabolism. You see, they're not just giant tribbles, they're colonies.

[Klingon ship]
KORAX: Captain, the engine room is filled with tribble.
KOLOTH: Well, we can do something about that. Attack.
KOLOTH: He did it to us again! That tin-plated, overbearing excuse for a starship captain did it to us again. Blast that thing.
KORAX: Any other orders, sir?
KOLOTH: Yes. Don't do that again. Ever.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: A simple shot of neoethylene will fix everything. The tribble colonies will break down into their individual units with a slower metabolic rate. And these really will be safe tribbles now.
JONES: Er, what about the Klingons?
MCCOY: Well, unless they treat their tribbles too, that ship isn't going to be big enough for all of them.
KIRK: Say, you didn't get this one, Bones.
MCCOY: Oh yes I did.
KIRK: But it hasn't Someday I'll learn.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. But you've got to admit, if we've got to have tribbles, it's best if all our tribbles are little ones.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5554.4. The Enterprise has been ordered to survey a new planet recently discovered at the periphery of the galaxy.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Life readings are confused, sir. I can't decipher them.
SPOCK: There is something else, Captain. I'm getting a reading of some kind of power from that building)
SULU: Well, now. What's this? Captain! Captain!
KIRK: What is it, Mister Sulu?
SULU: You're going to have to see this yourself, sir.
KIRK: What is that thing?
SULU: It's a mobile plant. When it stops, it's roots bore back into the ground. They're all over the place. I think it likes me.
KIRK: We always encourage our officers to make friends with the natives.
SPOCK: Captain, the power reading now includes an electronic probe. We are being scanned.
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Stay alert. Mister Sulu, stay here.
SULU: Ow! Must have been a thorn.

[Building]
SPOCK: The probe originates in this wall, as does an incredibly powerful force shield. It appears to be an amalgam of devices designed to defend and protect the city and this building in particular.
MCCOY: Jim, I'm picking up a humanoid reading of incredible strength. It's as if he
SULU (voiceover): Argh!

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: He's been poisoned. Unknown toxin.
KIRK: Can you help him?
MCCOY: I can't get a correlation with any known poison.
KIRK: Maybe the ship's medical computers.
MCCOY: He's got about one minute to live unless I can find an answer. Maybe dylovene. No good. Takes too much time to work if it does work.
KIRK: Maybe a stronger shot.
AGMAR: That won't be necessary.
KIRK: Who are you?
AGMAR: I am called Agmar. I believe we can help.
KIRK: Are you getting a reading on them?
SPOCK: A moment, Captain. The results are unclear.
MCCOY: Now, just a minute. I can't let you, whatever you are, inject him with some alien dew drop!
AGMAR: To wait is to assure your friend's death. I must proceed.
KIRK: Bones, let them help.
SPOCK: Captain, these beings are of botanical origin.
MCCOY: Intelligent plants?
SPOCK: So it would seem.
AGMAR: It is an antidote quickly absorbed. He should begin to respond momentarily.
KIRK: Thank you.
AGMAR: Welcome to the planet Phylos.
KIRK: I'm Captain James Kirk. Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy and Mister Sulu. You seem to have been expecting us.
AGMAR: Our instruments have tracked and scanned you. We did not wish to reveal ourselves immediately. We are a peaceful race and we have a fear of aliens.
KIRK: What happened to him?
AGMAR: He was bitten by the Retlaw plant. It is deadly only if unattended.
KIRK: Your medication worked quickly.
AGMAR: A minor achievement.
MCCOY: Minor? Our science doesn't have anything that works that fast. Yours must be incredible. The toxin level is decreasing fast. Body readings up to normal. How is it you knew your antidote would work on a human?
AGMAR: There have been humanoid aliens here before.
SPOCK: Your method of communication
AGMAR: A voder, or translator. Most efficient.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Agmar, but I don't like puzzles. Where are the rest of your people?
AGMAR: Come. I will show you.

[Building]
AGMAR: Our people.
SPOCK: Nerve tissue. Mass density is exceptionally high. Readings indicate the beings used almost seventy percent of their brains. A very high ratio.
KIRK: Your ancestors?
AGMAR: No, only the generation before us.
KIRK: Then, what happened?
AGMAR: A human came. He brought sickness and death. But he also worked to save us from his disease.
MCCOY: There are evidences of gram-positive bacteria. It's carried by humanoids without ill effect, but staphylococcus strains don't seem to be native to this planet. It must have been like a plague.
AGMAR: We had no way of knowing what was happening.
KIRK: You were alive then?
AGMAR: Very young.
SPOCK: Plant life, Captain. Primitive and aggressive.
SULU: They won't work on any setting, sir.
AGMAR: There is a weapons deactivator in effect here. Your destructive machines will have no effect.
MCCOY: I think it's after you, Jim.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
MCCOY: Captain!
SULU: What do you think they'll do with us, sir?
KIRK: Something tells me we've just been used as a diversionary tactic. Look.
AGMAR: I'm sorry, Captain Kirk, but there was no other way.
KIRK: What are you talking about? Where have they taken Spock?
AGMAR: He has been chosen to serve a greater cause. The Master has searched many years to find a specimen like Spock. And now, all the worlds of the galaxy will share in the beauty of peace and harmony.
KIRK: So help me, if you don't tell me where Spock has been taken
OTHERS: The Master. Praise to the Master. The Master, our Savior. Savior, our Master.
KIRK: Another plant?
MCCOY: No, definitely human, Jim.
STAVOS: I am Doctor Stavos Keniclius Five. Welcome to Phylos, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Where is Spock?
STAVOS: He is mine. The essence of him is mine. Return to your ship. Here is your communicator. Go back to your ship.
KIRK: Not without my First Officer.
STAVOS: I am sorry, Captain. You will leave now or suffer the consequences.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Beam us up, Scotty.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5554.8. We have come upon one of the most fascinating discoveries we have ever seen. Plant life of extraordinary intelligence and technology. However, they have captured Mister Spock, apparently under the orders of a human named Keniclius. Lieutenant Uhura is trying to locate any reference to such a man in order to unravel the mystery of this giant human.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Anything, Mister Sulu?
SULU: We haven't been able to pick up any human life form readings, sir. Spock and Keniclius must be somewhere our sensors can't penetrate.
KIRK: What about the Phylosians?
SULU: I had to adjust for the fact that they're plant life forms. We're registering the lesser ones like the Swoopers in abundance. No sign of Agmar and the other four.
KIRK: Agmar said something about a weapons deactivator. Mister Sulu, lock ship's phasers on that laboratory building. Use a wide area stun setting.
SULU: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, how are you coming with that information on Keniclius?
UHURA: Nothing current, Captain. I may have found something in the history banks. I'll have it in a moment.
KIRK: Keep trying, Lieutenant.
SULU: Phasers locked on and ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire phasers.
SULU: Firing. No effect, Captain. Phaser stun was neutralized at a distance of one thousand meters above the area.
KIRK: Which means our weapons are useless, and we have no alternative but to go back down there and try to rescue Spock without them.
SULU: I'd hate to resort to clubs and knives.
KIRK: There may be something more effective, Mister Sulu. Kirk to Engineering. Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): Here, sir.
KIRK: How's that special equipment coming along?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: My engineers are working on it now, sir. You'll have it within the hour.
KIRK (voiceover): Very well, Mister Scott. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I have the information now, sir. I'll put it on the main screen.
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Bones?
MCCOY: One of my great great granddaddies, way back, had the finest garden in the South. Had to scramble around a little bit to find the materials, but I've got his recipe brewing now.
COMPUTER: Working. From Earth history file. Stavos Keniclius. Earth scientist, period, Eugenics Wars.
COMPUTER: Planned to clone perfect specimen prototype into master race. Concept considered anti-humanistic. Banned from community. Disappeared. No evidence of death. No further data.
MCCOY: There used to be a story about a modern Diogenes wandering the galaxy looking for someone special.
KIRK: Someone special. A perfect specimen, perhaps. Yes, I've heard it too.
MCCOY: It couldn't be Keniclius. He'd be over two hundred and fifty years old.
KIRK: Not if he cloned a new copy of himself every so often to carry on the search. Remember, he said he was Keniclius Five.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: It seems incredible that a man could take a few cells from his body and reproduce himself from them time after time. But that seems to be exactly what we're dealing with in the giant human Keniclius.
SULU: I hope these things work.
SCOTT: Well, the equipment's guaranteed, but I have my doubts about the stuff inside. A strange way to handle aliens.
KIRK: These are strange aliens we're fighting. Scotty, as soon as we beam down, I want you to leave orbit. If they think we've gone, they won't be scanning the surface. Give us thirty minutes.
SCOTT: Aye, sir, but I don't like it.
KIRK: Neither do I, but it appears to be necessary. Energize.

[Planet surface]
SULU: No indication of a scan. I don't think they know we're here.
KIRK: Let's go.
MCCOY: I'm not sure I can take too much of this.
SULU: They're almost mindless, Doctor. They seem to attack primarily as a reflex action. It's clear now.
SULU: I can't believe it.
KIRK: Incredible.
MCCOY: Looks like they're getting ready to go on a trip.
KIRK: But where? To what purpose? The number of ships indicates a mass migration. Or invasion.
SULU: Agmar said they were a peaceful people.
MCCOY: Sure they are, now. But what about before?
KIRK: You could have a point, Bones. Those ships, the city. The Phylosians built a technology possibly greater than we animal species did.
MCCOY: The ships look like they never got off the ground. Could be the disease Keniclius accidentally brought here swept the planet before they could do whatever they were going to do.
KIRK: Any indication of Keniclius or Spock?
SULU: No, sir. Only the Phylosians.
KIRK: Well, followers can be led. Let's hope we can be as persuasive as Keniclius.

[Hangar]
KIRK: Agmar, we don't want to hurt you, but we must have Spock back.
AGMAR: I do not think that is possible. The Vulcan-human blend of wisdom, sense of order, durability and strength is the finest the Master has ever found. We are pleased Spock will carry on our work.
KIRK: Carry on your work?
AGMAR: We are the last of a dying people, Captain. Once we had a great mission. Then disease decimated us. We few are the frail remnant of what survived. Our spore cells have been destroyed. There will be no more of our kind.
MCCOY: What if something happens to Spock or the Master?
AGMAR: There will always be a master. But come, you are worried about your friend. I will show you he is safe and in good hands.
SULU: Just like that, Captain?
KIRK: So it would appear, Mister Sulu. All the same, keep that bag handy.
AGMAR: The way is though here, gentlemen.

[Tunnel]
AGMAR: We sprang from the soil, Captain. These tunnels were once part of our home. This will serve to illuminate our way.
SULU: No wonder we couldn't find Spock. The walls are six hundred times denser than lead, in addition to the surface force field.
KIRK: Did you hear something?
MCCOY: What?
KIRK: I'm not sure.
AGMAR: Not much further now, Captain.
KIRK: There it is again. A flapping sound. Agmar!
SULU: Use the belt lights!
KIRK: They don't operate. Agmar!
KIRK: Run. We've got to find some light. We can't do anything unless we can see what we're fighting. Don't stop. Try to stay together.
MCCOY: Jim, up ahead.
KIRK: I see it. I see it. Keep going.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: He's dying. Something's happened to his brain. Electrical activity decreasing.
STAVOS: It's too late, Captain Kirk! In a few minutes your friend will be gone. But as Keniclius One lives on in each of his clones, so will Mister Spock. Behold, gentlemen, the dawning of a new era, the salvation of a galaxy! Spock Two!
KIRK: Get ready.
SULU: Captain, I'm out. The chemical sprayer is empty.
MCCOY: Mine too, Jim.
KIRK: Wait, listen.
MCCOY: Maybe they're waiting for the mist to clear. Well, how about that. Great granddaddy's weed spray still works.
KIRK: Never mind that. We've got to get Spock out of here before Keniclius returns. Scott should have the Enterprise back by now. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Nothing. Must be these blasted walls again. Kirk to Enterprise.
MCCOY: It's no use, Jim. He'll be dead in a few minutes. His mind is gone. He no longer thinks. This machine has drained his mind somehow.
STAVOS: More than just drained. It's been transferred, relocated into the mechanism itself. I can duplicate exact physiological structure. I cannot duplicate that which is learned. Just as my predecessor transferred his knowledge to me through his apparatus, I have done that with Mister Spock and the first of his clones.
KIRK: You talk about creating life with your clones, but you have to murder to do it. Come on.
KIRK: Out of my way, mister. That's an order.
MCCOY: I don't think he understands. His mind is still trying to assimilate all the knowledge it's been fed.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Keep trying, Lieutenant. We've got to make contact with the Captain.
UHURA: It's no use, Mister Scott. I can't get through.
SCOTT: Except for environmental systems, I want the entire power load of this ship redirected into a tight beam transmission. If we can break through the shielding, we can reach the Captain.
UHURA: Mister Scott, you're risking a total drain of our dilithium crystals. To maintain communication we would have to burn out all our reserves.
SCOTT: And don't I know it, lass. But we must speak to the Captain.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: He's coming out of it, Jim. He's becoming conscious and aware.
KIRK: Spock, what is the logic in letting a man die for the sake of creating his duplicate? Explain it to me, sir. Explain it to me.

[Bridge]
UHURA: All power sources locked in, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Then throw the switch, Lieutenant.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: Vulcans do not condone the meaningless death of any being. Spock's death is meaningless if it is only to create a giant version of himself.
STAVOS: It is not just a duplicate. He will be the beginning of a master race. He
KIRK: That's our ship calling, Spock. You answer them.
MCCOY: Spock is slipping away. There isn't much time left.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I'm sure we're getting through, but they're not acknowledging.
SCOTT: Keep trying.
UHURA: Mister Scott, we're near the drain point on the dilithium crystals now. Our reserves
SCOTT: Keep trying.

[Laboratory]
G SPOCK: Commander Spock here.
UHURA (voiceover): Oh, thank heaven. Mister Spock, tell the Captain I've located more information about Keniclius.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I had the library computer check out all known writings by Keniclius. They are obscure, but there is a recurring theme in his later essays about using his master race as a peace-keeping force throughout the galaxy.

[Laboratory]
UHURA (voiceover): That was why Keniclius wanted a perfect specimen. I have to sign off. We've reached power drain threshold.

[Bridge]
UHURA: That's what I call close, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Let's hope it was information they could use.

[Laboratory]
KIRK: All this has been a waste, Keniclius. There's been peace in the Federation for over one hundred years.
STAVOS: That is a lie. What about the Eugenics Wars? The galactic wars? What of the depredations of the Romulans, the Klingons and the Kzinti? An army of Spock duplicates is necessary to subdue them.
KIRK: You're the fifth Keniclius. What makes you so sure what you believe is truth isn't just old news? Your predecessors could have been out of touch with our advances for two centuries.
AGMAR: The Master always speaks the truth.
MCCOY: I can understand why you think Keniclius is the master if he saved you from dying, but why do you agree with his plan of a super race?
AGMAR: Our fleet of ships which you saw was to be launched for the same purpose the Master intends. Disease struck us before we could carry out our own plan to impose peace on a galaxy that knew none.
KIRK: We already have peace in the Federation. It wasn't imposed, it was agreed upon. You have no need of Spock. Reverse the effects of that machine and let us take him.
STAVOS: No! The mold must be broken.
MCCOY: Jim, Spock's almost gone.
KIRK: If you have Spock's mind, you'll know the Vulcan symbol called the IDIC.
G SPOCK: Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations. Symbolizing the elements that create truth and beauty.
KIRK: Could an army of Spocks impose peace and Phylosian philosophy on any other beings in defiance of the IDIC concept?
G SPOCK: I do not believe so.
KIRK: Reverse the machine, Keniclius.
AGMAR: No! Our dream must not be allowed to die.
KIRK: Murderer! You've killed Spock!
G SPOCK: To persist in this behavior, Captain, is to negate the eloquence of your previous argument. May I suggest a more constructive way?
G SPOCK: My mind to your mind, my thoughts to your thoughts.
SULU: The Vulcan mind touch.
SPOCK: I am pleasantly surprised at your capacity for deductive reasoning, Captain. When you are not being bellicose, there appears to be no end to your arsenal of formidable talents.
KIRK: Spock. Spock, you old
G SPOCK: And you needn't worry, Captain Kirk, about a master race. There will be no militia, no other Spocks.
STAVOS: But what of my work? If all I have lived for is already done, if the times I feared are gone, what is to become of me? There appears to be no reason why I should continue to exist.
SPOCK: I would suggest Doctor Keniclius remain on Phylos with my duplicate. The concerted efforts of both scientists may yet achieve a rebirth of the Phylosian civilisation and enable them to contribute to the Federation.
G SPOCK: My thoughts exactly, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: So one might assume, Mister Spock.
KIRK: How does that sound to you, Keniclius? To bring life is at least as important as bringing peace.
STAVOS: I would be honored. If I will be allowed.
KIRK: I'll report your work here. I think the Federation will understand.
KIRK: By the way, Mister Sulu, any chance of teaching me that body throw? Could come in handy sometime.
SULU: I don't know, sir. It isn't just physical, you know. You have to be inscrutable.
KIRK: Inscrutable? Sulu, you're the most scrutable man I know.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5373.4. We are in orbit around the planet of the time vortex, the focus of all the timelines of our galaxy. Our mission is to assist a team of historians in the investigation of Federation history.

[Guardian of Forever]
ALEEK: The travelers are returning.
GREY: Cease review.
KIRK: What a trip, Bones. Orion, at the dawn of its civilisation. Even just observing, not touching anything for fear of changing some piece of history. What's the matter? Bones?
MCCOY: Who's he, Jim?
KIRK: What do you mean, who's he? You know Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Afraid I don't, Jim.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise.
KIRK: Beam up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Captain, I was expecting there to be one of the historians with you. But a Vulcan?
KIRK: Explain yourself, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Sir?
KIRK: I don't know what's going on, but the first officer of this ship will be treated with respect.
THELIN: Captain, I assure you no one has ever treated me otherwise.
KIRK: Who are you?
MCCOY: Oh, I thought sure you'd know Thelin by now, Jim. He's been your first officer for five years.
SPOCK: Captain, I have come to the conclusion that this is not a game.
KIRK: No, but if it's reality, what happened?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. When we were in the time vortex, something appears to have changed the present as we know it. No one aboard recognizes Mister Spock. The only answer is that the past was somehow altered.

[Briefing room]
ERIKSON: Nothing. I can't find one thing we did when we were in the vortex that could possibly have affected the future.
KIRK: But something was changed.
SPOCK: It seems, Captain, I am the only one affected. The mission, the ship, the crew, except for myself, remain the same.
KIRK: But I know who you are, and no one else aboard does. While we were in Orion's past, the time revision that took place here didn't affect me. Kirk here.
BATES (screen): Sir, we've checked the Starfleet records Commander Thelin asked for.
KIRK: Your findings?
BATES (screen): There is no Vulcan named Spock serving with the Starfleet in any capacity.
THELIN: Did you also research the Vulcan family history requested?
BATES (screen): Yes, sir. I can relay that to your screen. Sarek of Vulcan. Ambassador to seventeen Federation planets in the past thirty years.
SPOCK: That is not correct.
KIRK: It is in this case.
SPOCK: I wish to ask a question. What of Sarek's family, his wife and son?
BATES (voiceover): Amanda, wife of Sarek. Born on Earth as Amanda Grayson. The couple separated after the death of their son. The wife was killed in a shuttle accident at Lunaport on her way home to Earth. Ambassador Sarek has not remarried.
SPOCK: My mother. The son, what was his name and age when he died?
BATES (screen): Spock. Age seven.

[Guardian of Forever]
KIRK: If we didn't change anything while we were in the time vortex, someone else must have. Was the Guardian in use while we were gone?
GREY: Yes, but it was nothing unusual. We were scanning recent Vulcan history.
SPOCK: What time period?
GREY: Twenty to thirty Vulcan years past.
KIRK: Was there any notation on the death of Ambassador Sarek's son?
ALEEK: Yes. The boy is recorded as dying during the maturity test.
SPOCK: The kahs-wan, a survival test traditional for young males.
ALEEK: The date was
SPOCK: The twentieth day of Tasmeen.
THELIN: How do you know this?
SPOCK: That was the day my cousin saved my life in the desert when I was attacked by a wild animal.
KIRK: This cousin, what was his name?
SPOCK: I do not recall clearly. I was very young. He called himself Selek. He was visiting us, but I never saw him after that.
KIRK: Spock, did Selek look like you do now?
SPOCK: I believe so, Captain. And I know what you're thinking. It was I who saved myself that other time.
KIRK: But this time, you were in Orion's past with us when the historians had the time vortex replay Vulcan history. You couldn't be in two places at once, so you died as a boy. Guardian! Did you hear that?
GUARDIAN: I hear all.
KIRK: Is it possible for Spock to return to Vulcan and repair the timeline that has been broken so all is the same as before?
GUARDIAN: It is possible if no other major factor is changed.
SPOCK: I do not remember everything. There is a vague memory from a child's point of view, but the details are not clear.
KIRK: You have to remember, for you and your mother to live.
SPOCK: Yes. I will need a Vulcan desert soft suit and boots, and a small selection of streetwear circa 8877 Vulcan years. The carry bag should be of the same period.
KIRK: You've got it. I'll order the wardrobe section to prepare it now.
THELIN: This change in the timeline will put you in my place, yet I am not aggrieved.
SPOCK: Andorians are not known for their charity.
THELIN: True. A warrior race has few sympathies, but one we do possess is for family. In your time plane, you will live and so will your mother. That is valuable. Live long and prosper in your world, Commander Spock.
SPOCK: And you in yours, Commander Thelin.
KIRK: Nice to know the crew is efficient in this time plane, too. Spock.
SPOCK: I wish to visit the planet Vulcan, thirty years past, the month of Tasmeen. Location, near the city of ShirKahr.
GUARDIAN: The time and place are ready to receive you. Personal log, stardate 5373.5, subjective time. I have returned to the past in an attempt to restore the future. I am home and I had almost forgotten its beauty.

[Vulcan]
BOY: Earther! Barbarian! Emotional Earther! You're a Terran, Spock. You could never be a true Vulcan.
Y SPOCK: That is not true. My father
BOY 2: Your father brought shame to Vulcan. He married a human.
BOY: You haven't even mastered a simple Vulcan neck pinch yet, Earther.
SAREK: My apologies, visitor. I regret you were witness to that unfortunate display of emotion on the part of my son.
SPOCK: In the family, all is silence. No more will be said of it. Live long and prosper, Sarek of Vulcan.
SAREK: Peace and long life. You are of my family?
SPOCK: My name is Selek, an humble cousin descended of T'Pel and Sasak. I am journeying to the family shrine to honor our gods.
SAREK: You have a long way to go. Will you break your journey with us for a while, Cousin?
SPOCK: I am honored. Is something wrong, Cousin?
SAREK: No, no. It was only that it seemed I know you.
SPOCK: A family resemblance to our forefathers, no doubt.
SAREK: No doubt. Well, come then. Allow me to welcome you to my home.

[Courtyard]
SAREK: Spock. Spock, being Vulcan means following disciplines and philosophies that are difficult and demanding of both mind and body.
Y SPOCK: Yes, father.
SAREK: You constantly display your emotions. You have even been seen fighting in the street.
Y SPOCK: Yes, father.
SAREK: The time draws near when you will have to decide whether you will follow Vulcan or human philosophy. Vulcan offers much. No war, no crime. Order, logic and control in place of raw emotions and instinct. Once on the path you choose, you cannot turn back.
Y SPOCK: Yes, father.

[Sarek's house]
AMANDA: I hope you were not disturbed by my son's behavior, Selek.
SPOCK: No, my lady Amanda. Any child has much to learn. My young cousin has a more difficult road to travel than others.
AMANDA: You seem to understand him better than my husband.
SPOCK: It is difficult for a father to bear less than perfection in his son. Spock will find his way.
AMANDA: I hops so. I respect Vulcan and all its traditions, but it is a demanding life.
SPOCK: The boy goes through the kahs-wan ordeal soon, does he not?
AMANDA: Next month.
SPOCK: But tomorrow is the twentieth day of Tasmeen.
AMANDA: Yes. Is something wrong?
SPOCK: I seem to have lost track of time.

[Courtyard]
SAREK: Soon you will undergo your test of adulthood in the desert. To survive for ten days without food, water or weapon on Vulcan's Forge will demand more of you than anything ever has. To fail once is not a disgrace for others. If you fail, there will be those who will call you a coward all your life. I do not expect you to fail.
Y SPOCK: What if I do, father?
SAREK: There is no need to ask that question. You will not disappoint me. Not if your heart and spirit are Vulcan.
Y SPOCK: I-Chaya. what if I'm not a true Vulcan like they say?

[Bedroom]
SPOCK: Personal log, stardate 5373.9, subjective time. The timeline seems to have changed again. Yet I do not believe I have done anything to disrupt it. My memory is quite clear regarding the date my cousin saved my life, and it is tomorrow. The kahs-wan ordeal is an ancient rite of warrior days. When Vulcans turned to logic, they reasoned they must maintain the tests of courage and strength to keep pure logic from making them weak and helpless.

[Courtyard]
Y SPOCK: No, I-Chaya, this is my own test. I have to do it alone. Stay.

[Bedroom]
SPOCK: Of course. I should have remembered. It wasn't the actual kahs-wan ordeal.

[Desert]
Y SPOCK: I-Chaya, go home. You are too old and too fat for this. That's how you always get around mother, but it does not work with me. Go home, I-Chaya. Personal log. The boy Spock should be moving toward the Llangon Mountains. He, I had much to prove to myself. The personal ordeal upon which I embarked was meant to determine the course my life would take.

[Sarek's house]
AMANDA: Sarek, our son and the visitor are gone.
SAREK: This cousin, Selek, something strange about him.
AMANDA: You don't think he'd harm Spock?
SAREK: I don't know, Amanda. I will notify the authorities and ask them to initiate a search.

[Mountains]
Y SPOCK: I-Chaya, good boy.
SPOCK: I suggest we move away from this area before the le-matya regains consciousness.
Y SPOCK: Thank you for helping me and I-Chaya.
SPOCK: It was my duty, Spock.
Y SPOCK: Mother says you should always say thank you.
SPOCK: The lady Amanda is known for her graciousness.
Y SPOCK: Do you think I'll ever be able to do that neck pinch as well as you?
SPOCK: I dare say you will. Come now.
Y SPOCK: You followed me. Why?
SPOCK: I suspected you would go. You are worried about the kahs-wan ordeal.
Y SPOCK: I had to see if I could do it. A personal test. I cannot fail.
SPOCK: That is your father's wish?
Y SPOCK: Yes, and my mother's. They, they confuse me. Father wants me to do things his way, and Mother says I should. But then she goes
SPOCK: She is a human woman, with strong emotion and sensitivities. She embarrasses you with those traits, and you are afraid when you see them in yourself.
Y SPOCK: How did you know?
SPOCK: There is some human blood in my family line. It is not fatal. What you do not yet understand, Spock, is that Vulcans do not lack emotion. It is only that ours is controlled. Logic offers a serenity humans seldom experience in full. We have emotions but we deal with them and do not let them control us.
Y SPOCK: I-Chaya!
SPOCK: The le-matya struck him with its poison claws in the fight.
Y SPOCK: Is he dying?
SPOCK: Yes. Personal log. Something unexpected has again occurred. The sehlat, I-Chaya, was struck by the poisonous claws of the le-matya he fought. He is dying, unless we can find a healer, and soon.

[Mountains]
SPOCK: We cannot get him back to the city to a healer. He is too large to move.
Y SPOCK: Then what?
SPOCK: You are a Vulcan. What is the logical thing to do?
Y SPOCK: I can bring a healer here.
SPOCK: It is a long journey across the desert. There are many dangers. I will go.
Y SPOCK: No. This is my duty. No one else can do it for me. Will you stay with him?
SPOCK: This did not happen before. My life decision was made without the sacrifice of yours, old friend. I know there is pain. I can help a little. Sleep now.

[Healer's house]
HEALER: The hour is late. I trust your errand is urgent?
Y SPOCK: Most urgent, Healer. My sehlat fought a le-matya in the Llangon foothills. He suffered a small wound, but the poison of its claws is working in him now. Please, you must come with me. He needs your healing.
HEALER: You are Spock, son of Sarek, are you not?
Y SPOCK: Yes, Healer.
HEALER: I have heard of you. I have heard of a tendency toward what humans call practical jokes.
Y SPOCK: I did that once, two years ago. Healer, I would not call you out unless a life was in danger. Have you ever heard the son of Sarek was a liar?
HEALER: No. That has never been said. Very well. Wait here and I will get my medicines.
Y SPOCK: Healer, please hurry.

[Mountains]
SPOCK: It will not be long now, old friend.
SPOCK: You made the desert crossing most efficiently. You will not disappoint Sarek in your kahs-wan.
Y SPOCK: I wanted only to help I-Chaya. He was my father's before he was mine. To lose him
SPOCK: A Vulcan would face such a loss without tears.
Y SPOCK: How?
SPOCK: By understanding every life comes to an end when time demands it. Loss of life is to be mourned but only if the life was wasted. I-Chaya's was not.
HEALER: Spock.
Y SPOCK: Yes, sir?
HEALER: It has been too long. No antidote known will save his life.
Y SPOCK: Is there nothing you can do?
HEALER: I can prolong his life, but he will be in pain. Or I can release him from life. I will need your decision. He is your pet.
Y SPOCK: Release him. It is fitting he dies with peace and dignity.

[Sarek's house]
Y SPOCK: I regret having troubled you in any way, but it was necessary.
SAREK: I trust you can explain why it was necessary?
Y SPOCK: There was a decision to be made. A direction for my life had to be chosen. I chose Vulcan.
SAREK: It is good then. You have comported yourself with honor. We will see I-Chaya is brought home from the mountains.
Y SPOCK: Thank you, father. If you will excuse me now, I have some business to conduct with schoolmates.
SAREK: Business?
Y SPOCK: A demonstration of the Vulcan neck pinch. Our cousin taught me.
SPOCK: I too must make my farewells. Your hospitality has been most kind, but I must journey on.
SAREK: You saved my son's life, Selek. There is no way I can fully repay you for that.
SPOCK: Try to understand your son, Sarek of Vulcan. It will be repayment enough for me.
SAREK: A strange request, but I will honor it. My home is yours if you pass this way again.
SPOCK: I think I shall not. Peace and long life.
SAREK: Live long and prosper, cousin.

[Guardian of Forever]
GUARDIAN: The traveler is returning.
KIRK: I sent the others up to the ship. What happened?
SPOCK: One small thing was changed this time. A pet died.
KIRK: A pet? Well, that wouldn't mean much in the course of time.
SPOCK: It might, to some.
KIRK: Enterprise, this is the Captain. Two to beam up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Two to beam up. Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: Well, well, well. So you two finally got back from your vacation. While you've been running all over Orion's creation, I've been running the annual crew physicals. You're the last ones.
KIRK: Welcome aboard, Mister Spock.
MCCOY: Never mind the chit-chat. I've got my medical scanners all set up for a Vulcan. I have to recalibrate every time I run a physical on you, Spock.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, you do not know your good fortune. IF the times were different, you would have to recalibrate for an Andorian.
MCCOY: What's that supposed to mean? If that was supposed to be a joke, Spock, I have to remind you Vulcans don't tell jokes.
SPOCK: Times change, Doctor. Times change.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5221.3. On outward course beyond the fringe of our galaxy towards Questar M-17, a source of mysterious radio emissions. Mission, starcharting.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Situation, Mister Scott?
SCOTT: We've picked up speed, sir, rapidly. I've cut back power, but we continue to gain momentum.
KIRK: Mister Sulu?
SULU: She's not answering the helm, sir. Two minutes right ascension off course and drifting farther, Captain.
KIRK: Stand by to reverse course.
SULU: Standing by, sir.
KIRK: Reverse course.
SPOCK: I can only describe it as hypergravity, Captain, more powerful than any we've ever encountered. It's dragging the Enterprise toward it.
KIRK: Why aren't our sensors picking it up? Forward scanners, Mister Sulu.
UHURA: Captain, that's the source of the radio emissions.
SPOCK: Negative star mass. Spectra analysis, imploded matter, but every reading on it is negative.
SULU: Captain, we're still gaining speed.
KIRK: Full reverse thrust.
SULU: No good, sir. We're still falling toward it.
KIRK: How much time do we have?
SPOCK: Impact in ninety three seconds. Ninety two. Ninety one.
UHURA: Captain, there's another signal. Listen.
SPOCK: Forty seconds, Captain. Thirty nine, thirty eight.
KIRK: Sulu, flank speed ahead. Our only chance is to try to get into orbit around that thing.
SULU: Aye, aye, Captain.
SPOCK: Nine seconds. Eight, seven. Orbital velocity.
KIRK: Steady as she goes, Mister Sulu. Maintain orbit.
SULU: Aye, aye, Captain.
MCCOY: If its pull is this strong, Jim, how do we get out of orbit?
KIRK: Slingshot effect, Mister Spock? Do we have enough power?
SPOCK: I'll need some time for the computations, Captain.
UHURA: I'm getting that radio sound again, sir. Nine seconds right ascension from galactic plane, dead ahead and closing fast. It's on the viewscreen now, sir.
KIRK: Put us alongside, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
MCCOY: It's a starship like nothing I've ever seen. The size of it.
KIRK: It's been damaged. I'll bet she was pulled in like we were.
UHURA: It's coming from that ship, Captain.
SPOCK: Confirmed, Captain, but it isn't possible. That ship is dead. Temperature is absolute zero. There is no thermal reading to support life aboard her, and no energy store to send radio messages. Nothing except a slight magnetic flux reading which could be normal for the ship's metal.
KIRK: You're sure, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Probability point nine nine seven, Captain.
KIRK: Can you identify that metal, or the design of the ship?
SPOCK: Negative to both, Captain. Unknown alloy, harder and lighter than any registered metal. It is not a recorded galactic starship design. Retro analysis of the ship's spectra dates it as having been in orbit here for slightly more than three hundred million years.
UHURA: It's beautiful. What kind of people could have built it, to touch even a starship with grace and beauty?
KIRK: A civilisation that advanced three hundred million years ago before life even emerged on Earth.
MCCOY: Barely an instant in eternity, Jim.
KIRK: Mister Spock, any indication of that ship's power source?
SPOCK: No, Captain, but this far from a G1 star, it is logical to assume they had some kind of warp drive.
KIRK: We'll board her, Mister Spock. Scotty, Bones, you'll come with us. We'll need life-support belts. Mister Sulu, have the Transporter room stand by.
SULU: Yes, sir.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Ready, Captain.
KIRK: Activate life-support belts. Energize.

[Alien ship]
SPOCK: The hexagonal shape of the windows suggests a similarity to natural insect designs of Earth, the honeycombs of bees. The individual cells are shaped precisely like this.
SCOTT: Would you look at this now? This metal, it isn't cast or rolled. It was drawn into filaments and spun.
KIRK: Like a spider spins his web.
SPOCK: A lighter and stronger material than anything we have now.
KIRK: Look, every pod, they've all been burst open.
SCOTT: Aye, from the inside, from the looks of them.
MCCOY: Must have been some accident to get almost every pod.
SPOCK: Accidents seldom have such system, Doctor McCoy. I believe we must consider the alternative possibility that the crew of this ship destroyed her themselves.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log. We have beamed aboard the alien ship found orbiting a strange dead star. The Enterprise is recording all data for the log and a full report later.

[Alien ship]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura here.

[Alien ship]
KIRK: Lieutenant, are you still getting that radio signal from this ship?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Negative, Captain. It stopped transmitting when you beamed aboard.

[Alien ship]
KIRK: All right. Lock on us with the transporter and be ready to transport. We're going inside.
UHURA (voiceover): Transporter beam on and locked. Standing by.

[Alien ship module]
KIRK: What do you make of it, Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, it's registering energy. Very little, but building.
KIRK: You mean it's functioning after all the milleniums this ship has been here?
SPOCK: The wands are accumulators, receptors to attract energy, motion, sound, light, heat, every kind of energy around them.
SCOTT: The structure of the ship, those huge arches, thrusting up. The whole ship is designed to receive and store energy.
MCCOY: Gives me the creeps. I feel like something's watching us.
SCOTT: I feel it too, Captain.
SPOCK: A physiological symptom of latent primal superstition, the fear of primitive people confronting something unknown to them.
KIRK: Compared to the beings that built this ship, we are primitive people, even you, Mister Spock. All right, let's keep going.

[Machine shop]
KIRK: Tricorder analysis, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Artificial gravity is in effect here, Captain. Both air and gravity within two points of Earth normal.
KIRK: Enterprise, do you read me? Sulu?
SPOCK: No use, Captain. Some sort of interference has been set up.
SCOTT: We can cut our way out of here.
KIRK: No energy registering. Something's drained them.
MCCOY: You mean we're trapped here? No communication, nothing?
KIRK: For the moment.
KIRK: This is, was, the control center of the starship. These must be control and navigational instruments.
SPOCK: The source of the interference is here, Captain. It's not part of the normal equipment. It's like something they jury-rigged during an emergency.
SCOTT: Something to shield this room. But shield it from what?
SPOCK: Possibly from whatever had come aboard their ship.
SCOTT: But nothing, no form of life could survive three hundred million years.
SPOCK: Quite right, Mister Scott. No known form of life.
MCCOY: Jim, the door.
SPOCK: Something is trying to get in. The field of interference is reacting against the magnetic flux lines, Captain.
KIRK: Will it hold?
SPOCK: If the energy stays at that level.
MCCOY: What is it?
KIRK: I'm not sure, but I think
KIRK: It could be a ship's log or a warning. It seems to keep repeating.
MCCOY: A message from three hundred million years ago?
SPOCK: It is possible that this much of their technology survived.
KIRK: Anything?
SPOCK: I may be able to get a translation.
MCCOY: Hurry up, Spock.
SPOCK: Patience, Doctor.
ALIEN (screen): Danger. Danger. The dead star, we are being drawn to it. Rather than carry this malevolent life form to other worlds, we have decided to destroy our own ship. There is no other answer. If you understand this message, you are protected only for this moment in this room. This thing it wants
KIRK: Get out of here! Hurry!

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Located them right after that explosion, Mister Sulu. We're locked on and beaming them aboard.

[Bridge]
SULU: Good work, Mister Kyle. I thought we lost them when we were cut off so long.

[Transporter room]
KYLE: Piece of cake, sir. Here they come now.
KYLE: Captain, something's beamed aboard with you.
KIRK: Transport it back out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Status?
UHURA: Sickbay reports no injuries to crew, sir.
SCOTT: No damage to hull or engines, Captain.
SPOCK: Automatic bridge defense system on and prepared, sir.
KIRK: So, we're all just fine, but whatever was on that ship used our transporter beam to come aboard with us, and now it's here.
SCOTT: That alien commander, sir. The message said that they had to destroy their own ship.
KIRK: Until we learn more about it, Scotty, perhaps we should be ready to do the same. Take two of your men and arm the self-destruct device in the Engineering core.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock, any change in ship's readings?
SPOCK: We're registering a slightly higher than normal magnetic flux. Not dangerous, but the level isn't constant. It seems to fluctuate, a steady, almost pulsing rhythm.
KIRK: Like the beating of a heart.
UHURA: Bridge, Lieutenant. What? Captain, decks five and six report shutdown of all life-support systems. They've gone to life-support belts, manual override is not responding.
SPOCK: Trouble in the Engineering core, sir.
KIRK: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): Bones, get down to the Engineering core on the double.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Get on those life-support systems now.

[Engineering]
MCCOY: The force field of his belt won't hold that weight for long, Jim.
KIRK: Override systems, Mister Spock. Open the core hatch.
SCOTT: It's no use, sir. The mechanism is frozen. They've already tried.
SPOCK: Something's jammed the circuits. They're magnetized.
KIRK: All right, get the cutter beams on that hatch. Move.
ENGINEER: Yes, sir.
SCOTT: I thank you, sir.
SULU (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Kirk. Something's activating the ship's phaser banks. They're locking on the alien starship.

[Bridge]
SULU: Phaser banks were off, Captain. They activated themselves.
KIRK: And mutual override did not work?
SULU: No, sir.
SPOCK: Exactly like the Engineering controls and the life-support systems on decks five and six.
SCOTT: Sir, we cannot get into the core.
KIRK: The cutter beams.
SCOTT: Drained of all energy, sir.
UHURA: Sir, Cargo holds three, four and five just shut down life-support systems.
SPOCK: Power out on all but key levels, Captain. High magnetic flux reading.
UHURA: Captain Kirk, the ship's computers. Something's going through every storage bank. It seems to be taking control of the whole ship.
KIRK: Spock, can you rig a low-frequency shield like the one on the alien ship, on our navigation console?
SPOCK: It would have a very small field.
KIRK: Do it.
SPOCK: It's activated, Captain, but only an area three meters square.
KIRK: Do you get a magnetic flux reading there now?
SPOCK: Negative, Captain.
MCCOY: Jim, you don't think that's going to help us? Whatever that thing is, it survived millennia in a dead hulk. All it has to do is outlast us and just take over.
KIRK: No. It must be held by the magnetic force of the dead star, and it needs a starship to break free and a crew to man it.
GREEN: You are correct, Captain James T Kirk, and I have the starship I've waited for so long, so terribly long.
SPOCK: It has absorbed the memory banks, Captain, all of them.
GREEN: You will now remove the static shield from the navigation console, Captain James T Kirk.
KIRK: You have shut down life-support systems and endangered members of my crew. Restore those systems first.
GREEN: All nonessential systems are extinguished. You will obey me.
KIRK: And if I refuse?
GREEN: Obey me!
SPOCK: Captain!
GREEN: Obey me!
KIRK: Stop! You'll hurt him.
GREEN: Remove the static shied from the warp drive controls! Do it now!
SPOCK: No, Captain.
KIRK: I'll obey. Let him go.
GREEN: Repair the warp drive controls. Obey me!
KIRK: Mister Scott, start repairs. Install the auxiliary controls.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain.
SPOCK: I'm all right, Captain.
KIRK: What are we dealing with, Spock?
SPOCK: High rank probabilities, Captain. It is a magnetic organism without mass, but capable of symbiotic relationship with a host body, a starship for instance. It is a form of primal energy, and it can utilize the electronic control systems of a starship like the mind of a man uses the neural control systems of the human body. It has become the Enterprise, and we are only life-support organisms in its body like the white corpuscles in human blood. And Captain, the magnetic flux readings are higher. It is growing stronger, building itself.
KIRK: A slingshot effect to yank us out of orbit. Can you compute it in your mind? If we try to use ship's computers
SPOCK: The alien will know. I believe I can, Captain. I will need to aid Mister Scott.
KIRK: The engineer will need aid from my first officer to complete repairs. Is that permitted? I guess it is.
GREEN: You will leave this orbit and plot course to galactic coordinates zero three six point two three one.
SULU: That's the heart of the galaxy, Captain.
KIRK: Plot the course, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Captain, this symbiont can reproduce itself by mitosis and take over every starship we encounter. It can control computer centers, whole planets.
KIRK: I'm aware of that, Mister Spock.
GREEN: Complete repairs! Obey me!
SCOTT: Auxiliary controls ready to activate, Captain.
KIRK: The auxiliary warp drive controls can only be operated manually.
GREEN: That is correct. You will activate the manual controls. Obey!
KIRK: Controls activated.
SULU: Captain, we're dropping out of orbit! We're falling into the dead sun.
GREEN: Apply full power! Obey me!
GREEN: No! Accelerate! Do not destroy the ship! Obey me! Obey! Obey!
KIRK: Standby to activate warp drive unit.
GREEN: No! Don't!
KIRK: Activate warp drive!
SPOCK: Activated, Captain.
GREEN: Please, don't!
KIRK: Is it gone?
SPOCK: Affirmative. It fled the ship when it thought we would crash into the dead star.
GREEN (voiceover): Don't leave me alone. Please, please. So lonely.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5221.8. Final entry. Resuming outward course beyond the farthest star of our galaxy. Mission, starcharting.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5143.3. While patrolling the edge of the Romulan Neutral Zone, the Enterprise has changed course to assist a one-man vessel which has fallen victim to a meteor swarm. Sensors indicate the occupant is still alive.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Have you identified the vessel, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Yes Captain, but you may find it difficult to believe. The vessel is registered to Carter Winston.
MCCOY: That's impossible, Spock. Carter Winston's been missing over five years.
MCCOY: Incredible. It is him.
KIRK: Carter Winston.
CARTER: It seems you gentlemen know me.
KIRK: There are few in the Federation who wouldn't recognize your face, sir. I'm Captain James Kirk, commanding this vessel. Mister Spock, my first officer, Doctor McCoy, senior medical officer.
MCCOY: I'm especially honored to meet you, Mister Winston. My daughter was going to school on Cerberus about ten years ago when the crop failure occurred. The entire population would've starved, Jim, if Winston here hadn't used his personal fortune to bring in enough food and goods to carry them through the crisis.
KIRK: One of the many stories I've heard about you, Mister Winston. It's an honor for all of us to have you aboard.
SPOCK: There is one person aboard who should be especially happy to learn you are alive, Mister Winston. Lieutenant Anne Nored of our security detail.
CARTER: My fiancee? Anne's aboard this starship?
SPOCK: We will notify her as soon as we've verified your credentials, Mister Winston. If you have your identity tapes with you
MCCOY: Spock! Of all the cold-blooded, inhospitable requests I've ever heard.
SPOCK: I believe our regulations are quite clear, Doctor. An immediate identity check and medical examination are a standard requirement at this point.
KIRK: Spock is right as usual, Bones.
CARTER: And I understand, of course. My credentials, Captain. The Enterprise has rescued a living legend, the foremost space trader of our time. Carter Winston has acquired a dozen fortunes only to use his wealth time and again to assist Federation colonies in times of need or disaster.

[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Library computer, verify record tape on Winston, Carter.
COMPUTER: Working. Identification positive. Fingerprints positive. Voice print positive. All licenses and registration in order.
KIRK: Visual display of owner. Checks out. It seems we'll have a distinguished passenger with us for a while.

[Sickbay]
CARTER: Is there some problem, Doctor?
MCCOY: This instrument seems a little off. I've never gotten quite this reading from a human before.
CARTER: Are you suggesting I'm not quite human, Doctor?
MCCOY: Of course not. Anyway, it's just a fraction off normal. It's probably the instrument. They need to be recalibrated every so often.
CHAPEL: The Captain is inquiring if the examination is completed, Doctor.
MCCOY: Yes, I suppose so.
CHAPEL: And Lieutenant Nored is waiting to see Mister Winston once you've certified his medical condition.
MCCOY: Well, I certainly don't want to keep you any longer from your fiancee. Show her in.
ANNE: Oh, Carter.
CARTER: I'm sorry, Anne. I never thought we would meet again.
ANNE: Carter, what is it?
CARTER: When I left on that last trip, I fully intended to come back and marry you, but my ship was disabled and I crashed on Vendor. I'm told I was lucky I survived.
ANNE: But you did survive. You're alive, and we're together again.
CARTER: Anne, I'm changed. First there was surgery, skin graft, regrowth of bone. After they put me together, they assigned one of their people to me, and he nursed me back to health.
ANNE: But, you said you've changed. How? I don't see any change.
CARTER: It's over between us, Anne. I'm sorry, I can't explain why but, I can't marry you. Ever.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Take the conn, Mister Spock. I'll be in my cabin completing the report on Winston's rescue.

[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Come.
CARTER: I hope I'm not intruding, Captain.
KIRK: No, please come in, Mister Winston.
CARTER: I've been down to examine my ship. They stowed it in the shuttlebay.
KIRK: Yes, I'm afraid it's pretty badly damaged. It's hardly worth salvaging right now. I've had our engineering officer, Mister Scott, examine it and make a report. It's here somewhere. He doesn't think there's anything left in your ship except scrap value.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Well, I can't find anything wrong with these instruments, Doctor. They check out, but the readings are still slightly off. What about the rest of the tests on Winston?
MCCOY: Well, some are off and some aren't. It has to be our error. Come on. We'll start from the beginning and this time we're going to find the answer.

[Bridge]
SULU: Weren't you going to your cabin, sir?
KIRK: Mister Sulu, lay in a direct course for Ratar Three.
SULU: Through the Romulan Neutral Zone, sir?
KIRK: That was the order, helmsman.
SULU: But sir, if we're caught there, the Romulans can confiscate the ship. The treaty
KIRK: I know the terms of the treaty, Mister Sulu, and I believe you heard my order.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, the extreme long-range sensors show something in the Zone. At this distance, I cannot determine precisely what it is. It could be a trading vessel like Winston's. But it does not seem prudent to take the risk of trespass into the Zone.
KIRK: Mister Spock, I've spoken to Winston on this at some length. He has assured me it is absolutely vital to get to Ratar Three in the shortest possible time. The survival of the entire planetary population may depend on it.
SPOCK: An admirable mission, Captain, but if we endanger our ship
KIRK: I wouldn't have ordered it if I didn't feel it safe, Spock. Winston says his sensors detected no Romulans when he came through the Zone last week. I'm satisfied he's telling the truth, and his word is considered good. Isn't it?
SPOCK: That has been his reputation.
SULU: Course laid in, sir.
KIRK: Execute.
SULU: On course, sir.
KIRK: You have the conn, Mister Spock. Ship's log, stardate 5148.7. First Officer Spock recording. The Captain's course change has taken us deep into the Romulan Neutral Zone.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I'll take the conn, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Is something wrong, Captain?
KIRK: I'm not sure. I went down to my quarters to dictate the accident report and I seem to have fallen asleep. I've never done that before.
SPOCK: Perhaps you needed the rest. We are on course through the Neutral Zone, sir.
KIRK: The Neutral Zone? We have no authorisation to enter it. Did you order a course change, Spock?
SPOCK: No, sir. You did.
KIRK: Ridiculous. No captain of the Starfleet would do that unless it was a matter of life and death.
SPOCK: I believe that was the reason you gave, Captain.
SULU (screen): Weren't you going to your cabin, sir?
KIRK (screen): Mister Sulu, lay in a direct course for Ratar Three.
SULU (screen): Through the Romulan Neutral Zone, sir?
KIRK (screen): That was an order, helmsman.
KIRK: That's enough, Spock. Mister Scott, take the conn. Spock. Mister Sulu, plot a course to take the Enterprise out of the Neutral Zone at warp eight. Lieutenant M'Ress, put the ship on Yellow Alert.

[Turbolift]
KIRK: Mister Spock, I don't remember giving those orders. I left the Bridge, went to my quarters and fell asleep. That's all.
SPOCK: Perhaps Doctor McCoy should examine you, Captain.
KIRK: Definitely. I've become subject to blackouts, I'm a possible danger to the safety of the ship. I can't allow that.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Oh, Winston. I was just finishing the tests I ran on you. I don't think
ANNE: Doctor McCoy?
MCCOY: Can I help you?
ANNE: I don't know, Doctor. I just thought. Well, I have to talk to someone.
MCCOY: Oh now, let me guess. It's you and Carter Winston. He told me a little about it when I examined him.
ANNE: Doctor, what do I do? I still love him.
MCCOY: Well, I'm sure he'd like to feel the same way about you, Anne, but that may be impossible. Five years, that's a long time. People change.
ANNE: I haven't. What can I do?
MCCOY: Well, if he asked you to forget him, I think you should try to do just that. Do you think he'd want to deceive you?
ANNE: Oh no. He's the gentlest, most thoughtful man I've ever known.
MCCOY: Yes, but, my dear, if he doesn't want you and he has asked you to forget him, then I suggest you take that as an honest concern for you and do it. Forget Winston.
ANNE: Thank you, Doctor. I'll consider your advice.
MCCOY: What can I do for you, Captain?
KIRK: I want a complete medical examination, Bones. Something's just happened
MCCOY: I'm afraid I'll have to make it later today, Captain. I have too many tests to process right now.
SPOCK: Carter Winston's?
MCCOY: That one's done. Tested out normal.
SPOCK: Are you sure there is no possibility you made an error?
MCCOY: Well, there's always that possibility. I'll go over them again if you like.
KIRK: No, that won't be necessary. I'll come by later for that examination. Let's go, Spock.

[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, did you notice Doctor McCoy's reaction when I asked him if there was any possibility he might have made an error?
KIRK: He said there's always that possibility. And that's not like Bones at all. Come on.

[McCoy's office]
SPOCK: There are not many places one could hide in here.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: I must have taken a little nap.
SPOCK: Doctor, you are a man of curious habits, but I have never known you to nap on the laboratory floor.
KIRK: There's something wrong about this room.
KIRK: All right, Winston. You can come out now. I suggest you show yourself, Winston, or whatever you are.
MCCOY: Did you say I'm a man of curious habits? Jim's talking to a table.
SPOCK: I don't think so, Doctor.
KIRK: There used to be only two examining tables in this room. Now there are three.
SPOCK: I just realized that.
KIRK: This is a vial of Orientine acid, Winston. It will burn through almost anything but this crystal. If you've never seen it work, I'll demonstrate on you.
MCCOY: I saw that, but I don't believe it.
SPOCK: A Vendorian, Doctor. Their planet is quarantined, and few people ever do see them. Their ability to rearrange their molecular structure into anything with the same general size and mass and their practice of deceit as a way of life puts them off limits.
KIRK: Mister Spock, get a security team down here on the double.
MCCOY: Jim!
SPOCK: Spock to Bridge. Put me on ship's audio.

[Corridor]
SPOCK (voiceover): All security teams, intruder alert. Repeat, intruder alert. The intruder is a Vendorian capable of assuming any shape or identity. (It changes into Carter Winston and looks for somewhere to hide. A phaser is pointed at it)
CARTER: Anne, what are you doing?
ANNE: My job. It isn't hard to guess who the intruder is. You're the only stranger aboard, Carter.
KIRK: Lieutenant Nored, you could've stopped him. Why didn't you fire?
ANNE: I, I couldn't. I knew he had to be the intruder, Captain, but I couldn't harm the image of the man I loved.
KIRK: Lieutenant, he is not the man you loved. Carter Winston is dead.
ANNE: I know that too, now.
SPOCK: Security teams report no sign of the alien on this deck, Captain.
KIRK: I was afraid of that. Once out of our sight, he can become anyone or anything aboard this ship.
KIRK: Bridge, this is the Captain. What's happened?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Two Romulan battle cruisers, Captain. And they're heading right for us.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Due to interference by the alien Vendorian aboard, the Enterprise has been detected violating the Romulan Neutral Zone. By the terms of our treaty, the Romulans have a legal right to seize and impound the Enterprise. To complicate matters, we have not been able to apprehend the Vendorian responsible for putting us in this position.

[Bridge]
ROMULAN (screen): You appear to have a propensity for trespassing in the Neutral Zone, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: It was not deliberate, I assure you.
ROMULAN (screen): It never is. But the rules of the treaty are clear. To contravene them would mean war. You will surrender your ship, Captain. We will release you and your crew at the nearest outpost that guards the Neutral Zone.
KIRK: I'd like a few minutes to inform my crew.
ROMULAN (screen): Very well. Five minutes, no more.
KIRK: Kirk to Security. What's the status on the search for the Vendorian?
ANNE (voiceover): No progress yet. We have all decks patrolled, but no one has seen him.
KIRK: Carry on, Lieutenant. The Romulans were expecting us, Mister Spock. That wreck of Winston's ship was the bait to get a Romulan spy onboard. And what better spy than a Vendorian who can shape at will. When I went down to my cabin, he must have put me out long enough for him to return to the Bridge and order the course change.
SPOCK: It would seem so.
KIRK: Open a hailing frequency Lieutenant M'Ress.
M'RESS: Hailing frequency open, sir. They're waiting for us.
ROMULAN (screen): I assume you are now ready to turn your ship over to us, Captain.
KIRK: Wrong assumption.
ROMULAN (screen): Captain, you are outnumbered, outgunned and in the wrong. I admire your courage, but I
KIRK: I have no choice, Commander. You lured me here in direct violation of the treaty.
ROMULAN (screen): Lured, Captain? How could we lure a Starfleet vessel into the Neutral Zone?
KIRK: Through the use of a spy using the human form of Carter Winston.
ROMULAN (screen): A spy? Come now, Captain. Your imagination is creative but obviously out of control.
KIRK: You used a Vendorian, which, I might add, is also a violation of the treaty.
ROMULAN (screen): Your five minutes are up, Captain. Either surrender your ship or prepare to fight.
KIRK: I will not surrender my ship.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: What are you doing?

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, our deflector shields are coming down.
KIRK: Bridge to Engineering. Scotty, what's happened to the shields?

[Engineering]
GABLER: Mister Scott isn't here, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Get those shields

[Bridge]
KIRK: Up again now.
GABLER (voiceover): I can't, sir.
SULU: Hangar doors on the shuttlecraft deck are opening, sir. The Vendorian must be trying to escape.
KIRK: We need him. Override the controls and shut those doors.
SULU: Doors closing, sir.
KIRK: Spock, take the conn. Talk to the Romulans. Try to stall them. And send a security team to the hangar deck. I'll be in Engineering.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. I came up here to check the backup systems, and there was a crewman taking this panel apart. That's all I remember.
KIRK: How long will it take to fix?
SCOTT: Two hours, at least.
KIRK: Get on it.

[Corridor]
ANNE: You're not getting past me this time. I've learned my lesson.
CARTER: Yes. He said you were like that, practical as well as warm and lovely. You're everything he said you were.
ANNE: Carter? What did he say?
CARTER: Many things. Some were only feelings, deep feelings he couldn't always express. He did love you.
ANNE: How did he die?
CARTER: Winston crashed on our planet, and he was tended by a Vendorian. Me. He lived for almost a year before his body ceased to function.
ANNE: You are so much like him, his voice, his mannerisms.
CARTER: That is the way of our people. The longer we stay in another's form, the more we take on its memory, emotion, attitudes. Not totally, but a great deal as time passes.
ANNE: He did say he loved me.
CARTER: As I do. In a sense, I feel some of the emotions he felt. His love for you was very strong. Because I was there, it did not end when he died.
ANNE: Carter.
CARTER: Anne, this is what I am. Can you love this? You see why I told you it would be best to forget me?
KIRK: But unfortunately, I can't.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Direct hit, Captain. Damage to the secondary propulsion system. The commander has apparently decided to fight.
M'RESS: The Romulan commander is signaling, sir. I'll put it on the screen.
ROMULAN (screen): Captain Kirk, all our main batteries are trained on you. To resist would be useless and wasteful of lives. Do you surrender?
KIRK: Without deflectors, we're just a clay pigeon for them.
SPOCK: Practicality does suggest capitulation, Captain.
SULU: Captain, the deflector shields are coming up again.
KIRK: That's only one shield.
SULU: Yes, sir, but it is between us and the Romulans.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, aim for the propulsion units of the lead Romulan vessel. Prepare to fire phasers and photon torpedoes in combination.
SULU: Phasers and torpedoes ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
SPOCK: Second vessel firing now, sir.
KIRK: Lock on second target.
SULU: Ready, Captain.
KIRK: Fire.
SPOCK: Strange. We did no damage, but the Romulan is retreating anyway.
KIRK: They may believe we do have their spy. Scan the other vessel for damage, if you will, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Second vessel power supply out. Crew unharmed. They should be able to repair the ship in a few days.
KIRK: Good work, Mister Scott. That deflector shield went up just in time.
SCOTT: But sir, I haven't finished repairing the shield. I told you it'll take hours, and it will.
SPOCK: Interesting.
KIRK: Then what was? Winston.
SPOCK: It is not outside the realm of probability. If he could rearrange his own atoms to become an examination table, one would have to assume he could become a deflector shield.
SCOTT: Will someone tell me what's going on?
SCOTT: What manner of beastie is that?
SPOCK: Your deflector shield, Mister Scott.
ALIEN: I assume the danger to your ship is over.
KIRK: It is.
ALIEN: As it should be. I'm sorry if I endangered your vessel.
KIRK: Why did you do it?
ALIEN: Among my own people, I am a non-producer, useless. An outcast fit only to do those tasks of the lowest order. The Romulans offered me a life, something of value I could do. It is important to be of value to someone.
KIRK: What changed your mind about the Romulans?
ALIEN: It seems, Captain, that I am more Carter Winston than I knew. He loved life. He loved Anne. I couldn't allow the Romulans to harm any of you because of him.
KIRK: I understand.
ALIEN: What will happen to me now?
KIRK: You'll have to stand trial. But you did save the Enterprise from the Romulans, and I will recommend that be taken into consideration.
ALIEN: Thank you, Captain.
KIRK: In the meantime, I'm afraid I'll have to keep you under guard. I think we've had enough of that little trick.
ANNE: Captain, could you assign me that duty.
CARTER: But you've seem me. You know what I am.
ANNE: Form doesn't seem terribly important to me. As Carter Winston or even just part of him, there's a better life for you than anything the Romulans might offer. Can we talk about that?
CARTER: I don't know. I
KIRK: You have the guard detail, Lieutenant.
MCCOY: You caught him.
SPOCK: Acute observation, Doctor.
MCCOY: I'm glad to see him under guard, Jim. If he'd turned into a second Spock, it would've been too much to take.
SPOCK: Perhaps. But then two Doctor McCoys just might bring the level of medical efficiency on this ship up to acceptable levels.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5483.7. The Enterprise is en route through an unfamiliar sector of space where a series of Earth Federation ships have disappeared mysteriously during the last a hundred and fifty years. Recent joint discussions with the Klingon and Romulan Empires have revealed that a starship has disappeared in this sector precisely every twenty seven point three four six star years.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: If my calculations are correct, Captain, we have twenty seconds to go.
KIRK: Twenty seconds to what? That's what worries me. Lieutenant Uhura, place the ship on Yellow Alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Yellow Alert.
SPOCK: Five seconds. Four, three
UHURA: All stations report Yellow Alert status, sir. Captain, I'm getting some sort of subspace radio signal.
KIRK: Put it on ship's speaker.
UHURA: It's more like music than a message.
SPOCK: Captain, we are being probed.
KIRK: From where? Can you trace it?
SPOCK: The signal is coming from a star system twenty light years away.
KIRK: Can you identify it?
SPOCK: It is the Taurean system. A small star at the extreme edge of this sector.
KIRK: That's a powerful signal to reach here from that great a distance.
SCOTT: It seems to be calling us.
KIRK: Strange. Yes, I get the same feeling myself.
SPOCK: It does resemble a summons.
UHURA: I find no resemblance to a summons, Captain.
KIRK: Opinion noted. Set a course for the Taurean system, Lieutenant Arex. Warp factor seven.
CHAPEL: You wanted me, Lieutenant? Are you all right?
UHURA: I am. But I want you to observe the men here. It seemed to start when we picked up that signal, and it's gotten worse.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Like a Vulcan marriage drum. I am experiencing audio-visual suggestion, Captain.
KIRK: So am I.
KIRK: Dimensional visions. Any idea what's causing them, Spock?
SPOCK: Logically, we must assume they are created by the probe.
UHURA: Sir, what visions? We don't see anything.
KIRK: Miss Chapel, you don't see anything, either?
CHAPEL: No, sir.
KIRK: Take a medical reading, Nurse. Lieutenant Uhura, call Doctor McCoy to the Bridge.
UHURA: Sickbay, Doctor McCoy. Please report to the Bridge. Doctor McCoy? No response.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: Magnolias in blossom. Beautiful.

[Bridge]
UHURA: The signal's getting stronger, sir.
KIRK: Re-scan your sensor readings, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Readings are still inconclusive. It is odd that only the men are affected, Captain. I suggest
SCOTT: Ship's log, stardate 5483.8. Engineering Officer Scott in command. We are in orbit around planet two in the Taurean system. Probes and sensors indicate there was once a vast civilisation here. Lovely. Lovely. However, life readings are sparse and concentrated. Captain Kirk is beaming down with a scouting party to investigate.
UHURA: These figures just don't match up with Spock's. So far I count three sensor readings that are off.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Fantastic architecture. Only an incredibly advanced race could have built it.
CARVER: You want all those routine readings, sir.
KIRK: No, I don't think so, Carver. Spock will do it.
MCCOY: There is something compelling about it.
KIRK: Yes, I feel it too, Bones.
SPOCK: Captain, the urgency of our feeling suggests visual compulsion. I advise remaining at a distance until I can determine the extent of its influence. The life forms are indicated in its center.
KIRK: There's no apparent danger, Spock. Let's go.

[Temple]
THEELA: They are here.
ALL: Oh, such wondrous ones. They honor us.
THEELA: I am Theela, the Head Female. Welcome, James Kirk, Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock. Welcome.
SPOCK: The form is humanoid, but there are many internal differences. Their bodies appear to function on an unusual psychokinesis level.
MCCOY: First time I ever admired a body function.
KIRK: How do you know our names?
THEELA: The Opto-aud revealed you to us.
SPOCK: Tonal control. Fascinating.
THEELA: The Opto-aud will reveal whatever is asked, Mister Spock. We are grateful that you heard the signal, Captain.
KIRK: The signal? A distress call, wasn't it?
THEELA: I will explain its meaning later. We have prepared a feast to celebrate your presence.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5483.9. The beauty of this place is unequaled. It's the answer to all of man's dreams. Exquisite in every way. We're here to investigate, to investigate... The women radiate delight.

[Temple]
MCCOY: These are the most beautiful women in the galaxy. But where are the men?
THEELA: They occupy another compound.
KIRK: That makes sense.
WOMAN: Mister Spock.
KIRK: Spock
THEELA: Take them to the slumber chambers. They must rest.
MCCOY: Probably that nectar. It's potent as Saurian brandy.

[Slumber chambers]
MCCOY: Jim, Jim!

[Science lab]
CHAPEL: Results of every scan run by the women science teams. If there is an answer, it's here.
COMPUTER: Computer on.
CHAPEL: Summation of medical, biological, astrophysical scans.
COMPUTER: Working. Probe directed at ship from planet surface is severely enervating to humanoid males. Exposure causes increasing weakness. Possibly to point of death.
UHURA: Lieutenant Uhura to Security Officer Davison.
DAVISON (voiceover): Davison here.
UHURA: I want an all-woman security team on every transporter immediately. No one is to transport down to the planet unless it is on my order.
DAVISON (voiceover): Aye, aye, Lieutenant.
CHAPEL: What are you doing?
UHURA: Taking command of this ship.

[Temple]
SPOCK: We must return to our duties aboard ship.
KIRK: Yes. Duties. That's it. Duties. I have
THEELA: You cannot leave, Mister Spock. You are needed here. Soon, all the men on your ship will feel as you do. They are all needed, and they will join us.
KIRK: We must go.
THEELA: Obstruct them.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I dream of ... the gala lads ... can I trow
UHURA: Mister Scott, as senior Lieutenant, I'm taking responsibility for the safety of this ship.
SCOTT: Very thoughtful of you, love.
UHURA: Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant Uhura recording. Due to Chief Engineering Officer Scott's euphoric state of mind, I am assuming command of the Enterprise, I accept full responsibility for my action. A detailed account will be recorded later. Nurse Chapel, until further notice, you will act as Chief Medical Officer.
CHAPEL: Yes, Lieutenant.

[Temple]
KIRK: They've gone.
SPOCK: Yes. Your medikit, Doctor. It may contain something which will help us.
MCCOY: I wonder why they let me keep it.
SPOCK: Perhaps they saw no practical use in it.
MCCOY: Cortropine. Could help. It's a strong stimulant.
KIRK: Go ahead.
KIRK: Locked.
SPOCK: If the lock is magnetized, this may disrupt its field.
THEELA: Assistance! Assistance!

[Planet surface]
KIRK: The urn. It's the only place.
THEELA: This way.
WOMAN: They are not here, Theela.

[Urn]
THEELA (voiceover): Come. They might have returned to where they landed.
KIRK: The headbands. Look at them.
SPOCK: I have noticed that their glow diminishes when the women are not present. They could be polarized conductors which transfer our vital energy to the bodies of the women.
KIRK: You mean they're actually draining our life forces?
SPOCK: That would account for our rapid aging, Captain. And our weakness. If you recall, the women seemed listless at first. But as our strength has failed, they have become more energetic and vital.
KIRK: How long do we have, Spock?
SPOCK: We seem to be aging ten years per day, Captain.
MCCOY: Ten years? In four days, we'll be dead!
KIRK: And useless to them. Theela said the other men of the crew would join us here. They'll be lured into the same trap. We've got to contact the ship.
SPOCK: I have retained more strength than any of you. My internal structure is different, Captain, my life span longer. It is wiser if I go to the temple to try and find the communicators and contact the ship.

[Temple]
SPOCK: The equipment belonging to the men of the Enterprise, where is it?
SPOCK: Spock to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise.
SPOCK: Request rescue party. All-female. Repeat. All-female. All Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant Uhura commanding. We have assembled an all-female rescue party in # accordance with Mister Spock's request.

[Temple]
THEELA: Greetings. I am Theela. Head Female of this compound.
UHURA: Lieutenant Uhura of the Starship Enterprise. We're here to locate Captain Kirk.
THEELA: Return to your ship. You are not wanted here.
UHURA: Until we find Captain Kirk, we will not leave.
UHURA: Phasers on stun. Fire!
UHURA: Search the temple. Parties of two.

[Slumber chambers]
UHURA: No sign of them anywhere.
SPOCK (voiceover): Miss Chapel. Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: Wait.
UHURA: What is it?
CHAPEL: I heard Spock's voice.
SPOCK (voiceover): Christine.
CHAPEL: It is Spock. There must be a panel somewhere.
CHAPEL: Mister Spock!
UHURA: Spock, what happened?

[Urn]
KIRK: We've got to get out of here.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: Spock, Oh, Spock.
SPOCK: Instruct female engineer to divert ship's energy into deflector shields. Block probe.
CHAPEL: We tried that.
SPOCK: Use all ship's energy. Everything channeled to the shields. Hurry, Christine.

[Temple]
UHURA: Release Captain Kirk and his men or we will destroy your temple.
THEELA: Wait! I will tell you everything.
THEELA: The past. Reveal it.
THEELA: This is the race from whom we are descended. They came to this planet when our homeworld began to die. They built this place and all surrounding it. They did not know this planet drains humanoid energy. But the women's bodies developed a glandular secretion, enabling them to survive and to manipulate certain areas of the males' brains, influence their emotional senses. Ultimately, it drained the men, caused them to weaken and die.
THEELA: To survive, we must vitalise each twenty seven years of your time.
WOMAN: Instead, we are eternal prisoners. We neither age nor die. We are unable even to bear children.
UHURA: What about Captain Kirk and the others? Can the Opto-aud locate them?
THEELA: We shall see. The men of the Enterprise, reveal them.
UHURA: They're drowning! Where are they?
THEELA: The nearest water accumulation is many cusecs from here.
UHURA: That looks like a pool or a tub.
THEELA: It is the urn in the garden.

[Planet surface]
UHURA: Phasers on setting one. Fire.

[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: No results, Captain. We've tried everything we know.
SPOCK: Perhaps the transporter is the key.
MCCOY: Key to what?
SPOCK: Our restoration. It holds the molecular pattern of our original bodies when we beamed down to the planet.
KIRK: Spock. Can the transporter be programmed to re-pattern us as we were?
SPOCK: Possibly. But the odds against us are ninety nine point seven to one.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: We are on the surface, Mister Scott. Reprogram the transporter as previously directed.

[Transporter room]
CHAPEL: But this has never been done before. Suppose it fails?
SCOTT: Their patterns'll break up, scatter in space. Transporter reprogrammed, Mister Spock.
KIRK (voiceover): Beam us up, Scotty.
UHURA: Scotty, we're losing them!
KIRK: Did it work?
UHURA: You're more handsome than ever.

[Temple]
THEELA: Tell Captain Kirk we have kept the agreement.
UHURA: A crew of women will bring a ship back. You'll be transported to the first suitable planet.
THEELA: How quickly will we become as other women?
UHURA: Doctor McCoy says it should only take a few months.
THEELA: A life of hope. New learning. Perhaps love. Oh, it is a much better future than immortality.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5371.3. A huge cosmic cloud has been reported moving into the outer fringe of our galaxy. Nothing like it has ever been seen before. Starfleet Command has sent the Enterprise to investigate as we're the only vessel in the vicinity of the phenomenon. Our present position is in the Pallas Fourteen system, which contains Mantilles, the most remote inhabited planet in the entire Federation.

[Bridge]
SULU: We will intercept the cloud in the vicinity of Alondra, the outermost planet, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, we are now approaching sensor range of the cloud.
KIRK: Readings?
SPOCK: It seems to be of irregular shape, some eight hundred thousand kilometers across and about half that in depth.
AREX: It's immense. Twice the diameters of Saturn, Jupiter and Neptune together!
KIRK: Put up our present position, Lieutenant Arex.
AREX: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Reading, Spock?
SPOCK: This is very curious, Captain. It computes as a strange combination of matter and energy.
SULU: Captain, look.
AREX: Captain, Alondra has disappeared from navigation scan.
UHURA: The cloud could have come between us and the planet.
SPOCK: No, Lieutenant, the cloud has engulfed Alondra. Captain, the planet seems to be breaking up. Its mass is definitely growing smaller.
KIRK: Spock, is it possible the cloud consumes planets?
SPOCK: It seems a logical assumption, Captain.
SULU: Sir, the cloud is changing course.
KIRK: That's impossible.
AREX: The course change is verified, sir. The cloud is now moving directly toward the inhabited planet.
UHURA: But if it continues on that course
KIRK: Mantilles will die. Mister Sulu, increase speed to warp eight. Push it to the limit.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. At warp eight, we will intercept the cloud before it reaches the inhabited planet Mantilles. But we are uncertain what we can do to stop a matter-energy cloud which measures thousands of times more than our vessel.

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Jim, if we can't stop it, millions of people will die.
SPOCK: Perhaps more, Doctor. If planet annihilation is part of this thing's nature, it might seek them out as instinctively as an amoeba seeks out food. It may not consume only planets, but also stars. We do not know yet whether it has any selective ability, but it could be a thread to every planet in our galaxy.
KIRK: Bones, I need an expert psychological opinion. Do we dare tell the people on Mantilles, try to save a few who could get away?
MCCOY: How much time do they have?
AREX: Four hours, ten minutes, sir.
MCCOY: It's certain there'd be planetwide panic.
KIRK: Blind panic.
SPOCK: On the other hand, notifying them may still save some small fraction of the population, Captain.
MCCOY: Who's the governor of Mantilles, Jim?
KIRK: Bob Wesley. He left Starfleet for the governorship. He's no hysteric.
MCCOY: Then tell him.
SULU: Coming up on the cloud, sir. ETA five minutes, ten seconds.
KIRK: Thanks, Bones. Lieutenant Uhura, send a priority one call to Governor Wesley on Mantilles.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, I'm getting unusual readings on the chemical identity sensors.
KIRK: What kind?
SPOCK: Elements unknown in our periodic tables, Captain. I'm of the opinion this cloud has come from outside our galaxy.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Evasive action.
AREX: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Reverse full power.
SULU: Full reverse, sir.
MCCOY: It's still got us.
SPOCK: The streamers are a combination of koinoenergy, almost an ambiplasma with an unusually powerful attraction force.
KIRK: Prepare to fire all phasers into cloud mass.
SULU: Locked on. Phasers ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
SULU: Firing. No effect, Captain
SPOCK: The cloud appeared to absorb the phaser energy, Captain.
MCCOY: We're floating inside the cloud.
UHURA: All decks report considerable shaking up, but no damage, sir.
SULU: Captain, objects approaching on the bow.
KIRK: Deflector shields on.
AREX: Shields up and operating, sir.
SULU: More objects approaching aft, sir.
KIRK: Analysis, Spock?
SPOCK: The objects are some form of highly charged gaseous antimatter.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, the power drain on the shields is too heavy to hold for any length of time.
KIRK (voiceover): I know, Scotty.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, prepare the shields for an antimatter charge.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir. Engineering out.
SULU: Antimatter charge ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
KIRK: Double the charge.
SULU: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
KIRK: Well, Spock, any conclusions?
SPOCK: Only the beginning of a theory, Captain. It is possible this cloud in which we are entrapped is a living thing. The cloud is alive. Yes, Captain, its components appear similar to those found in living organisms.
KIRK: Bones, any opinion?
MCCOY: There's some resemblance. I don't know how much we can depend on it. But I'll tell you one thing. We have to get out of this area. Those mists out there are acting something like a macromorphase enzyme. If the shields don't stay up, the hull will be corroded and we'll all be broken down into nice digestible particles.
SPOCK: I am inclined to agree with the Doctor, Captain. The mass of the planet Alondra has been steadily growing smaller since we've been in here.
UHURA: Captain, I have a subspace radio message coming in from Governor Wesley of Mantilles.
KIRK: Transfer it to my quarters.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, use your scanners to assemble a diagram of the cloud's composition and feed it to the library computer.

[Kirk's quarters]
WESLEY (screen): Three and a half hours, Jim. That's not enough. Even if I had the ships available to totally evacuate the planet.
KIRK: You have time to save some people, Bob.
WESLEY (screen): That won't be long enough either, but it'll have to do.
KIRK: How are you going to choose?
WESLEY (screen): There is no choice, Jim. We'll save the children.

[Bridge]
KIRK: In three hours and twenty minutes the cloud will reach Mantilles. Millions of people will die. I need your help, gentlemen. Your analyzes?
SPOCK: If we assume the cloud is a living being, we must also assume it needs some kind of food to sustain itself.
KIRK: Agreed. Judging from the disappearance of Alondra, the cloud lives on the energy it converts from the planets it consumes.
SPOCK: Exactly. It is like a huge bull grazing here and there in the pasture of the universe.
KIRK: What about those blobs, Bones?
MCCOY: I think they perform the same function as teeth. They break up the larger chunks of matter for digestion.
KIRK: Lieutenant, let's see what the scanners have come up with on the cloud's composition.
KIRK: It seems to have some sort of anatomy. Arex, where are we on that chart?
AREX: Posting Enterprise position, sir.
KIRK: The opening where we were drawn in seems to have closed. But there's another opening up there on top.
MCCOY: If this thing does have some kind of digestive system, we don't stand much of a chance of making it that far.
AREX: Three hours, five minutes until the cloud reaches Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Arex. Since we appear to have only one way out, we're going to take it. Mister Sulu, takes us to that central core area.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: And if this thing does have a stomach, we just might be able to give it enough indigestion to make it turn away from Mantilles.
SULU: We've reached the entrance to the central core, Captain.
MCCOY: What do we do now, knock?
KIRK: No need, Bones. Here we go.
UHURA: What are those things?
MCCOY: I think we're in what corresponds to the small intestine. Those things growing out of the wall would be similar to villi.
KIRK: Villi?
MCCOY: The human small intestine is lined with millions of them, to absorb nutrients into the body.
SPOCK: Captain, those villi are antimatter. It the Enterprise touches one of them
KIRK: We'll explode. Mister Sulu, keep the deflectors up at all costs.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Incredible. They're destroyed on contact with the matter this thing takes in and then they regenerate immediately.
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Bridge.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): Keeping the deflectors this high

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Is putting an enormous strain on the engines, Captain. Especially the antimatter. What with the maximum power demands and all, the reserve is falling fast.

[Bridge]
KIRK: How much time do we have?
SCOTT (voiceover): Twenty one minutes, sir.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: But if the indicator goes below two anti-kilos, the engines won't regenerate.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Scott. Mister Arex, try to make your way through to the opening on the other side.
AREX: Yes, sir.
SULU: I can't hold it on course, sir. We're using all power.
KIRK: Increase deflector shields to maximum.
AREX: Screens to maximum, sir.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has only fifteen minutes left before her power is drained and we are left helpless.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: If we don't stop the power drain right now, that'll be the end of us.
KIRK: And if we do stop, we'll be drawn into one of the villi and the ship will explode.
SCOTT: Captain, you said that villi are antimatter. If we could get a piece of it, I could put it in the antimatter engine and it would regenerate. We'd have enough power for the engines and the shields to go on maximum again.
KIRK: We need both the matter and the antimatter engines regenerated.
SCOTT: Matter's no problem. We could beam aboard some of the planet chunks out there. And we can cut a piece of the antimatter villi with the tractor beams and transport it aboard like that.
KIRK: Bring it aboard? If the antimatter touches the inside of the ship or any of us, we'll be blown to bits.
SCOTT: I can rig a force field box that'll hold the villi suspended in the center. Then I can take it into the antimatter nacelle, put it into the regenerating chamber and release the forcefield by remote control.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Scotty, we've got ten minutes left.
SCOTT: The force field is holding. Let's go.

[Antimatter nacelle]
SCOTT: Well, that gives us two minutes. All right, Gabler, open it. Close it.
KIRK: Scotty, you've just given the Enterprise and Mantilles a chance to live.
SCOTT: Thank you, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Situation, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: The cloud is now only forty two minutes, fourteen seconds from Mantilles, Captain. And we have ascertained an important fact. This being does have a brain.
KIRK: Intelligent?
SPOCK: Impossible to say at this moment, Captain. It has made only one action which might be interpreted as intelligent. It changed course from Alondra toward Mantilles. But that could have been an involuntary response to the sensing of food.
KIRK: Where is the brain located?
SPOCK: That irregularly shaped object at the top of the core emanates considerable electrical activity.
MCCOY: It's pretty certain to be the brain, Jim. The functioning of the brain is basically electric.
KIRK: If we can reach it before the cloud gets to Mantilles, we might be able to save the planet. We'll use the photon torpedoes to destroy the brain.
SPOCK: Captain, this is a living creature. Starfleet regulations
KIRK: I know the regulations against the killing of intelligent life forms, Mister Spock. But we don't know this life form is intelligent. And we do know the people on Mantilles are doomed if we don't stop it. If I have to be a judge, I decide in favor of saving Mantilles.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5372.0. Spock and Uhura are using our sensors to prepare a detailed chart so we may determine targets for our photon torpedoes.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Am I doing the right thing, Bones? Once, I said, man rose above primitiveness by vowing 'I will not kill today.'
MCCOY: But you can't let this thing destroy over eighty million lives, either.
SPOCK: Captain, I have completed the analysis of the target area. Unfortunately, the brain is so vast, our entire offensive armament will not assure its destruction. However, the brain could be completely destroyed if we convert the entire ship to energy, aimed at the brain's cortex, and expend the energy in one mortal strike.
MCCOY: That sounds like you're telling us to blow up the ship.
SPOCK: I believe that is what I just said, Doctor.
KIRK: Your figures are specific and absolutely correct, of course? You're sure it will do the job?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Quite sure.
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering. Scott here.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Mister Scott, prepare the self-destruct mechanism in the Engineering core.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Computer control will be on the Bridge when it's time to trigger it.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir.
UHURA: Incoming message, sir. It's Governor Wesley of Mantilles.
KIRK: Put it on the viewscreen, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Go ahead, Governor.
WESLEY (screen): Jim.
KIRK: Bob. Is the evacuation proceeding?
WESLEY (screen): As best it can. There was some hysteria at the beginning, but most agreed to let the children be taken off first. But it's only five thousand children out of eighty two million people.
KIRK: I know.
WESLEY (screen): We can see the cloud approaching, Jim.
SULU: Thirty one minutes and four seconds to Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: Bob, where's Katie?
WESLEY (screen): Here, with me.
KIRK: Don't worry, Bon. She'll be all right. Goodbye.
WESLEY (screen): Goodbye, Jim.
MCCOY: Who's Katie?
KIRK: His daughter. She's eleven. Spock, is there any way we could establish whether or not it is definitely intelligent? Perhaps a Vulcan mind touch.
SPOCK: It would require physical contact, which is impossible, Captain. But I may be able to reach out with my mind. If we focus our sensors onto the cloud's synaptic electrical impulses, the input could be routed to the ship's computer for analysis into thought.
UHURA: I can link in the universal translator and put it on the audio system from here.
KIRK: Can you do it in time?
SPOCK: It is impossible to calculate, Captain. There are too many unknown factors. I can only try to accomplish the link. No more.
SULU: Twenty six minutes exactly to Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: All right, Spock. Get at it.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5372.1. The cloud will reach Mantilles in seven minutes. Spock has been working on the mechanics of reaching the cloud's thoughts, but I doubt if there's any time left. And even if we do establish contact, can we communicate with it and persuade it not to kill?

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The procedure is ready, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty.
SPOCK (voiceover): Ready, Captain. Listen to me. Listen to me. You are not alone here, there is someone else. Listen to me.
CLOUD (voiceover): What?
SPOCK (voiceover): You are not alone here, there is someone else. Listen to me. Listen to me.
CLOUD (voiceover): What you?
SPOCK (voiceover): I am another being.
CLOUD (voiceover): Being? Where?
SPOCK (voiceover): I am inside you.
CLOUD (voiceover): Inside? Explain. Within me?
SPOCK (voiceover): I am very small. And there are many of me. We are in a spaceship within you.
CLOUD (voiceover): Explain.
SPOCK (voiceover): A small thing which holds us all.
CLOUD (voiceover): Within me?
SPOCK (voiceover): Within you.
CLOUD (voiceover): Explain.
SPOCK (voiceover): We came to think to you. You consumed us. You thought we were food.
CLOUD (voiceover): Why? Why you think to me?
SPOCK (voiceover): Many of us live on the things you consume.
CLOUD (voiceover): Things I consume?
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes. Many of us are on the thing near you now. Do not consume it.
CLOUD (voiceover): Explain.
SPOCK (voiceover): The spherical thing ahead of you, the matter you intend to consume, sense it closely.
KIRK: How near is Mantilles, Mister Arex?
AREX: The cloud will envelope it in three minutes, twenty seconds, sir.
CLOUD (voiceover): Perceive many somethings. So small.
SPOCK (voiceover): They are beings. Alive, like you. They will all die if you consume that thing.
CLOUD (voiceover): Too small.
SPOCK (voiceover): Explain.
CLOUD (voiceover): I am small. Some things I perceive too small. Not alive beings.
SPOCK (voiceover): Listen to me. I'm going to come into your thoughts. And at the same time, you will come into mine.
CLOUD (voiceover): Necessary?
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes. Very.
CLOUD (voiceover): Proceed.
KIRK: Bones, he's the cloud. Its thoughts are here. Don't move. Lieutenant, use the library computer. Put some views of the Earth onto that screen.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: This is the thing we come from. Lieutenant, this is what I want.
SCOTT: Awaiting your order, Captain.
KIRK: A few seconds, Scotty. We have to give Spock that much.
MCCOY: Jim, if we don't self-destruct now all those people will die.
SULU: The cloud has stopped, sir.
CLOUD (voiceover): Comprehend. Not desire to consume other beings.
KIRK: Quiet.
SPOCK (voiceover): There are many things in our galaxy like the one you just perceived.
CLOUD (voiceover): Truth?
SPOCK (voiceover): Truth. You do not desire to consume other beings. It would be best if you return to your origin. The way you came. Will you do this?
CLOUD (voiceover): A long journey.
SPOCK (voiceover): Will you return?
CLOUD (voiceover): Will return to origin place.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Governor Wesley. Tell him to bring his ships back.
UHURA: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Spock, you did it! The cloud is leaving.
SPOCK: I believe so, Captain. There is a grid at the top of the brain core. It uses it to sense. We can escape the cloud through it.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, let's get out of here, through that grid.
SULU: Yes, sir!
KIRK: Spock, what did you perceive?
SPOCK: The wonders of the universe, Captain. Incredible, completely incredible.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 4978.4. We are approaching the Arcadian star system on a mission to locate an old friend.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Do you think Harry Mudd is down there, Spock?
SPOCK: The probability of his presence on Motherlode is eight one percent plus or minus point five three.
MCCOY: Why can't you just say, Mudd's probably there.
SPOCK: I just did, Doctor.
AREX: Approaching parking orbit, Captain.
KIRK: Very well, Mister Arex. Spock, let's see how close your percentage is.

[Marquee]
MUDD: Now, you're all heavy metal miners, shrewd and intelligent. So you can appreciate the incredible value I'm offering. With this magical liquid, no person of the opposite sex can resist you. It matters not whether you are young, old, fat, ugly or repugnant.
MUDD: Nothing personal, gentle beings.
LADY BEAR: Proof, human.
MUDD: Proof? Behold.
LORA: Harry, darling. I was lonely for you.
MUDD: Behold. I placed a single drop of this miracle substance on meself, then simply touched this young lady.
LORA: Please, darling, come back to the ship with me.
MINER: How much?
MUDD: Three hundred credits, or the
MINER: Three hundred?
MUDD: A bargain, sir. True love is worth any price. Captain Kirk! And the ineluctable Mister Spock. Welcome to Motherlode, gentlemen. Interested in purchasing a little love?
KIRK: We're interested in you, Harry. For fraud, illegal drug manufacture and swindling.
MUDD: As I said, welcome to Motherlode, a charming planet which does not recognize Federation law.
MINER: So you two can keep out of this. All right, Mudd. You've got a deal.
SPOCK: Are you aware that Harry Mudd is tricking you via an illusion?
MINER: What?
SPOCK: The so-called girl is a Rigelian hypnoid, projecting a simple illusion.
MUDD: Now, friends.
KIRK: We can't arrest you, Harry, but you can give yourself up.
MUDD: No.
MINER: Thief.
MUDD: I surrender myself with free will. Mercy of the law.

[Transporter room]
MUDD: Ah, that was a miching trick, Kirk. You've cost me me ship, everything I own. Even the love crystals. I may just sue you.
KIRK: Fine. I'll see you in court, Harry.

[Brig]
CHAPEL: A minor bruise, Captain. He'll live.
KIRK: I thought we left you on the robot planet, Harry. Permanently.
MUDD: Never underestimate the spirit of Harcourt Fenton Mudd. I borrowed a vehicle.
SPOCK: Stole a spaceship.
MUDD: And left to find haven on Ilyra Six. A charming planet, an innocent and friendly populace.
KIRK: To whom you sold the Starfleet Space Academy. Harry.
SPOCK: A fraud. But sold for enough credits to get to Sirius Nine.
MUDD: Where I discovered a boon to humanoid life, a miracle love potion.
KIRK: Which you sold to a thousand inhabitants, who immediately became ill from using it.
MUDD: I hadn't counted on their unusual biochemistry. So, I did the logical thing. I left in haste.
KIRK: And came here to swindle honest miners.
MUDD: The love potion works, Captain. If you'll allow me to procure some from my ship

[Corridor]
KIRK: Prepare the arrest report, Mister Spock.
CHAPEL: Of course, Mister Spock. I think you deserve congratulations for trapping him so cleverly.
SPOCK: You exaggerate, Nurse. Kindly see that your medical summary is more precise.
MUDD: Your Mister Spock is really a very attractive intelligence.
CHAPEL: An efficient officer, yes.
MUDD: But a trifle lacking in the warmer emotions. Now, you, Nurse. You have a wonderful gift to heal the wounded, a fantastic touch. A womanly, feminine quality. I appreciate that. And I should like to, well, thank you.
CHAPEL: What is it?
MUDD: My love potion. Not illusion, not trickery, dear Nurse Chapel. Inside this crystal lies the power to create love.
CHAPEL: No. No, I've heard of your potions before. I don't believe you.
MUDD: Think about it, darling. Mister Spock in love with you.

[Bridge]
AREX: An uncharted star system ahead, Captain.
SPOCK: Binary sun with a Class M planet. That's rare enough to warrant investigation.
KIRK: Agreed. Take us into orbit, Lieutenant Arex.

[Brig]
MUDD: It's really so simple, my dear. You rub the liquid on yourself, then touch another person.
CHAPEL: And it creates love in that person? Mudd, that is totally absurd.
MUDD: No, it is infallible. One touch evokes friendship between men or women. But between woman and man, love. Guaranteed. You're not simply a beautiful woman, you are a scientist. I urge you to take this love crystal as my gift of gratitude to you. Take it, dear Nurse Chapel, and conduct your own experiment.
CHAPEL: Not that I believe you, but, well, I suppose I could analyze it.
MUDD: Of course.

[Bridge]
AREX: Parking orbit stable. Weapons systems on defensive standby.
SPOCK: No evidence of intelligent life. Atmosphere at surface, eight hundred millibars, breathable. Gravity one point two. Temperature hot, but within Class M limits.

[Brig]
CHAPEL: I'll let you know the results of my analysis.
MUDD: Laboratory tests would destroy it, my dear. Why not test it the way it's meant to be used?
CHAPEL: No, I
MUDD: Ah, darling, think. If it does what I say it does, Spock will be yours forever, my dear.
CHAPEL: I just break the capsule and rub it on my skin?
MUDD: And then touch him.
CHAPEL: What is it?
MUDD: A temporary effect as the liquid is absorbed.
MUDD: It'll pass.
CHAPEL: I feel better.
MUDD: Didn't I tell you?
CHAPEL: You should, you should be in the Brig, Harry.
MUDD: Oh, right you are, darling. (He steps back in and she reactivates the forcefield.
MUDD: Why don't you go find Spock? Can't waste any time, you know.
CHAPEL: Yes, I'll do that.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Yes, Nurse?
CHAPEL: I brought the medical summary for the arrest report, Mister Spock.
CHAPEL: Sorry, sir.
SPOCK: Are you injured, Miss Chapel?
CHAPEL: No. No, I, I'm fine. Are you feeling all right?
SPOCK: Perfectly normal. I will append your summary to the report. Was there something else, Miss Chapel?
CHAPEL: Wouldn't you like me to, well, stay? Help you?
SPOCK: That would be illogical, Miss Chapel.
CHAPEL: Yes. Yes, It'd be stupid.

[Corridor]
CHAPEL: Harry Mudd, you swindling
CHAPEL: Oh, no!

[Shuttlebay]
MUDD: Harry Mudd, triumphant again.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: And appended hereto is a medical summary by Nurse Christine Chapel. Ah, Nurse Chapel's sweet summary. Dear, lovely Christine.

[Shuttlebay]
CHAPEL: I've come to collect on your guarantee, Mister Mudd.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain. Doctor. I wish to report a, er, a number of very strange, um, emotions.
MCCOY: What?
KIRK: What?

[Shuttlebay]
MUDD: You're implying the potion was not completely successful?
CHAPEL: Oh, no, it was. I made a complete fool of myself.
MUDD: But you know how cold Vulcans are. Perhaps it takes a bit more time for Spock to
CHAPEL: You're the same fraud you've always been, Harry. I don't know how I could have believed you.
MUDD: Well, let's discuss it rationally, my dear. Let's not be hasty.
CHAPEL: Don't panic, Harry. This phaser is set on stun, not kill. Activate the intercom.
MUDD: Now wait a minute. Perhaps that particular crystal was defective. Here, try another. I assure you
CHAPEL: Stop it!
MUDD: Sorry, Christine, but I shall require a temporary hostage.

[Bridge]
AREX: Internal security, Captain.
KIRK: Put it on screen.
AREX: Shuttlecraft bay.
SPOCK: Mudd. And he has Christine. She's in danger. My love.
SULU: He's going planet side.
SPOCK: No. Not with my Christine.

[Shuttlecraft]
MUDD: Relax, darling. I'll set you down somewhere safe and then I'll be off discreetly.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: We must go after them, Captain. I'll lead a landing party.
MCCOY: Spock, you're obviously not yourself. Maybe some rest.
SPOCK: Captain, I insist upon going. Christine. I can't stand the thought of any danger to her, to the woman I love.
KIRK: Love?
MCCOY: Spock?
SPOCK: Yes. I want to protect her, hold her in my arms.
KIRK: Then I'll transport down with you.
SPOCK: Good.
MCCOY: Jim, is that wise, in his condition?
KIRK: Try and stop him. It's better if I go with him.
SCOTT: Spock? In love?
M'RESS: I can't imagine.
SCOTT: Love.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Harry Mudd has escaped from the Enterprise, taking Head Nurse Chapel with him, apparently as a hostage. Meanwhile, Mister Spock is acting very strange.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Come on. Hurry! If he's harmed one hair on her pretty head
MCCOY: Jim, the search party found this in the shuttlecraft bay.
KIRK: One of Mudd's love crystals.
MCCOY: Captain, a number of these were broken against the ship's air system grill.
KIRK: Lucky for us they don't work.
MCCOY: Are we sure, Jim? A number of the crew are acting as strange as Spock.
SPOCK: Please, Captain.
KIRK: Check it out, Bones. Send me an immediate report.

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Mudd has landed on the planet surface. Co-ordinates relayed to Transporter room four.
SCOTT: And the Captain's in transports about it with our ever-loving Mister Spock.
M'RESS: You're funny, and very attractive for a human.

[Planet surface]
MUDD: They'll find you soon enough, me little poppet. You'll be safe and I'll be long gone.
CHAPEL: Gone where? The planet's a desert.
MUDD: There's always a market for an ingenious man. Once, I recall, on Omega Cygni, I turned a handsome profit selling the natives their own oceans.
CHAPEL: We haven't seen any traces of intelligent life. Of any life.
MUDD: Then you can relax. There's no danger, ay? We'll get you set up top class. Don't bother to thank me.
CHAPEL: Well, I hadn't planned on it.

[Bridge]
AREX: By the way, anybody keeping a trace on the Captain and Mister Spock?
M'RESS: Sure, Arex.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Thanks Jim. It's good to have a friend like you.
KIRK: Strange, that's the way I feel about you, too. My dear friend, Spock. Come, let's go get Mudd and Christine.
SPOCK: Darling, are you all right?
CHAPEL: D-darling?
MUDD: Kirk, get us out of here.
KIRK: Transporter room, emergency beam up now.
KIRK: They're not responding.
SPOCK: Don't worry. You'll be safe, darling.
CHAPEL: Yes, Spock. How wonderful.
MUDD: They're coming closer.
KIRK: Emergency beam up. Enterprise, come in. No response. Spock, can't you take your hands off her?
SPOCK: That's my affair.
CHAPEL: Captain, please.
KIRK: I think we should get a few things straight.
SPOCK: Jim. No. Captain. We're both reacting to the drug. The love potion.
MUDD: It worked?
KIRK: Yes, we have to control our emotional reactions.
MUDD: It worked! And I was selling those crystals to lump-headed miners for a miserable three hundred credits.

[Rec room]
MCCOY: Did I ever tell you about the time I saved Captain Kirk's life? Or Spock's?
MCCOY: And my dear friend Scotty. And that pretty little Lieutenant Uhura. I've saved just about everybody on this here ship. If the Enterprise had a heart, I'd save her too. Now, let's talk about your heart, my dear.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: How long does the effect of the potion last, Harry?
MUDD: I, I don't know. Not long, according to the creature I swindled, I purchased the crystals from.
CHAPEL: Look!
KIRK: Keep trying to contact the Enterprise. Maybe we can distract them.
SPOCK: That is an outstandingly stupid idea. I'm sorry. The drug. I simply doubt that we can appeal to their better nature. If they have one.
KIRK: Harry, do you have any of the crystals left?
MUDD: Two. No! They're worth a fortune. No. My friends, dear Christine, for you, for all of us.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: I've got a hangover to shame all previous hangovers. And I did not touch a drop of Scotch.
M'RESS: Not so loud, you fool.
SCOTT: Yeah, well, all of a sudden I don't like you much either.
CHAPEL (voiceover): Come in, Enterprise. Emergency beam up. Repeat, emergency.
M'RESS: Enterprise here.

[Planet surface]
CHAPEL: I made contact.
KIRK: Great. I hope we last long enough to be beamed up. Phasers ready. I'll need help.

[Brig]
MUDD: And then on Ophiucus Six, I conned two miners out of a year's supply of dilithium crystals with fake Federation vouchers.
SPOCK: May I help you record his confession, Nurse?
CHAPEL: You? You'd be the last person I'd choose.
SPOCK: A few moments of love, paid for with several hours of hatred. Your potion is scarcely a bargain, Harry.
MUDD: Ah, well, Spock. So few things in this universe are perfect. Think I'll get rehabilitation therapy again?
SPOCK: I can guarantee it.
MUDD: Well, that's all right. I just hate to leave you all. All my loved ones.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 1254.4. For years scientists have theorized that if our galaxy was created from a great explosion, then the center of the galaxy might still be creating new matter. The Enterprise is now on a science mission to investigate.

[Bridge]
KIRK: It's an awesome thought that we may actually witness matter being created.
SPOCK: If we do, Captain, we may also encounter forces and phenomena beyond our understanding.
SULU: Galaxy center, Captain.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, sound Yellow Alert.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Yellow Alert. All stations report Yellow Alert readiness, sir. Captain!
KIRK: The creation point.
SPOCK: An extraordinary phenomenon, Captain.
KIRK: Reverse power. Hold our position. Deflector screens on.
SULU: Deflectors up. Sir, it's taking considerable power to hold position.
SPOCK: Charting scanners on, Captain. Beginning science survey.
MCCOY: Jim. Spock. What in the name of sanity is going on?
KIRK: We're here, Bones. And the theories about this place seem to be right.
SULU: Captain, that thing's pulling us in. I'm up to warp six.
SPOCK: Scanners indicate it's some form of matter-energy whirlwind, Captain.
SULU: Warp seven, Captain. Warp eight.
KIRK: Take us out of here, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Still being drawn in, Captain. Warp nine. Warp ten.
KIRK: Emergency reverse power.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Captain, I don't know how much more emergency power we can take before we start to break up.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: There may be only one choice. We must hope this whirlwind is like its atmospheric counterparts, that there is calm at its center.
KIRK: Agreed. We'll try to make for the eye of the storm.
SPOCK: Allow me.
KIRK: Engineering, report.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Everything can be repaired, Captain.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: An incredible experience, Captain. I find this scientifically fascinating.
MCCOY: At least I have the good sense to be scared, Jim. What now?
KIRK: We'll ride her through, Bones. What else can we do?
MCCOY: Ride her through where?
SPOCK: Through the center of things, Doctor. Through what may be the center of everything.
UHURA: Where are we?
SPOCK: I'm afraid our navigational co-ordinates mean very little here, Lieutenant. My readings indicate we are not in time and space as we understand it. Doctor, these readings may interest you.
UHURA: Captain, the subspace radio. It's dead.
MCCOY: Even the ship's chronometers have stopped.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, there's no reason for it, but the engines are fading out.
SPOCK: Apparently, the natural laws of our universe don't operate here, Captain.
MCCOY: Ship's life support systems fading. Jim, we need oxygen.
KIRK: Helmsman, emergency battery power.
SULU: There's none, Captain. All systems are dead.
MCCOY: Jim, we've got to do something.
LUCIEN: Ah, humans. Lovely primitive humans. Can't you do anything right?
KIRK: Please.
LUCIEN: Of course, friend. Of course. Rhadamanthus!
LUCIEN: Everything is working, my friends.
SPOCK: It cannot. It is not logical.
LUCIEN: Logic? Whose logic, my elfin friend?
MCCOY: Look around you, Spock. Everything is working.
LUCIEN: Welcome! I knew eventually humans would come searching for me.
KIRK: Who are you?
LUCIEN: Call me Lucien! Call me friend! Never could I abandon those who come to rollick with me. But not up here. No, no. Let us leave this vessel and go where true delights lie!

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Bones, you all right?
MCCOY: Nothing wrong, Jim, but a face full of dust. But if I had a medical tricorder Jim, look at yourself.
KIRK: Lucien, do something.
LUCIEN: Very well, Captain. I'd forgotten how much bodily integrity means to you humans. This isn't easy, you know, holding us together like this. It's not even natural.
MCCOY: Being in one piece is very natural where we come from.
SPOCK: I find this all quite absorbing, Doctor.
MCCOY: Probably because you're not very natural to begin with, Spock.
KIRK: Look, Lucien, or whatever you want to call yourself, I want to know why you brought us here.
LUCIEN: Children will play.
LUCIEN: Is this better, my friends? I've translated my world into symbols your minds can understand. Welcome, my friends, to Megas-Tu.
KIRK: And just exactly what is Megas-Tu?
LUCIEN: A world, Captain James Kirk, that operates by rules quite different from those in your universe.
LUCIEN: Our universe operates by what you superstitiously call magic.
MCCOY: I know this is just my imagination but
LUCIEN: It is real, Doctor. Beautiful? No. But all our women are as young and beautiful as they want to be. So as to ensnare the man of her dreams, she needs an edge.
KIRK: A love philter?
LUCIEN: Never settle for anything less. Do you need a room, a stable, a castle? Stop in at your friendly sorcerer-contractor. Let him do the work.
SPOCK: Of course. Our Federation scientists were more correct than they realized. In order to function, the galactic creation point must extend through space, time, into another dimension where the logic of things is totally different.
LUCIEN: It took magic to get your vessel working again. Magic you, my friends, don't know how to work. But then you never did know, did you.
KIRK: Lucien, you keep calling us friends, implying that you know us. How?
LUCIEN: Ah, Captain, Captain. to feign such ignorance to me. Very well. Look.
LUCIEN: Megas-Tu may seem to you a chaotic world, but its people are calm, peaceful, contemplative, each a specialist in his own kind of magic. There are no rivals anywhere in our universe, Captain Kirk. No other life forms at all. Millennia ago, in our search for companionship, we Megans passed through the point between dimensions and eventually we found ourselves on your world, Earth. Wherever we went, we became advisors to mankind. To help your ancestors, we drew on the power left behind in our own universe and made it work in your world. But eventually we had to leave. I didn't want to, my friends. Oh, how I fought! I was the generalist amid all the specialists. The trouble-maker, they said. But I'd always loved the people of Earth. Those were the days. But now you've come to me, and I'm so very glad.
KIRK: But why did you Megans leave Earth? If you enjoyed it so much, I don't understand.
LUCIEN: Captain, good Captain, always so curious. That must be why I've always liked you Earthlings so much. No, you must go.
MCCOY: What is it? What's wrong?
LUCIEN: You must return to your vessel. Quickly! Do not give your presence away.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain.
UHURA: Captain Kirk, what
KIRK: Everyone onboard is all right?
SCOTT: Fine, Captain. But you?
KIRK: Mister Scott, I'm bewildered, that's all. But that's enough.
MCCOY: What did he mean, we're not to give ourselves away? Can't they detect the ship up here?
SCOTT: No, unless they have scanners. See, there. It's like a cloud of some kind. It's been between us and the planet since you vanished.
KIRK: If Lucien put it there
SPOCK: If Lucien put it there, Captain, the questions become, why is he hiding us, and, what is our danger if discovered by the rest of his people?
KIRK: Weapons status, Mister Scott? We may have to protect ourselves.
SCOTT: No way, Captain. Everything's out but life support systems, and I can't figure out how they're on.

[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: I believe this is how the ancients used to draw their mystic symbols, Captain.
KIRK: Spock, do you honestly believe that as long as we're in this universe we can work magic too?
SPOCK: One uses the resources at hand, Captain. Watch now. I will attempt to move a Vulcan chess piece magically. May the energy of this universe be the power in me.
MCCOY: Forget it, Spock. It won't work.
SPOCK: It must work, Doctor. It is logical here. Power of this universe, enter my being. I know I can. I believe I can.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. In this incredible universe, it appears to be a part of the natural laws that belief is as potent a force as energy and matter are in our own.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Good luck.
LUCIEN: What are you doing?
KIRK: Learning to protect ourselves, Lucien.
LUCIEN: Protect yourselves? Is that all human beings ever think about? I'll take care of you. That's what friends are for. All this mental energy you're using, it can be traced. You'll be found.
MEGAN (voiceover): Have been found.
MEGAN: So, the people of Earth would spread their evil to our home? We are ready for human perfidy this time. This time, it is the humans who shall suffer, the humans and you, Lucien, who shall pay!
KIRK: Keep calm.

[Frontier town]
KIRK: It looks like ancient Earth, Spock. Sixteenth or seventeenth century, I'd guess.
SPOCK: Approximately 1691, Captain. Salem Massachusetts, if I recall your historical records correctly.
MEGAN: We are gathered here today, good citizens, to see justice done. You are the judges. These are the defendants, as representatives of the vilest species in all the universe, treacherous humanity, and those who would aid them. As a specialist in the ethics of magic, I have been appointed prosecutor here.
KIRK: Wait. If this is a trial, we have the right to know what you think we've done.
MEGAN: Has this one not told you how we visited your Earth? Or what was done to us there?
KIRK: Lucien has said only that you came as wise men, helpful wizards.
MEGAN: Then hear this. Know that one, upon your world, I was known as Asmodeus, he who sees all. Gaze upon my countenance, so that you too may see. We came to your world as friends. But wherever we went, the story was invariably the same. Some humans would attempt to use us to gain power, to serve their own greed and lust. When we refused to serve them, they turned against us and taught other humans to fear us, to hate. They called us devils, warlocks, evil sorcerers. Those of us who survived came to the town of Salem in Massachusetts, as settlers, and tried to live like other men.
SPOCK: But you made mistakes, used your powers
MEGAN: And burned for it. Burned!
KIRK: As witches.
MEGAN: We massed together, outside the town, immersed ourselves in Megan lore, revived ourselves enough to unite our minds and reach into our own universe, tap enough of its power to return from your hellish Earth to Megas-Tu.
LUCIEN: And loneliness and fear
MEGAN: Should we not fear the Earthlings? Should we not fear the cruelty of outsiders? Never again have we explored. Never again has companionship been sought. Yet here you are.
LUCIEN: And if one Earth ship can find us, friend Kirk, then so can others. That's what they fear.
MEGAN: We do not want to hurt you. We have never had to hurt anyone before. If there were some reason not to. Who will speak in defense of the Earth humans?
SPOCK: I will, Asmodeus. I am not of Earth.
MEGAN: Yes, you are different. The court will hear a defense.
SPOCK: I call Lucien as my first witness.
SPOCK: Lucien, you alone of all those here do not seem to fear or hate humans. Why?
LUCIEN: They are like me, with questions to be answered, with minds that range outward, boundless. But every Megan is always alone in his sphere of knowledge. Humans are always together. They share. That is why I adopted your ship when I saw it arrive.
SPOCK: Thank you, Lucien. Next witness, please. Captain James T Kirk.
SPOCK: Tell the court, please, Captain Kirk. Would you say that since Salem, humans have changed?
KIRK: I think we've been trying to, Spock. Humans have their faults, greed, envy, panicky fear. But in the centuries since the Salem witch trials we have learned. We try to understand and respect all life forms.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. Could you elaborate?
KIRK: The records of the Enterprise are open for your inspection. All the history of Earth and the Federation is at your disposal. Look, look at General Order number One. No starship may interfere with the normal development of any alien life or society. Compare that with the Earth you once knew.
MEGAN: Enough! Here is your history. Here are your records. Citizens, you have heard, you have read. How do you vote? According to your records, your entry here was an accident unlikely to be duplicated. With that in mind, plus all you have said, it seems to us that Megas-Tu is safe. But Lucien must be punished. For his betrayal of his people, he shall be confined in limbo for all eternity, to live with only himself.
KIRK: No. To isolate someone like Lucien, that's the same as sentencing him to death.
MEGAN: Do you realize who you defend? He has told you his name is Lucien. Would you defend him still if you knew he had another name too? The Rollicker, the Tempter, Lucifer.
KIRK: We're not interested in legend. He's a living being, and intelligent life form. That's all we have to know about him. We will not join in harming him.
MEGAN: Submit, Captain. You haven't the power to fight us.
SPOCK: Captain, use the magic you know. Believe.
MEGAN: You cannot beat an entire planet, Captain Kirk. There is no way you can win.
KIRK: I have to, or you'll become as bad as the Earthmen you fear. You're acting out of terror instead of out of thought or respect.
MEGAN: You were prepared to die for Lucien, a being who is alien to you?
LUCIEN: As I was sure you would, friend Kirk. I told them their fears were groundless.
KIRK: I don't understand.
MEGAN: This last was a test of your intentions, Captain. We had to be certain your records were no ruse. We have been tricked before much to our pain and sorrow.
SPOCK: I see. The Megans had to have proof that mankind had grown and learned wisdom since they last saw Earth. Your compassion was that proof, Captain.
MEGAN: If your people should visit us now, we shall do our best to welcome them. The banishment of fear will help us all.
LUCIEN: A favorite old Earth custom of mine, Asmodeus. A toast to a new friendship.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: All systems go, Captain. We're back to normal.
MCCOY: No more magic for us, Jim. It's all back there. You think Lucien really was the demon some men call Lucifer?
KIRK: Does it really matter?
SPOCK: It just might, Captain. If he was, this would be the second time Lucifer was cast out, and thanks to you, the first time he was saved.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52.2. We have just entered the Delta Triangle, a vast, uninhabited sector of our galaxy in which a high number of mysterious disappearances of starships have been recorded since ancient times. The Enterprise has been assigned the mission of surveying this area, and if possible, determining the cause of these disappearances.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Situation, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Our sensors are in a state of chaos, Captain. They became unreliable when we entered the Triangle.
KIRK: Magnification ten on forward scanners, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Magnification ten, sir.
KIRK: Klingon battle cruiser. Deflector shields up, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Deflectors up, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a hailing frequency.
KIRK: Ready phasers.
SULU: Phasers locked on target, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
SULU: Firing phasers.
KIRK: Mister Spock, did you see what I think I just saw?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Explanation?
SPOCK: I can offer none at this time. However, the Klingon ship was not destroyed by our phaser fire. Its shields clearly deflected the phasers. Nor was its disappearance the type that would have been affected if it were using its cloaking device.
KIRK: Any sensor analysis on that wavering effect just before the ship disappeared?
SPOCK: The sensors are still not registering normally, sir. But I would venture the theory it has something to do with the many ship disappearances in this area.
KIRK: A natural phenomenon. But what? Duty personnel on Yellow Alert. Visual scan three hundred and sixty degrees, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Scanning three hundred and sixty degrees, sir.
KIRK: Mousetrapped. If the first ship doesn't succeed in blasting us out of existence, they have two backup ships to do the job.
SPOCK: Tactically well planned. When the Federation investigates, we'll be recorded as just another mysterious starship disappearance.
UHURA: Captain, we are receiving a class two signal from the lead Klingon vessel.
KIRK: One moment, Lieutenant. Mister Sulu, on my command, I want you to turn the Enterprise and head for the exact co-ordinates where the Klingon ship disappeared. Warp eight.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Put the signal on the main viewing screen, Lieutenant, and pipe the entire exchange back to Starfleet Command.
UHURA: It will take three weeks to reach the nearest starbase, sir.
KIRK: Nonetheless, let's have it on the record.
UHURA: Aye, sir. Signal in.
KURI (screen): You have been identified as the starship Enterprise. Captain James T Kirk last known to be in command.
KIRK: Your information is correct. This is Captain Kirk.
KURI (screen): I am Commander Kuri of the Klingon Imperial Fleet. We have witnessed the destruction of our sister ship, the Klothos, and hold you responsible. Surrender immediately or we will destroy you.
KIRK: We did not destroy the Klothos, and you are well aware of it, Commander.
KURI (screen): Surely you don't expect me to believe she just vanished?
KIRK: You may believe what you like, Commander. We were fired upon first and returned fire. The Klothos deflectors turned aside our phaser fire and then disappeared. I don't know why. But we are in the Delta Triangle.
KURI (screen): I do not accept this.
KIRK: Frankly, Commander, what you accept is of little importance to me. Enterprise out. Now, Mister Sulu.

[Klingon ship]
KURI: What fools! Thinking they can escape. Accelerate to maximum and prepare to open fire.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Sir, aren't we going to defend ourselves?
KIRK: Your deflector shields are doing that for us, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: But to just turn and run, sir.
KIRK: We'll fight if we have to. Sulu, are we headed for the exact co-ordinates where the Klothos disappeared?
SULU: Dead on, sir. We'll be there in ten seconds.
SCOTT: Captain, our deflector shields have just gone out.
SULU: Sir, the instruments. They've gone haywire. I can't orient myself. Everything is
UHURA: Subspace radio channels are dead, sir.

[Klingon ship]
KURI: Where did they go?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, I've lost all co-ordination. Dizzy.
SPOCK: Sir, we seem to be suffering from some form of vertigo.
KIRK: Sulu, are we still on the same co-ordinates?
SULU: I can't tell, sir. Vision won't focus.
SPOCK: Captain, on the viewscreen.
KIRK: It's like a vast Sargasso Sea. A graveyard of ships from every civilisation imaginable.
UHURA: Where are we, sir?
KIRK: At another place in time, I think. If we check closely, I believe we'll find many of those ships are the ones designated as lost in the Delta Triangle.
UHURA: An alternate universe?
KIRK: Something corresponding to that. The records say every ship lost here vanished without a trace. Most logged communication loss and disorientation just before disappearance. My guess was they entered a window to some other continuum. Comments, Spock?
SPOCK: Your logic is excellent, Captain. There is a random factor to the ship disappearances. Perhaps the touching of the two time continuums is erratic. In any event, the window stayed open long enough for us to follow the Klothos in.
SCOTT: Aye, and where is that tricky devil?
SULU: I've been scanning for her, but there are so many ships here it's hard to pick up a specific trace.
KIRK: Stay on it, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, sir.
SCOTT: There are ships here I've only seen crude drawings of, pictures in museums.
SPOCK: Sensor scans give a rough approximation of the age of the metal in the hulls, Captain. Some of them have been here for centuries.
SCOTT: Captain, there's the old Bonaventure. She was the first ship to have warp drive installed. She vanished without a trace on her third voyage.
SPOCK: The crew's descendants may still be living, Captain.
KIRK: Their descendants?
SPOCK: Yes. I am picking up life and energy readings from the cluster of ships ahead of us.

[Klothos Bridge]
KAZ: Scanners indicate the Enterprise shields are totally depleted, sir.
KOR: Good. All hands to battle stations. Prepare to open fire on the Enterprise immediately.

[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, the Klothos, dead ahead.
KIRK: Sound Red Alert. Phasers lock on target.
SULU: Aye, sir. Phasers locked on.

[Klothos Bridge]
KOR: Fire!
KAZ: Sir, our weaponry is frozen.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Fire.
SULU: Firing phasers.
KIRK: Report, sir.
SULU: No response, sir. There's no indication of damage. All instruments register normal.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. First Officer Spock recording. We appear to be in an alternate universe. Position, undetermined. Captain Kirk has been transported from the ship by an unknown power. His present location also is undetermined.

[Council chamber]
XERIUS: That will not be needed here, Commander Kor.
XERIUS: Welcome to Elysia. Devna, Interpreter of Laws.
KIRK: Are we in an alternate universe?
DEVNA: It is more aptly described as a pocket in the garment of time.
KOR: How did you freeze my weaponry?
DEVNA: We have among us many individuals gifted with psionic powers, peace being our single goal. You were attempting to break that peace.
XERIUS: Pronounce the law.
DEVNA: Under our law, you as ship captains are responsible for the behavior of your crews. Should a crew member, with or without your knowledge, engage in any form of violence whatsoever, you will suffer the ultimate penalty. Total immobilization of your ship for a century.
KOR: A century? We'd all be dead by the end of it.
XERIUS: No, Commander Kor. This small universe of ours is a curios trap. Time passes here, but very slowly. A century means nothing to us. Our Council appears young. Yet all are centuries old.
KIRK: Your life here must be almost perfect, if you haven't wanted to leave.
XERIUS: All of us have wanted to leave at some time, Captain Kirk. But we have made the best possible world here, because we have found there is no escape from it.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We are getting out.
SCOTT: Then we'd better do it pretty quick, Captain.
SPOCK: If we find an answer, it will still take time.
SCOTT: That's just what we haven't got.
KIRK: What's wrong, Scotty?
SCOTT: It's our dilithium crystals, sir. They're deteriorating rapidly.
KIRK: But how?
SCOTT: I don't know, sir. Maybe because of the time warp we went through. But we've only four days at the most before power goes.
KIRK: Got any miracles in your computer, Spock?
SPOCK: Impossible to predict, Captain.
KIRK: I don't want a prediction. You will start work immediately, around the clock, nonstop, until you arrive at a formula that gets us out of here.

[Klothos Bridge]
KOR: These computations are useless. Get out of here and don't come back until you have a plan that works.
KAZ: Yes, sir.

[Council chamber]
DEVNA: What do you see beyond your eyes, Magen?
MAGEN: Two new ships. In each, beings labor to solve the riddle. The riddle of the time trap escape. Escape.
DEVNA: Gently, good Magen. Return to us now.
XERIUS: It is impossible.
DEVNA: They must try, Xerius. They all must try before they accept.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: This is the best you could come up with, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Have you covered every possibility? Every factor?
SPOCK: Several times, Captain. I do not wish to surrender hope, but the facts remain unchangeable.
KIRK: He isn't giving up. If they can do it, why can't we?
SPOCK: I do not believe they can, sir. High rank probability. Their S2 graf unit, which is roughly the equivalent of our warp drive, began giving off depleted energy readings. Kor decided to try to bluff it through.
KIRK: Jeopardizing his crew and his ship unnecessarily?

[Klothos Bridge]
KAZ: All power has been diverted to the engines, sir. We're picking up speed.

[Bridge]
KIRK: You were right, Spock. But I almost wish they'd made it.
SPOCK: Their attempt has given me an idea as to how we may be able to break through the time barrier.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Mister Spock has come up with a formula which may just get us out of here.
SCOTT: But this involves combining our ship with the Klothos.
KIRK: That is correct.
MCCOY: You mean you want us to co-operate with those
KIRK: If we want to get out of here, it's our only choice.
SULU: It's a complicated navigation problem, trying to guide two such disparate ships.
SCOTT: Considering we only have two days left before our supply of dilithium crystals is exhausted, I say we go with this plan.
SULU: I agree, sir.
KIRK: Good. I'll contact Kor right away.

[Council chamber]
XERIUS: What is it?
DEVNA: These new ones. Now they plan to combine the two ships and try again. Can you not stop them, Xerius?
XERIUS: It is not against our laws to try to escape.
DEVNA: But they may kill themselves in these mad attempts.
XERIUS: So long as they do not break our laws, we must not impede them.
DEVNA: Even if they die?
XERIUS: It is their choice.

[Klothos briefing room]
KIRK: Then it's settled. Our science teams will get to work right away conjoining our warp and navigation systems so we will function as a single ship. Exchange of personnel and computer hookup to start as soon as we are beamed back to our ship.
KOR: Agreed.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: I cannot tell you how impressed I am by your splendid spirit of co-operation.
KOR: Mister Spock!
SPOCK: Forgive me, Commander. I was overcome by the moment. Goodbye.
KOR: Goodbye, Mister Spock. Captain Kirk.
KAZ: The stories of his being half human must be true.
KOR: Perhaps the time continuum affected his mind.
KAZ: I wonder if we all haven't become affected.
KOR: Explain yourself.
KAZ: Your willingness to work with your old enemy, Kirk. It is not like you, Commander. What do you really have in mind?
KOR: You do know me, Kaz. Very well, what would you think if the Enterprise suddenly disintegrated after our dual ship had pierced the time continuum?
KAZ: I would think my commander had maneuverd brilliantly.
KOR: And it can be arranged, practically speaking?
KAZ: It implies a rather high risk factor, given the time involved and Kirk's highly suspicious nature. But I believe it can be arranged.
KOR: Very good, Kaz. I will leave it to you to attend to the details of the Enterprise's destruction.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5267.6. We are in the final stages preparatory to making our escape from Elysia.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We must make our escape by tomorrow or our dilithium crystals will be too depleted, and we will be trapped here forever.
GABLER: Beg your pardon, sir.
KIRK: What is it, Gabler.
GABLER: Bell and I are the relief guard for the dilithium vault. We arrived a few minutes late and found them poking around.
KLINGON: We were lost.
GABLER: Lost, my foot. It's clearly posted as a restricted area. You knew you weren't supposed to be there.
SPOCK: Gentlemen, I'm sure there has been a mistake. Where are you supposed to be working?
KLINGON: Engineering, deck five.
SPOCK: Captain, allow me to escort this young man to his work area.
KIRK: Very well, Mister Spock.
KIRK: Return to your post and don't leave it until you've been relieved.
GABLER: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, I'm worried about Spock. He's just not acting normal.
KIRK: He's under a lot of pressure, Bones.
MCCOY: I know that. But I've never known Spock to act like a pal under any circumstances, least of all toward Klingons.
KIRK: That's true.
MCCOY: And if he's coming apart, Jim, we're in serious trouble. Getting out of here hinges on his computations.
KIRK: I'll talk to him, Bones. It's all I can do.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Everything seems to be in order. But then you're the only person who can really be sure. Isn't that right, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Why do you ask?
KIRK: Your recent behavior. Is something wrong?
SPOCK: I believe there is, Captain. But not within me. I sensed something strange about the Klingons when we were aboard the Klothos. They were too agreeable, too willing to co-operate.
KIRK: Why is that unusual? They want to get out of here as much as we do.
SPOCK: Had I not touched them, I would have agreed with you, Captain. But even though contact was necessarily limited and their minds were suspicious, I picked up some indication they are planning to sabotage the Enterprise.
KIRK: Sabotage! How? When?
SPOCK: I cannot say. The Klingon found near the dilithium vault knew nothing specific. But there is some kind of sabotage in the offing.
KIRK: They need us to get through the time barrier, if they're to get through at all. Security, this is Captain Kirk. I want all security teams on duty around the clock. Watch every Klingon who sets foot aboard this ship. I don't want one of them to make a move we don't know about.

[Klothos Bridge]
KOR: You have the device, Kaz?
KAZ: By my calculations, the capsule will be triggered the exact moment our dual ship reaches warp eight. Approximately three minutes after the time barrier is pierced and we have disengaged, the Enterprise will disintegrate.
KOR: Excellent! Kali, you know what to do. Tonight they entertain us, but the gift they will receive in return will be their destruction.

[Rec room]
KIRK: Beautifully done.
DEVNA: I thank you, Captain. You have seen the dance of Orion women before?
KIRK: Many times.
DEVNA: I wish
KIRK: Yes?
DEVNA: I wish I could return through the time barrier and see Orion again.
KIRK: You could go. We're willing to take passengers.
DEVNA: No. You see, we have all seen the futility of attempting to escape. Once each of us dreamed of breaking free. Then we came to understand it could not be done, and we accepted our life here.
KIRK: We believe it can be done.
DEVNA: Then I shall not interfere with your dream, Captain.
KAZ: Get away from here, human. This is my woman.
MCCOY: Now just a minute. All I did was ask her to dance. She didn't have to say yes.
KIRK: Bones!
XERIUS: Stop!
XERIUS: Ship captains and these two will come to the Council Chamber now to face charges.

[Council chamber]
XERIUS: You know any form of violence is forbidden here. Your man began the fight and attempted to kill. I propose we freeze the Klothos and its crew for a star century.
KIRK: May I speak?
XERIUS: You may.
KIRK: Captain Kor and I were preparing to attempt an escape from here tomorrow. If you hibernate the Klothos, you will not only be punishing them but us. We cannot leave as a single ship. I urge you to permit our dual ship to depart tomorrow as scheduled.
XERIUS: Getting back to your own time continuum is that important to you?
KIRK: Yes.
XERIUS: You will fail.
KIRK: We must try, Xerius. Elysia is, in many respects, a perfect society. But with all its virtues, it is not home. And home, with all its faults, is where we prefer to be.
XERIUS: You would take these renegades with you?
KIRK: We need them.
XERIUS: Very well. I release Captain Kor into your custody. Good luck to you, Captain Kirk. You will be needing it.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Ready to accelerate to warp six.
SULU: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Three, two, one. Accelerate.

[Council chamber]
MAGEN: No! The Klingons have hidden an explosive aboard the Enterprise. She will be destroyed.
XERIUS: Enterprise, this is Xerius! Come in, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
SULU: Warp seven, Captain.
UHURA: Sir, Xerius is calling us. He says it's urgent.
KIRK: On audio, Lieutenant.
XERIUS (voiceover): Captain Kirk! The Klingons have placed and explosive in your computer room. Magen says it is located in the warp control panel.

[Council chamber]
XERIUS: It will go off when you reach warp eight.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock. Scotty.

[Klothos Bridge]
KAZ: Approaching warp eight, sir.
KOR: The barrier.

[Computer room]
SCOTT: There it is, sir.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain Kirk, I'm picking up a radio transmission Captain Kor intended for his home base. He took full credit for our escape from Elysia.
MCCOY: Why, that scoundrel.
KIRK: It doesn't matter, Bones.
UHURA: It doesn't?
KIRK: That's what matters.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: These stasis boxes are the most remarkable thing the Slavers ever produced. Time stands still inside a stasis box. A billion years means nothing in there. What is it, Lieutenant?
UHURA: I've studied the history of the Slaver Empire, but it's sketchy. We know they were masters of all the intelligent beings in this galaxy a billion years ago, until one race revolted. Are the stasis boxes the only source of information we have?
SPOCK: The Slavers and all their subjects were exterminated in the war that followed. Intelligent life had to evolve all over again. The stasis boxes are the only remnant of those lost civilisations.
UHURA: Why is it glowing like that?
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, what is our position?
SULU: Passing Beta Lyrae, sir. One forty two degrees north east of galactic plane.
SPOCK: Most peculiar. This indicates there is another stasis box circling Beta Lyrae.
UHURA: Another one?
SPOCK: It would be most illogical that a stasis box would remain here undiscovered for so long. Beta Lyrae is one of the rare spectacles of the galaxy. Almost every ship that passes stops to see it.
UHURA: Maybe no one else was carrying a stasis box detector.
SPOCK: Possible. The only known stasis box detector is another stasis box. Still. Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Bring us about. We'll investigate the Beta Lyrae system.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK (voiceover): Stasis boxes and their contents are the only remnant of a species which ruled most of this galaxy a billion years ago. Their effect on science has been incalculable. In one was found a flying belt which was the key to the artificial gravity field used by starships. Another box contained a disrupter bomb with the pin pulled. As a result, all stasis boxes are now under the jurisdiction of Starfleet, and only certain key specialists handle them. The boxes are rare, potentially dangerous, and we seem to have found a second one.

[Planet surface]
UHURA: I never did like these little ice-bound worlds.
SPOCK: We are not tourists here, Lieutenant.
SULU: Mister Spock, if it takes a stasis box to find another stasis box, how did anyone ever find the first one?
SPOCK: As with a number of discoveries, purely by accident, Lieutenant. The other box seems to be almost under us, perhaps thirty meters below the ice.
SULU: We won't have any trouble digging for it. In this low pressure, the ice should boil as soon as the phasers melt it.
SPOCK (voiceover): I must take full responsibility for this event. Instead of being warned by the highly unlikely coincidence of a second stasis box, I allowed it's possible value to influence my judgment. The Kzinti now possess our stasis box. Its contents will determine how much damage my error has done the Federation and its people.

[Kzinti Ship]
UHURA: Where are we?
SPOCK: A Kzinti spacecraft.
SULU: That isn't good. Kzinti aren't supposed to have phasers, are they?
SPOCK: The Treaty of Sirius does not permit them any weapons at all, beyond police vessels. Obviously, the treaty has been broken.
SULU: A police web. We won't be able to move unless we can turn it off somehow.
SPOCK: The lean, be-draggles one is a reader of minds.
UHURA: I've heard all Kzinti telepaths are unhappy neurotics. He fits the description.
SPOCK: There is no sure way to guard our thoughts from him. Mister Sulu, he is not likely to deal with me or Lieutenant Uhura. She and I are inferior beings to them. But the Kzinti are meat eaters. If you sense him reading your mind, think of eating a raw vegetable.
SULU: Yes, sir. Maybe I can goad them into revealing their purpose.
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura. This may be crucial. In the presence of the Kzinti, do not say anything, do not do anything startling. Try to look harmless.
UHURA: Any special reason?
SPOCK: Are you forgetting Kzinti females are dumb animals? In an emergency the Kzinti may forget a human female is an intelligent creature.
UHURA: Thanks. Thanks a lot.
SPOCK: Lieutenant, I value your intelligence, but we may be able to seize an opportunity to escape if the Kzinti believe you have none.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Identify yourself.
SULU: Lieutenant Sulu of the Starfleet vessel Enterprise. This is First Officer Spock.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: You're a Vulcan. I feel no pressing need to talk to an eater of roots and leaves. Humans at least are omnivorous. I am Chuft-Captain. You are prisoners aboard the privateer Traitor's Claw, a stolen police vessel.
SULU: Stealing must be a habit with you. This ship, two stasis boxes.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Kzinti archeologists found both boxes, but the one we managed to keep was empty. It served us well as bait to draw you here, but the Slavers had weapons that could devastate a galaxy. There could be one in that box.
SULU: The Kzinti fought four wars with humankind and lost all of them. The last one was two hundred years ago, and you haven't learned a thing since.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Guard your speech. None of my crew has yet tasted human meat as our ancestors did. We would welcome the opportunity. Always you have had superior equipment. We seek a weapon that will defeat you at last.
SULU: Then you're really working for the Kzinti government.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: The records will show the Traitor's Claw is a stolen police ship. If we are captured, the Highest of Kzin will repudiate us. But if we succeed, you are meat for our tables.
SULU: Could that be a picture of a Slaver?
SPOCK: If so, it is the first ever discovered. An important historical find.
UHURA: It looks like fresh meat. Over a billion years in that box, and it looks fresh.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Nothing like this has ever been found. We are the only ones who have it. Look at it, human. This weapon may well mean the end of mankind. First Officer's log, supplemental. The Kzinti now possess a weapon potentially deadly to the entire galaxy. The extent of its power remains to be seen.

[Kzinti ship]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Have the humans moved to the surface and be sure they're secured in the police web. We will use them to test the weapon.
FLYER: Yes, Chuft-Captain.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: You have observed the aliens. Can you read their minds?
TELEPATH: I can read Sulu with difficulty, Chuft-Captain. The other human is only a female. The third is a pacifistic herbivore. Surely you would not force me to delve such minds?
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: If it is necessary. I realize the time you need to recover from each effort.

[Planet surface]
KZIN 5 (voiceover): Chuft-Captain, we have finished testing the meat that was in the stasis box. It is protoplasmic and poisonous.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: What of the picture?
TELEPATH: The human, Sulu, believes it to be a Slaver.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: So do I. It would have made a worthy enemy.
FLYER: Perhaps the toggle.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Telepath! Am I not affecting him at all? Is it the life support belt interfering?
TELEPATH: No, Chuft-Captain. He hears a faint whine, but he feels no ill effects. There is a vibration in the metal of his belt. Chuft-Captain, he is too alien. He makes me taste yellow root munched between flat teeth.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Be glad if you need not read the Vulcan's mind. It may be a communications device, or a sonic stunner designed to affect members of a race now dead.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: A good serviceable telescope. They built well, these Slavers.
FLYER: It is of no use to us. We already have small telescopes.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: I give you credit, human. You are not afraid to die.
SULU: Merely a laser. The Federation has had a more effective model for over one hundred years.
KZIN 4: Telepath's suit has ruptured.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Never mind that. The female is escaping!
KZIN 4: What of it?
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Fool! Human females are intelligent.
FLYER: Telepath's suit lost considerable pressure. We reached the ship in time to save him.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Good. We will need him later. What is this?
FLYER: Perhaps a personal rocket motor. One could place one's foot on the pedals and balance. It appears to be transportation, not a weapon.
SULU: Nice try.
UHURA: I'm slowing down. I used to run the hundred in record time. How long was I out? Did I miss much?
SULU: Not much. A lot of good they'll get out of that rocket setting.
SPOCK: We are fortunate none of the settings so far have been superior to the technology now available to the Federation.
UHURA: Uh oh.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: No gun sight. No obvious was to aim it.
UHURA: Mister Spock, I can move.
SULU: So can I. The police web is off.
SPOCK: The fifth setting seems to be an energy absorber. Fascinating. I had no idea the Slavers had such things.
SULU: Mister Spock, we
SPOCK: Yes. When I give the word, make for the shuttle. Remember to zigzag. Ready? Go.
FLYER: Chuft-Captain, what happened?
CAPTAIN: I would rather not discuss it. Help me into the ship.
SULU: Mister Spock! I thought it was one of the aliens.
SPOCK: I have the weapon.
SULU: They've got Uhura, and subspace radio. They can call for help from the Kzin planet if they think the weapon's worth it.
SPOCK: No, they cannot. Or rather, will not.
SULU: Why?
SPOCK: Because I kicked Chuft-Captain. Consider. Chuft-Captain has been attacked by an herbivorous pacifist, an eater of leaves and roots. One who traditionally does not fight. And the ultimate insult, I left him alive. Chuft-Captain's honor is at stake. He must seek personal revenge before he can call for help.
SULU: That gives us some time. You did plan it that way?
SPOCK: Of course.
SULU: As long as you stay free, the Kzinti can't or won't do anything. But they could use Lieutenant Uhura as a bribe.
SPOCK: Agreed. However, to this point, we have not seen anything more powerful than equipment Starfleet already has.
SULU: Yes. But I have a feeling, Mister Spock. This weapon must have belonged to a spy, an espionage agent.
SPOCK: I acknowledge your expertise in the field of weapons, Mister Sulu, but I do not see how you can determine probable ownership.
SULU: Well, here, look at it. All these settings. We don't know a common Slaver soldier couldn't handle them, but as a weapon, only the laser is effective. The others aren't necessary for the line soldier's one purpose, to destroy the enemy.
SPOCK: Assuming it's a spy weapon then, the Slavers would have wanted to keep it a secret weapon. If so, it is logical to assume it has a self-destruct setting too.
SULU: But we've seen all the phases.
SPOCK: Perhaps not. There is the null setting. It seems to do nothing. But why should it be there? It does not correspond to a safety lock.
SULU: It may be the key to another setting.

[Kzinti ship]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: This is the Traitor's Claw calling Mister Sulu.

[Planet surface]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN (voiceover): We have the female prisoner. Will you bargain, or must we take harsh action? It will not be pleasant for her. I repeat. We have the female prisoner as hostage. You have something we want. We will trade her life for the Slaver weapon.
SPOCK: Answer him, Lieutenant.
SULU: Lieutenant Sulu here. What about Mister Spock?
CHUFT-CAPTAIN (voiceover): He must surrender. I will offer him single combat.
SULU: Not interested.

[Kzinti ship]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: I am as the Vulcan left me, with two ribs broken. I have not set them nor bandaged myself. He may conceivably kill me.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Kzinti ribs have some vertical bracing. But I kicked him over one heart. I compute the odds of my defeating Chuft-Captain in combat at sixteen to one against.
SULU: Offer refused.

[Kzinti ship]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: They think very little of you.
UHURA: Wrong. They don't think much of you.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: A self-destruct mechanism would not have a gun sight.
SULU: No. Let's see what this does do.
SULU: We can't give them that!
SPOCK: Fascinating. No world in the Federation has produced anything so powerful. Almost beyond theoretical limits. Total conversion of matter to energy at a distance.
SULU: If the Kzinti had that, the whole galaxy would be their dinner table.
SULU: Hit the dirt!

[Kzinti ship]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: What would this be?
FLYER: I have no idea. It is generating power.
SPOCK: There is a grid. It may be another communications device. But that seems redundant.
SULU: It has the Kzinti frightened.
SPOCK: The Kzinti have legends of weapons haunted by their owners.
UHURA: Could it be a voice-activated mechanism?
SPOCK: No, it appears to be conversing with them. A reasoning computer that small?
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: How long has it been since you were turned off?
WEAPON: I do not know. When I am off, I have no sense of passing time.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: What is the last thing you remember?
WEAPON: We were on a mission. I may not tell you of it unless you know certain code words.
FLYER: If you could describe the positions of the stars in your sector, we would know how much time has passed since then.
WEAPON: Without certain code words, I may not describe our location.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: One of the settings on this weapon was a total conversion beam. We saw it. Tell us how to find it.
WEAPON: Twist me widdershins until you reach the null position. Then
SULU: They've got it.
UHURA: There must be something we can do.
SPOCK: Most peculiar.
SPOCK: That was not the total conversion beam setting.

[Planet surface]
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Like others, this form seems to possess no gun sight.
FLYER: It may be a broad-beam weapon, for use only from orbit. We saw its power. I suggest you fire at a very distant target.
CHUFT-CAPTAIN: Very well.

[Kzinti ship]
UHURA: We can't let them have that weapon.
SPOCK: They are not about to get it, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Why not?
SPOCK: Assume you are a Slaver war computer. You've been turned off. You do not know for how long, but when you were turned off, there was a war on. Now you are awakened by aliens you never saw before. They do not know any of the military passwords. They ask you so many questions it is obvious they know little about you. Your owner is nowhere about. What would you think?
UHURA: I'd think I'd been captured by the enemy. Or an enemy, at least.
SULU: And when they asked you how to find your most powerful weapon setting, what would you give them?
SPOCK: Activate life support belts.
UHURA: A disrupter field.
SPOCK: Yes. Another conventional weapon. It appears the total conversion beam was the only thing the Slavers had that we do not.

[Planet surface]
SULU: No sign of the weapon, of course. It would have looked nice in some museum.
SPOCK: It never would have reached the museum, Lieutenant. There was too much power in that one setting. If not the Kzinti, the Klingons or some other species would have tried to possess it.

[Shuttlecraft]
SPOCK: Strange, how the past sometimes breaks through into the present. That ancient war could have sparked a new war between man and Kzinti.
UHURA: Didn't you say the Kzinti have legends of weapons haunted by their dead owners?
SPOCK: Yes, an ancient superstition.
UHURA: At this rate, they'll never get over those old superstitions.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5499.9. We are orbiting the planet Argo. Argo was once a land planet, but it's surface is now almost completely covered by water. The change was caused by violent seismic disturbances. Our mission is to study the effects which the quakes and other phenomena had on its surface. This knowledge may save millions of lives on a Federation planet identical to Argo which will soon be undergoing similar transformation.

[Shuttlecraft]
KIRK: This is the largest land mass on the planet, isn't it, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. The others are mere outcroppings. They suggest the peaks of submerged mountains.
MCCOY: I suggest that we get these seawater and algae specimens. They're the least of the lot.
SPOCK: For once I agree with you, Doctor. The more informative specimens will come from the sea bottom.
KIRK: Lieutenant Clayton, open the hatch and let our two scientists here get on with their business.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: What's that?
KIRK: Phasers on stun, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Firing, Captain.
MCCOY: What the devil was that thing?
SPOCK: Apparently a life form which previous surveys have not recorded.
KIRK: Let's get a closer look at it before the phaser stun wears off. Submerge, Lieutenant.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Dual respiratory system. Lungs and gills.
SPOCK: Its skeleton is similar to that of a Denebian whale, Captain.
KIRK: It's regaining consciousness. Surface, Mister Clayton.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock, prepare to fire phasers.
SPOCK: Phasers do not respond, Captain. We must have sustained damage to the power pack when the creature struck us.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Emergency.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise. What is it, sir.
KIRK: We're under attack. Beam us aboard, Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): We've lost contact, Captain.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Repeat, we've lost contact. Come in, Captain. Come in. Ship's log, stardate 5504.2. Lieutenant Commander Scott in command. Captain Kirk and First Officer Spock have been missing for almost five days. Search parties can find no trace of them or the aqua-shuttle. Doctor McCoy and I are continuing the search at a greater distance from the attack point.

[Boat]
MCCOY: There's nothing. There's just nothing.
CLAYTON: I see some rocks. They're just above sea level, about two miles away. There's something on them.

[Rocks]
MCCOY: Maybe they're still alive.
MCCOY: Their bodies are functioning. Metabolism, heart. Everything but the lungs.
KIRK: Can't breathe. Suffocating. Help. Can't breathe.
SCOTT: What happened to them, Doctor? What is it?
MCCOY: Something's changed their whole lung structure. They can't live in the air anymore. Medical log, stardate 5506.2. Captain Kirk and First Office Spock were rescued forty eight hours ago. They have no recollection of what happened to them after they were attacked, but medical examinations show and unidentified substance in the bloodstream has affected their entire metabolism and changed them into water-breathers. Their internal structure is completely transformed, and even their eyes are covered with a transparent film like the second eyelid of a fish. So far all efforts to return them to normal have failed.

[Aquarium]
MCCOY: We're stumped, Jim. The hormone seems to be the major factor in your mutation, but we just can't identify it.
KIRK: Are you sure the mutation wasn't somehow accomplished naturally?
MCCOY: It was infused into your bodies at key structural points. It had to be done by injection.
KIRK: But can't you duplicate it, Bones? Your medical computers have information on every procedure in the Federation's hospitals.
MCCOY: It's highly sophisticated and completely unknown to us.
SPOCK: That implies there are intelligent life forms on Argo.
MCCOY: The sensors don't indicate any life forms down there, aside from fish.
SPOCK: They did fail to indicate the large marine creature that attacked us. Perhaps the readings are incomplete, blocked by underwater pressure forces. Oceans are less turbulent at greater depth. Such conditions would be more suitable to intelligent forms.
MCCOY: Well, we can't do much underwater exploration without the aqua-shuttle. Our equipment is too limited.
KIRK: We aren't limited. We can go wherever we want in that ocean.
MCCOY: It's too risky, Jim. Argo's almost totally unexplored. You'd be out of contact range, unarmed.
KIRK: I have to, Bones. Look at this place. A tank. I can't command a ship from inside an aquarium. I can't live in here.
MCCOY: I know what you're saying, Jim, but if you go down on that planet and you die there
KIRK: Right now we have only two choices. Live in an aquarium somewhere for the rest of our lives or stay on Argo. I won't accept either one of them.
MCCOY: What about you, Spock? What does your logic tell you?
SPOCK: The Captain states the case emotionally, of course, but correctly. I would be of little value to this ship if I am confined to a tank in Sickbay. I must accompany the Captain.
KIRK: An intelligence that can produce this kind of mutation can change us back. We've got to find it, Bones. It must be there.

[Boat]
KIRK: We'll make contact as soon as possible, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Sea bed]
MALE: Go away, air breathers. You're not wanted here.
KIRK: We won't harm you. We're friends.
FEMALE: Leave us. It is enough our young saved your lives once. If you go on, nothing will save you again.
KIRK: Wait. Listen.
MALE: Go away.
KIRK: I don't understand. They said they'd saved us once.
SPOCK: I believe the phrase was, 'our young saved your lives once.'
KIRK: Yes, and they didn't seem to approve. The answer appears to be in that direction, Spock.
SPOCK: I would say so, Captain. The instinctive reaction of all frightened creatures is to retreat to a place of safety.
SPOCK: Fascinating. And beautiful.
KIRK: An undersea civilisation capable of fantastic architecture. Medical triumphs unheard of in our galaxy. Why should they be afraid of us, Spock?
SPOCK: It is quite possible, Captain, that they find us grotesque and ugly. And many people fear beings different from themselves.
KIRK: Well, speculation isn't much help. We have to get in there.
SPOCK: Perhaps there is a way open on the far side. There is much less activity there.
KIRK: That building in the center. It seems to be important.

[Chamber]
DOMAR: You stand before the Ruling Tribunal of the Aquans. I am Domar, the High Tribune.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk of the starship Enterprise. This is my first officer, Mister Spock.
DOMAR: You are air-breather enemies from the surface. We have expected spies for a long time.
SPOCK: We came here in peace, Tribune.
CADMAR: The ancient records warn that air-breathers never come in peace.
RILA: They came without weapons.
MALE: Can we do nothing without consulting the ancient records?
CADMAR: Why do the Junior Tribunes wish always to change the records?
DOMAR: Let the mesh be removed, but stand ready.
MALE: The surgo-op was excellent. They have mutated perfectly.
KIRK: Your scientists induced these mutations?
DOMAR: We do not wish to kill, even air-breathers. Your memory was eradicated so you could not return here.
CADMAR: It would seem their ancient records are as well preserved as ours. They found us again to come among us as spies.
RILA: You do not give them a chance to defend themselves, Cadmar.
DOMAR: Rila is correct. You may speak.
KIRK: We are visitors to your planet. We come from another world.
RILA: You do not live on the surface places?
SPOCK: Not on this world.
CADMAR: Enough! Clearly, this is a lie. The air-breathers have come again to destroy us.
SPOCK: You are mistaken, sir. Our only purpose here is to find the means of reversing our mutations.
DOMAR: That is impossible. Only Aquan mutation is designated by the surgo-records.

[Boat]
MCCOY (voiceover): Enterprise to Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Scott here. What is it, Doctor?
MCCOY: Sensors just gave us an update reading, Scotty. There's a seaquake due in that area, a bad one. Complete topography changes.
SCOTT: How soon?

[Bridge]
MCCOY: Within four hours. When are Jim and Spock due to make contact?
SCOTT (voiceover): About the same time.
MCCOY: Can you contact them sooner?
SCOTT (voiceover): We can try like blue blazes. Scott out.

[Boat]
SCOTT: Their directional marker indicates they descended toward that fern bed.

[Underwater]
FEMALE: Air-breathers. We must inform the Tribunes.

[Chamber]
KIRK: The name of our starship is on the aqua-shuttle. If you want proof, examine the wreckage.
RILA: Yes. Let us examine the wreckage before we make judgment.
FEMALE: We have news, High Tribune.
DOMAR: Speak it.
FEMALE: Three air-breathers have invaded the sea foliage. We saw them as we gathered edibles.
DOMAR: Do you still believe these creatures came in peace?
RILA: We do not know what to believe.
DOMAR: Take these spies to the surface boulders and leave them there. It is justice enough for our enemies.
RILA: Conserve your strength. I will free you. The mesh is too strong.
KIRK: Go to the big island. Bring assistance party.

[Boat]
CLAYTON: Did you see anything?
SCOTT: Not a sign of them. Wait a minute. Who are
RILA: Follow me. Your friends need help.

[Rocks]
RILA: There.
SCOTT: Quick, lads.
SCOTT: Stand by in the scouter-gig, Lieutenant.

[Underwater]
KIRK: Rila, this is my engineering officer, Mister Scott. Tribune Rila is an Aquan. Their city is a short distance away.
SCOTT: We're obliged for your help. Captain, we've been trying to contact you for two hours. There's a sea bottom quake due. It'll destroy this whole area.
RILA: There are legends of such a happening. It destroyed the ancient knowledge and caused the great surface places to sink into the sea.
SPOCK: That suggests your race evolved from its ancient enemies.
RILA: We did not evolve, Mister Spock. When the surface places began to sink, many air-breathers were mutated through surgo-op, just as you were. As the centuries passed, the mutations became hereditary.
KIRK: Strange that such a highly developed race would be violent.
SPOCK: Apparently they were exposed to a frightening geological disaster. Such hardship induces savagery and violence.
RILA: They hunted and killed us. We feared they would contaminate us with their violence. That is also why it is forbidden to mutate back to surface forms.
KIRK: Then reverse mutation is possible.
RILA: There are legends of sealed places in the sunken ruins where many knowledge records of it are kept.
SCOTT: There's not much time, Captain. The quake's due in less than two hours.
KIRK: How far are the ruins, Rila?
RILA: Only a short distance.
KIRK: Those old records may hold the key to reversing our mutations. We've got to find them before it's too late.
RILA: I cannot take you to the ruins. It is against ordainments.
KIRK: It's important, Rila. Not just for us. The population of another planet is threatened by surface changes, too. Argo's ancient knowledge can help save them.
RILA: Yes. I will take you as far as the reef barrier.

[Barrier]
RILA: The ruins lie that way. Now, take care. The tides are strong.

[Ruins]
SPOCK: Fascinating. Obviously, an entire portion of the continental shelf sank within a few minutes. This may be the sealed place Rila mentioned. I believe this is an entrance panel, Captain.
KIRK: There's another chamber.

[Chamber]
SPOCK: This resembles ancient medical symbols, Captain. The torso indicates mutation.
KIRK: That's it, Spock. The key to the survival of the race.

[Aquarium]
MCCOY: If the universal translator is right, the substance in your bloodstream is similar to the ambergris of Earth whales. Reverse mutation is induced by infusion of an antitoxin, concentrated doses of it.
KIRK: What's the composition of the antitoxin, Bones?
MCCOY: It's made from the venom of the Argo sur-snake.

[Underwater]
KIRK: To capture a sur-snake, we need your help. Our people can't descend to that depth.
NEPHRO: Domar has warned that if we break more ordainments, we will be exiled to the open seas.
SPOCK: We cannot reverse our mutations without the serum, nor can the Aquans benefit from the knowledge of their ancestors.
NEPHRO: But the ordainments state clearly that capturing sur-snakes is forbidden.
MALE: Ordainments are useless in times of turbulence. Only knowledge will help us.
RILA: Nephro, we must break the ordainments.

[Ruins]
RILA: Quickly, Captain.
RILA: Quickly, we must leave.
KIRK: We need more venom.
RILA: No, no, there is no time.

[Aquarium]
MCCOY: We have prepared an antitoxin from the venom of the sur-snake, but a part of the old records is missing, so the exact dosage is unknown. Experiments on fish show that if the antitoxin is too strong, it causes over-mutation, which cannot be reversed by any means. We're running out of venom, so conclusive experiments are impossible. I decreased the strength by three quarters, Jim, but we can't be sure it's right.
KIRK: How many infusions, Bones?
MCCOY: Two small, one large.
KIRK: Well, let's get started.
MCCOY: His pulse is fading. Pulse and heart normal. Something's happening to his metabolism. It's at least ten times normal speed. Metabolism normal. Heartbeat normal. The lungs are beginning to revert. This is the last dose, the largest infusion. The antitoxin was too strong. He's starting to breathe. Quick, get him out of the tank!
MCCOY: How do you feel, Jim?
KIRK: A little dizzy. Otherwise normal.
MCCOY: Well, better get into some dry clothes. I wouldn't want you to catch cold. Your turn, Spock.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We'll bombard the unpopulated pressure areas with phaser beams and change the epicenter of the quake so it won't endanger your people or your city.
DOMAR: I did not believe such knowledge was possible.
SCOTT: Major tremors will start in three minutes, Captain.
DOMAR: It is incredible. All of it.
KIRK: Confirm co-ordinates, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Confirmed, sir.
KIRK: Fire phasers as directed, gentlemen.
AREX: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate the epicenter of the quake was in the north polar seas, Captain, a totally uninhabited area.
DOMAR: Then our people are safe.
KIRK: When can we beam down, Spock?
SPOCK: The seabed should stabilize within a few hours.

[Shoreline]
SPOCK: Argo appears to have a new city, Captain, or rather, one reborn.
RILA: Our people survived the seaquakes with little damage, thanks to your help.
DOMAR: We owe you and your friends much gratitude, Captain Kirk. We will try to repay by making the ancient records available for your studies.
SPOCK: Our experience here has shown us the means of diverting quakes. That will mean much to the endangered Federation planet.
RILA: The light is warm and the air is soft. I shall be glad when the surface places can be inhabited.
DOMAR: The young Aquans have decided to rebuild the great shelters of the air-breathers.
KIRK: Only the young Aquans?
DOMAR: Senior Aquans cannot adjust to the thought of becoming air-breathers. We will remain at the Aqua City.
KIRK: Don't lose contact with each other like your ancestors.
DOMAR: We will pass ordainments to forbid it.
RILA: And we, this time, will not ignore them.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5683.1. We're making a rendezvous with the Vedala asteroid on a unique mission. The Vedala are the oldest space faring race we know. They say something incredibly dangerous to the safety of our galaxy is developing and they have sent for selected specialists, including Spock and myself.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Maintain the Enterprise in this position, Sulu. If Spock and I survive, we'll return here. If not, Mister Scott, you have your orders. Energize.

[Forest glade]
VEDALA: Welcome, Captain James Kirk and Commander Spock. I will introduce you. First, Tchar. Hereditary prince of the Skorr, master of the eerie. Sord.
EM3GREEN: I was sentenced to this mad expedition. My people are cautious, what you would call cowards.
VEDALA: As an expert lockpick and thief, you are welcome. Em3green. Lara is a hunter. She has a flawless directional sense, a necessary skill where you are going. Mister Spock was chosen for his analytical mind and scientific expertise. Captain Kirk for his leadership and adaptability. Tchar will explain your mission.
TCHAR: Two centuries past, my people, the Skorr, were great warriors. We had advanced military technology and we could breed vast armies rapidly. But today we are a civilized people because of Alar.
KIRK: A religious leader, was he not?
TCHAR: Our salvation and our teacher. He brought us peace. He made us great. He died, and we made him immortal.
VEDALA: Alar's brain patterns were recorded before his death, in a piece of indurite sculpture.
TCHAR: Our Soul, the Soul of the Skorr, was stolen.
VEDALA: The theft triggered a racial fury in the Skorr. They are preparing for war.
KIRK: Against whom?
TCHAR: The known galaxy.
SPOCK: It is a very real threat. In two standard years, the existing Skorr could breed an army of two hundred billion warriors.
TCHAR: My government fears this, so the theft of the Soul of Alar has been kept secret. But we must recover it before my people discover it gone and go mad, launch a jihad, a holy war on the galaxy.
KIRK: Who took the Soul?
VEDALA: Unknown. The motive, as Tchar has said, to provoke a holy war.
SPOCK: Is there any clue to its location?
VEDALA: A mad planet, Geologically unstable. Constant earthquakes, gravitic shifts, tidal waves. The temperature varies from twenty Kelvin to two hundred and four above. Somewhere on that planet, the Soul of Alar is hidden. Three expeditions have tried to recover it. Three expeditions have been lost. You are the next, if you agree.
KIRK: The Vedala are a powerful race. Why haven't your people retrieved the Soul?
VEDALA: My people could not survive on that planet. You have a chance.
KIRK: We agree.
VEDALA: Then it is done.

[Barren planet]
TCHAR: I cannot feel the Soul. We are nowhere near it.
SPOCK: That is to be expected. The surface of this planet shifts constantly. Even the Vedala are not certain where the Soul is.
KIRK: It has directional equipment that keys on indurite.
SORD: I like this place, it's got variety.
EM3GREEN: I can handle the machine.
SPOCK: Our direction is indicated.
EM3GREEN: It's phasing, unfocusing.
KIRK: Why did the Vedala call this the Mad planet?
LARA: Means nothing. I can tell the way. That way.
TCHAR: Are you certain, human?
LARA: For sure, birdman. I can't get lost. I can't be fooled about directions. That's why I'm here.
SPOCK: The Vedala would not have chosen Lara if her abilities were less than perfect.
KIRK: Agreed, but we're forced to travel on the ground. I want an overview.
TCHAR: I will scout overhead.
SPOCK: The Vedala will have been efficient in equipping us. I will acquaint myself with our supplies.
LARA: Vulcans. Never liked them much myself. Cold-blooded critters, all of them.
KIRK: I wouldn't say that. Mister Spock is a unique personality.
LARA: But not human like you and me. Maybe you got different customs. My world there's a lot of females, not so many men. Come we find a man attractive, we say so. I'm saying so. How do you find me?
KIRK: Fascinating. But we're not here on a pleasure trip, Lara.
LARA: All the more reason to take what pleasure there might be in it.
SPOCK: I have checked the supplies, Captain. As expected, they are adequate and there are weapons.
KIRK: Against what? There's no life on this planet.
SPOCK: But there is, Captain. Ourselves. And there may be other things guarding the Soul of Alar.
LARA: Real weather.
KIRK: And a half.
EM3GREEN: We'll all die here.
SPOCK: A statistical probability.
LARA: You ever quote anything besides statistics, Vulcan?
SPOCK: Yes. But philosophy and poetry are not appropriate here.
TCHAR: I can see something. I can sense it, the Soul of Alar is there.
LARA: Something's coming.
SPOCK: A lava flow. Volcanic action is to be expected.
LARA: Never mind that. You got to get us out of here.
KIRK: We might be able to divert the lava flow with a barricade. Tchar, get us a visual estimate!
SPOCK: Such a diversion would be of short duration, Captain. And I must point out, the vehicle lacks sufficient speed to escape.
KIRK: Not if we used all of the power pack's energy for one high speed run.
SPOCK: It is possible, but the rewiring of the power leads is complex and time-consuming.
EM3GREEN: I could do it, if you can diagram the schematics, sir.
SPOCK: Yes, quickly then. Terminal M3 red, lead to diode shunt A37. Cross connect to A14.
TCHAR: Kirk. There is a ravine sixty meters to your left. If it can be blocked, the lava will flow past those rocks to one side.
KIRK: Got it. Sord.
SORD: I heard him.
SPOCK: Carefully, Em. One missed connection could destroy us.
EM3GREEN: I know. I'm trying to be careful.
LARA: I figure we've bought ourselves a little time. Few minutes.
SPOCK: It's re-rigged. Hurry.
SORD: Come on, insect, move it.
LARA: Twenty one degrees east. Fifty meters to get out of the flow path.
TCHAR: Hurry.
KIRK: Go.
SPOCK: Leave, all of you.
KIRK: Not without you.
SPOCK: Captain, you must get the others away.
KIRK: We're all getting away.
LARA: Close.
SPOCK: Far too close, Captain. I appreciate your action on my behalf, but your first duty is to the group and the mission.
KIRK: Quite right, Spock. And that responsibility includes not losing the best science officer in Starfleet.
SORD: You two going to argue honors, or are we going to get on with it?
LARA: Oh! And I was just going to ask, what next?
KIRK: We move on.
EM3GREEN: The power pack is burned out.
KIRK: We'll have to carry the equipment.
KIRK: Anything?
TCHAR: Wait. Yes, yes!
EM3GREEN: I can't go any farther. I'm not even afraid anymore. Just very tired.
LARA: Come on, Em, a bit more.
EM3GREEN: No. I'm finished.
KIRK: Sorry, Em. We'll be needing you. Sord.
EM3GREEN: Let me go.
SORD: Hang on.
TCHAR: I'll go ahead.
KIRK: What is it?
SORD: Not sure. Thought I saw something move in the brush.
SPOCK: There is no life on this planet.
SORD: Guess you're right. This planet just gets on your nerves.
TCHAR: I can sense the Soul. I will fly ahead, examine the building, and meet you on the way.
KIRK: Tchar, be careful. We need you, too.
KIRK: We're tired, sore, hurt and angry, but we're also just about there. I'll scout ahead. Everybody else stay together, keep moving.
LARA: I'll go with you. Remember, scouting's my job. By rights, I should be doing it alone.
SPOCK: Sord, what did you think you saw back there?
SORD: Don't know, Vulcan. A shape, couldn't really make it out. Probably seeing things, like Kirk figures.
SPOCK: There should be no life on this planet.
EM3GREEN: You keep saying that.
SPOCK: Yes. The Vedala would have informed us if there were any live beings here we should know of.
SORD: Maybe the Vedala didn't know about it.
SPOCK: That is an impossibility.
SORD: Think so? I'm not so sure.

[Near the building]
KIRK: That's it. End of a long, hard journey.
LARA: We still have to go back, James. I tell you true, I find you an attractive man. If we were together, the trip would be easier. And if anything happened, why, we'd have some green memories.
KIRK: I already have a lot of green memories.
LARA: Oh.
KIRK: Maybe some other time, Lara. We still have our work cut out for us here.
SPOCK: Is this not the shape of your people's primitive temples?
TCHAR: Yes. The entrance should be . Can you open it?
EM3GREEN: There is no lock I can't pick.
KIRK: What is it?
EM3GREEN: I'm opening the locks.
LARA: Wonderful.
EM3GREEN: No. They're on a timed trigger. If I don't get all the locks open quickly enough, it explodes.
SORD: Keep working. I'll cover you.
KIRK: They're mechanical.
SPOCK: The Vedala were right. There are no living creatures here, only the mechanized sentinels.
SORD: Hurry, small one.
KIRK: We'll hit Tchar.
LARA: What happened to Tchar?
KIRK: There's no way to tell from here. The mechanical exploded. We can't reach the roof from the outside. We'll have to try to get to him from the interior.
EM3GREEN: Done.
KIRK: We could rest awhile. Lara?
LARA: No. We've come this far.
SORD: Let's finish it. Or give this deadfall a chance to finish us.
SPOCK: I too would prefer to press on, Captain. The mechanicals on guard may be what Sord saw tracking us earlier. Or there may be others. In either case, it would be more advantageous to avoid another encounter.

[Temple]
SORD: Pretty. How do we reach it?
SPOCK: The walls are not climbable.
KIRK: Not without special equipment, which we don't have. Either we find a way to reach it from here, or we fail.
EM3GREEN: No lock on the inside. We are prisoners.
KIRK: That's right.
LARA: You're not exactly surprised.
KIRK: Three previous expeditions tried and were lost. The planet is a natural trap, but that's not enough.
SPOCK: You suggest sabotage, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, from inside each expedition. Remember Spock, you were the one who said there are no life forms here except ourselves.
EM3GREEN: One of us?
KIRK: It's likely.
SPOCK: Approximately eighty two point five percent in favor of the possibility.
KIRK: But it doesn't matter if we reach the Soul. Apparently the others didn't get this far.
SORD: I'm not built for that sort of thing. I'll wait for you down here.
SPOCK: The planet is geologically unstable. This structure is inherently flexible, enabling it to withstand earthquakes.
EM3GREEN: It can, but what about us?
KIRK: Look.
EM3GREEN: We can almost reach it.
LARA: Maybe I can get a line on it.
SPOCK: It is locked in a force field. Your rope would merely bounce off it.
KIRK: Spock, will our combined phasers disrupt the field?
SPOCK: I cannot define the field's energy base, Captain, but
KIRK: The last piece of sabotage. I know who you are. A thousand feet up, no method of reaching the Soul, except by air, by flight. Tchar.
LARA: Tchar. In the name of the Seven Gods, why?
KIRK: You stole this. You'll start a bloody crusade across the galaxy. Tell us why, Tchar.
TCHAR: The Skorr were a warrior race. Now what are we? Slaves to the illusion of peace. Cowards, soft in our comfort. This sick dream has stolen our souls. I am Tchar, hereditary prince of the Skorr, leader of battles. I will lead my people into glory, to avenge our history.
SPOCK: Most of them will be killed. The warrior races of the Federation will rise up to battle the Skorr.
TCHAR: Yes. A noble death to win a great dream. We will live no longer like worms crawling in the dirt. We will conquer. You will die. But you have my respect. You fought well. You die in grace.
EM3GREEN: He's turned on a gravity neutralizer in the building.
TCHAR: Now you can fly and fight as a Skorr.
SORD: No offense, little ones, but let me tackle him.
KIRK: Not in free fall.
EM3GREEN: Use your phaser on him.
KIRK: Too risky. He controls the fortress phaser bank, and they're set on kill. No, it has to be on his terms. Spock, how long since you've worked out in null-gravity combat exercises?
SPOCK: Last week with you, Captain.
KIRK: Let's go.
KIRK: Call for retrieval, now.
TCHAR: Let me die.
KIRK: You're going back with us.

[Forest glade]
VEDALA: We give you thanks. The Soul of Alar is returned to his people.
KIRK: What about Tchar? How are you going to punish him?
VEDALA: He will be healed of his madness. He is proud, brave. That he will remain, but he will also be sane and whole again. We cannot reward you. For the good of the Skorr, this must be forever secret. You have only our thanks.
SORD: Got nowhere to keep a medal, anyway. But there'll be questions.
VEDALA: No. You will return and you will see, there will be no questions, no medals, only our thanks. And in time, even the memory will be gone from you.
LARA: Goodbye, James Kirk. Too bad.

[Transporter room]
SULU: Captain. Mister Spock, what happened?
KIRK: What do you mean?
SULU: You transported over and came right back. Did they call it off?
SPOCK: How long were we gone?
SULU: Long? About two minutes, I guess. I don't understand.
KIRK: The Vedala changed their minds. The danger is past. Back to your stations. We have a lot of other places to go.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5577.3. We are approaching the remains of the burnt out supernova Arachna. Requested update survey will begin with measurements of its radiation and volume expansion.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Arachna is entering its cycle of strongest emissions, Captain.
KIRK: Uhura, inform Starbase Twenty Three we have arrived at the gas cloud and are starting to map.
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting some interference on subspace extreme upper registers. If it's a signal, I don't recognize it.
KIRK: Source?
UHURA: The star Cepheus. From its single satellite. That area's never produced radio transmissions before.
KIRK: Put it on the speaker.
SPOCK: Signals appear random. Perhaps some are beyond our reception capability.
KIRK: Could be a natural radio source newly energized by
SPOCK: Correction. One isolated word pattern detected. If you accept intersat code as still operative.
UHURA: Intersat? That's been out of use for two centuries.
SPOCK: The code word is t-e-r-r-a-t-i-n.
UHURA: It's stopped now, sir. No response at all to our signal.
SPOCK: Computers show no immediate information on the word terratin.
KIRK: Was the word totally random, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: No, sir. It was repeated twice in the transmission.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, lay in a course for Cepheus.
SULU: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, you don't mean you're going to abandon the mapping mission to check out some meaningless signal?
KIRK: Meaningless at the moment, Bones, but it was sent twice. Odds against that occurring in a totally random transmission are too high to ignore. There may be some intelligence trying to contact us. Mister Spock, continue research on the word terratin.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: It's a waste of time if you ask me.
SPOCK: Only data is from early exploration. Planet is listed as Class M, core molten, mantle and crust entirely crystalline.
KIRK: But nothing in the computer banks about surface eruptions. There's our likely radio source, simply crystalline projections of recent volcanic activity.
KIRK: Set for a single elliptic orbit.
SULU: Aye, sir. Entering orbit now.
SPOCK: I register a disturbance, Captain. As if an impulse just passed through the ship.
KIRK: Type and source?
SPOCK: Unidentified. It's extremely faint and diffused. Captain, I suggest we delay orbit until it can be analyzed for nature and effect.
KIRK: Bridge reports.
SULU: All instruments functioning, ship's condition normal, all area status lights are green.
AREX: Sensors detect nothing abnormal, sir.
KIRK: Bridge to Engineering. Scotty, how are your engines?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Purring like happy kittens, Captain.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Bridge to Sickbay. Bones, we've just recorded an unidentified impulse. Any effect on sensitive lab animals?

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: Nothing, Jim. The gossamer mice show no signs of shock.
CHAPEL: Our halo fish is bright as ever, Doctor. Now, this species loses all color at the least environmental change.
KIRK (voiceover): Very well.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Well, Spock, your x-waves seem harmless enough. Make your analysis while we proceed into orbit. Commence your sensor sweep, Mister Arex.
AREX: Sensors show crystalline surface heavily fractured by lava flows. Ash and smoke suspended in oxygen-nitrogen atmos
AREX: My eyes!
KIRK: Anyone hurt here?
VARIOUS: No, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Arex?
AREX: No injury, sir.
UHURA: Damage reports, all ship areas, damage reports.
SULU: All instruments functioning normally. Maintaining orbit. But strictly on impulse power, sir.
SPOCK: Wave bombardment reduced, but continuing. Deflector shields ineffective.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: No casualties reported, Jim.

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): What happened?
KIRK: Don't know yet.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Engineering. No casualties, Captain, but trouble aplenty with the engines. Every dilithium crystal connection's smashed in the warp engine circuitry. We're trying to bypass them now.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What about main circuits?
SCOTT: Well, you have to see it to believe it, sir. Those big crystals in there have come apart. Each of them unpeeling like the rind of an orange.

[Engineering]
KIRK: Analysis, Spock.
SCOTT: Our only hope now is rewiring impulse. But there are a thousand broken connections.
SPOCK: Captain, this is quite unprecedented. Notice the fracturing is spiro-form, similar to long chain molecules.
KIRK: But dilithium molecules are the hardest, most rigid
GABLER: Mister Scott! More trouble with the circuit work.
SCOTT: What now, Gabler?
GABLER: All the tools, sir. They're too big for us to handle.
SCOTT: You sound like you're blathering, man. Wait, I'm coming.
KIRK: Spock, are you slumping?
SPOCK: I have never slumped in my life, Captain, but I was about to ask you the same
BRIEL (voiceover): Security! Anyone, please! Mess Officer Briel requesting help in the Main Dining Room. Tables, chairs, silverware, everything seems to have enlarged. Women losing rings, hairpins. Some are near panic.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, the most incredible thing is happening.
KIRK: We know. The whole ship has apparently expanded.
SPOCK: An equally good possibility is that ship's personnel have contracted, and may be continuing to shrink.
KIRK: Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Shut down all unnecessary systems. Get every ounce of impulse power. We've got to get away from this planet.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5577.5. Our limited power attempt to escape the planet's gravity has failed. Undefined wave bombardment continues, resulting in a contraction of our bodies, or an expansion of the ship, by a factor of point three.

[Bridge]
UHURA: No reply to our mayday, Captain. I don't believe we have enough power to transmit to Starbase Twenty Three.
KIRK: Very well. Spock, what have you learned about the wave bombarding us?
SPOCK: Only that it is complex beyond anything in my experience.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here. How are they holding out, Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): We've replaced all the damaged parts we can. With all that's draining them, the well will soon enough run dry, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty. Kirk out. Uhura, reduce mayday signals. One per ten minute cycle. Cut down sensor sweeps, Mister Arex.
AREX: Visual sweeps are already impossible, sir. My eyes no longer fit the opticals.
UHURA: And I can't reach the dial I turned five minutes ago.
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): Sickbay. McCoy here.
KIRK: Bones, I need some answers. What's happening to us?
MCCOY (voiceover): Come down tot the lab, Jim. I may have something for you now.

[Medical lab]
MCCOY: There's the test tissue, Jim, compared with the stable infrared.
KIRK: Then Spock's theory is right. We're contracting.
MCCOY: That's why our weight remains the same, same number of atoms. The effect is just reducing the space between the molecules. It's something I've never seen before.
SPOCK: Agreed. And it is accelerating.
KIRK: How long can it keep on?
SPOCK: Ad infinitum, perhaps, considering distance between atoms is relatively as great as between stars.
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy, the animals! They're getting too small for the cage mesh. All the gossamers are out. And look how tiny they've gotten. They're just like halo fish. It's tadpole-sized now.
SPOCK: Miss Chapel, what is the composition of this decoration?
CHAPEL: It was made for me by the titanium smiths of Libra, but it was an arm bracelet. More like a necklace now.
SPOCK: Yet the uniform on which you wear it fits as well as ever. Uniform made of algae-based xenylon, I believe.
MCCOY: Aren't all our uniforms xenylon?
KIRK: Yes, and they've all been shrinking proportionately with us.
SPOCK: This coral decoration for the aquarium is also shrinking. yet the meteoritic rock in there is unchanged.
MCCOY: That means only organic matter is affected. But how?
SPOCK: The wave tends to wind tight such spiral molecules as dilithium. There is one other molecular structure
KIRK: Of course, the double helix of DNA, nucleus of every cell in our bodies. What happens when DNA is compacted completely?
MCCOY: The strands wouldn't break, Jim, they'd just quit winding.
KIRK: Then we can calculate the limits to our shrinkage.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: It's possible. I'll feed the data into the computer banks.
KIRK: Something else we'd better determine first. How long can we expect to maintain control of our ship?
SPOCK: The computer will project the point at which systems' switches and buttons will be beyond our ability to operate.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5577.7. We will lose effective control of this vessel at the point when we've become approximately one centimeter tall. At the present rate, we will reach this less-than-fingernail length in thirty two minutes.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock, how small will we ultimately shrink?
SPOCK: No information on that as yet, sir. I do have one read-out on full spiroid wave analysis. That will take approximately eight years.
KIRK: Bypass that analysis. We've got twenty nine minutes before we're too small to operate ship controls. Everyone continue to jury-rig miniature control mechanisms. There's nothing more we can do.
SULU: But there is, Captain. Request permission to direct phaser fire at the planet. Just let me set for ten seconds, sir.
KIRK: Aiming at what, Mister Sulu? So far all source studies have shown the waves come from an area as large as one sixth the planet's surface. Phaser fire will only waste power.
SULU: What good will it do to wait like this? Just one burst sir, one single
KIRK: Sulu! I think his leg's broken. We'll need a splint.
KIRK: Let's get him to Sickbay. Every one back to stations.
KIRK: The electric eye. We've grown too small to make it work.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: What happened?
KIRK: He fell from the console top.
MCCOY: More and more fall injuries coming. Compound fracture.
CHAPEL: Oh, if only we could use our bone-knitting laser. Doctor McCoy. That microscope laser, the one designed to heal the middle ear, wouldn't it work here?
MCCOY: It's certainly worth a try.
CHAPEL: It's in the lab shelf supplies. I'll get it.

[Medical lab]
CHAPEL: Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
CHAPEL: Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
KIRK: No more climbing heights for you, Nurse. Got that clear?
CHAPEL: Yes, Captain. But I've also got the miniature laser.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: How is it, Sulu?
SULU: I can feel it knitting, sir.
SPOCK: Results on DNA reduction limits have come through, Captain.
KIRK: What are they?
SPOCK: Factor of thirty two point nine.
KIRK: In other words, we're going down to one sixteenth of an inch high.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Well past the operative point of Enterprise controls.
KIRK: Can you calculate the geographic center of the wave emissions from the planet's surface?
SPOCK: Easily, Captain. May I ask the purpose?
KIRK: It's as good a place as any to beam down.
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering. Scotty, can you hear me?
SCOTT (voiceover): Barely, sir.
KIRK: Get a crew down to transporter room three. We have twenty minutes left while we can still operate transporter controls.
SCOTT (voiceover): How many beaming down, Captain?
KIRK: One, Scotty. Myself.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. There is one last measure we can take to try and stop the bombardment of the lethal spiroid wave. There must be some intelligence behind it. I'm going to attempt direct communication by beaming down to the planet's surface. We have no reason to expect success, but our height is little more than two inches and even this action will be beyond us in fifteen minutes time.

[Transporter room]
SPOCK: This is the best I could do in rigging so small a communicator, sir.
KIRK: Thanks, Spock.
SPOCK: It's range cannot be guaranteed. How will we pinpoint you for return in case it fails?
KIRK: Scotty, set automatic return for me. If there's anything to be found down there, ten minutes should do it.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Timer being set.
SPOCK: Captain, the transporter retains a memory of the body's molecular structure. Will it apply as well to your present height?
KIRK: We'll know that in ten minutes. After that, it won't matter anymore. Prepare to energize.
SPOCK: Good luck, sir.
KIRK: Energize!
SCOTT: All right then. Heave, lads. Heave!

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. I think we have an answer to the height problem. The transporter beam apparently returns our molecules to normal spacing. Kirk to Enterprise, do you read me?
SPOCK (voiceover): We read you, Captain. Wave bombardment has just ceased.
KIRK: I think I see

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Scotty? Spock?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, is it you?
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. For the love of heaven, be careful where you step.
KIRK: Is everyone safe?
SCOTT: Captain, you'll deafen us for sure!
KIRK: Everyone accounted for?
SCOTT: All but the Bridge crew, sir! They were trying to man their posts here when all of a sudden they were beamed away. Every living one of them!
KIRK: All personnel, away from helm area. Go to the far bulkhead.
KIRK: Message to the inhabitants of the city on the planet below. I hope you can receive this frequency and understand my words. Your survival depends on it. All this ship's armament is locked on the co-ordinates of your city. A demonstration, in case you doubt.
KIRK: You have one minute to restore my Bridge crew unharmed, or you will undergo full barrage.
MENDANT (screen): In the name of the Terratin people, I forbid you to destroy us, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: You forbid me after what you've done to my people?
MENDANT (screen): I am Mendant of all this city, equal in command to yourself. We are people of pride, Captain, equal to your own. We neither suffer insult nor give apology for actions. But I give them now, for damage done your starship. Be assured, this land contains much dilithium to replace that you lost.
KIRK: Where are my officers?
MENDANT (screen): I request you to understand. We tried to tell you our plight as you passed, that our adopted planet is dying. But our great antenna was buried. We had no choice but to use our invasion defense to reach you.
KIRK: You still haven't answered my question. Either you tell me what's happened to my people
SULU (screen): We're down here in the Capitol building of the Terratins, sir. They beamed us down with their transporters. See for yourself.
KIRK: Spock, who are the Terratins? Where'd they come from?

[Capitol]
SPOCK: Descendants of an early lost colony, which is why they retain some knowledge of starship methods such as transporter mechanisms. These Earth colonists named and numbered this planet Terra Ten.

[Bridge]
SPOCK (voiceover): Hence the present corruption of their name.
KIRK: There've been no Earth colonists a sixteenth of an inch tall.

[Capitol]
SPOCK: Exactly why they were lost, Captain. Spirod epsilon waves are natural here, and shrank them to this size. It has become a genetic characteristic now.

[Bridge]
MENDANT (screen): Our ancestors were too small ever to be found again, Captain Kirk. We had to build our own world, master our own ways, our own defense. We sought no outsiders, asked no help. Now you see, Captain Kirk. We are about to lose all. We had to force help from your ship.
KIRK: Your actions all but lost us our ship.
MENDANT (screen): I do not know how to beg. I can only request. Save as many of my people as you can.

[Capitol]
UHURA: They had no other way to reach us except to make us their size. They didn't mean us harm, sir.

[Bridge]
KIRK: I can help no one under present conditions. All Bridge crew prepare to beam aboard. Each of you carry as much dilithium as you can find.
MENDANT (screen): The Captain orders dilithium. Bring the largest crystals in the city.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Bridge crew, prepare to beam up.

[Capitol]
SPOCK: Energize, Captain.

[Transporter room]
UHURA: Nice to be back aboard, sir, and fitting the room again.
KIRK: All crew personnel report to Transporter rooms immediately. Prepare to beam down to planet surface.
SPOCK: The Terratins are making available all possible dilithium. The crystals are small, but I believe they will provide enough power until we can obtain larger pieces.
KIRK: Sulu, take over the transporter here. Spock.

[Capitol]
MENDANT: Inform your captain. Great earth cracks will soon swallow all. He must tell us. Shall we prepare to be rescued or to die?

[Bridge]
KIRK: How's the helm, Sulu?
SULU: Responsive, sir.
UHURA: Subspace radio now operational, sir. Starbase Twenty Three is reading.
SCOTT: Last of the crew beamed up, sir. Dilithium supplies are fully restored.
KIRK: Mister Arex, prepare for immediate departure from this area.
SPOCK: Captain, what about the people on the planet?
KIRK: Mister Sulu, direct forward phasers at the Terratin city. Set for pinpoint fire pattern.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Spock, the macroscope. Mendant, we welcome your people aboard the Enterprise.
MENDANT (voiceover): Captain Kirk, we welcome your eye upon our city.
KIRK: We're now headed for your new home. The planet Verdanis, ten days distant.
MENDANT (voiceover): Is it beautiful, as we were told?
KIRK: Very beautiful, much like Earth.
MENDANT (voiceover): People of the Enterprise, we have no way to pay the debt we owe. But this at least comes from a meeting of all our numbers. We name you honorary Terratins now, and for all time to come.
SPOCK: We came rather close to making it more than honorary.
KIRK: Yes, I'd say just about a sixteenth of an inch close.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Lilliputian city is to be taken to Verdanis and relocated on a fertile and well-watered plain. Then we'll be able to call the Terratin incident closed.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5501.2. We are orbiting the planet Lactra Seven. Our mission is to discover the whereabouts or fate of a six member science crew. Voice contact having yielded nothing, a landing party beamed aboard to see if the deserted ship's log and computers could give us any information.

[Briefing room]
MARKEL (screen): It is now thirty two minutes since our last contact with the three members of our crew on the planet surface. As the senior officer aboard, I, Lieutenant Commander Markel, have made the following decision. The three remaining crew members, myself included, will beam down to effect a rescue. If, for any reason, we do not return, be it known that
KIRK: It was against all orders.
MCCOY: The need was apparently desperate.
KIRK: The Captain of a ship, no matter his rank, must follow the book.
SPOCK: A capability, I'm afraid, out of the reach of most humans.
MCCOY: You Vulcans are the most impossible, unimaginative
KIRK: Bones, that's not helping the situation.
MCCOY: Sorry, Jim.
KIRK: Mister Spock, what can we expect to find on Lactra Seven?
SPOCK: It's a class M planet, gravity Earth normal, atmosphere Earth normal. There is no previous information available except that which the survey ship logged before her crew left her.
KIRK: According to their lot, they beamed down six weeks ago.
SPOCK: Five weeks, three days, two hours and four minutes to be exact, Captain.
KIRK: Careless of me, Mister Spock. Planetary life forms?
SPOCK: It certainly can support life forms. But I cannot speculate on what type without further data. Mister Arex is conducting a sensor scan now.
KIRK: It will take too long to do a comprehensive scan. I want a landing party to at least beam down to the last known co-ordinates the other crew used.
MCCOY: Jim, if the others are lost, why take the risk?
KIRK: Because they may not be dead. We have to find out.
MCCOY: It's still a risk.
KIRK: That's why we're here, Bones. Gentlemen, we'll travel light. Phasers, tricorders, communicators and medical kit.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: You have the co-ordinates from the other ship, Scotty. Put us down in the same place.
SCOTT: Sir, Mister Arex has located a variety of life forms on the planet. No large groups or city clusters yet.
KIRK: Then we'll beam back up.
SPOCK: Logical, Captain.
KIRK: Energize, Mister Scott.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Everyone all right?
MCCOY: Ten yards the other way and we'd be boiled alive.
SPOCK: Unusual that such a lake would exist under these planetary conditions.
KIRK: Er, Spock.
SPOCK: Most remarkable.
KIRK: It may be able to navigate on land.
MCCOY: I know it can.
KIRK: Phasers on stun!
KIRK: Let's get out of here.
MCCOY: Not a very welcome sight, is it?
KIRK: I'll see if I can pick up anything on my communicator. This is Captain Kirk of the USS Enterprise, calling the crew of the Ariel. Come in please. Come in.
MCCOY: They're answering. Did you get a fix on that, Jim?
KIRK: Yes. That way.
MCCOY: Strange you didn't get a voice reply.
SPOCK: There could be many reasons why we did not.
MCCOY: Never mind counting them.
KIRK: Phasers on stun!
SPOCK: It seems to gather strength from our phasers. In my opinion.
KIRK: Concentrate on the underside of the neck.
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: Right here. You all right?
SPOCK: I am undamaged. Where is Doctor McCoy?
KIRK: It came from back there.
KIRK: We'll get you out, Bones.
SPOCK: It would appear a more logical solution is in order, Captain. We don't lift the tail off, we dig the Doctor out.
MCCOY: Thanks. The air was running out under there.
KIRK: Were you hurt?
MCCOY: No, just surprised. It isn't every day a dinosaur falls on you. This is a pretty strange place.
KIRK: Agreed. How much desert do we have to cross, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: One point one kilometers, sir.
KIRK: We'd better pick up our pace. There's no place for cover if we meet any other creatures. The bearing on the signal we heard is that way.
SPOCK: Captain, the beast, did it seem familiar to you?
KIRK: I've seen something very like it on Canopus Three, but that's light years from here. Still, this desert area is the same as on Canopus.
SPOCK: You propose the same environment necessarily prompts the same evolution?
MCCOY: My shoes are full of sand.
SPOCK: Doctor, your lack of scientific interest is amazing.
MCCOY: I'll be happy to discuss that with you, Mister Spock, next time you drop in to my medical lab.
MCCOY: Oh, this seems a lot more friendly than the desert.
SPOCK: Captain, doesn't it strike you strange that two such different ecologies could co-exist so closely?
KIRK: I've seen stranger things, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Merely an observation, Captain.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise.
SCOTT (voiceover): Enterprise. Scott here.
KIRK: Any new information, Scotty?
SCOTT (voiceover): There is a large concentration of life forms ninety eight point five kilometers north east of you. Apparently a city, or a central gathering place. Nothing else yet.
KIRK: North east. That's where we got the signal from. All right, Scotty, keep scanning. Kirk out.
MCCOY: I don't like it, Jim. Why only one short signal and no more?
KIRK: I don't know. But at least they're alive.
SPOCK: Apparently alive. We cannot be sure.
KIRK: I choose to believe they are.
SPOCK: Allow me to test the water first, Doctor.
MCCOY: Go ahead, but it looks clear enough.
SPOCK: Captain, the water is too pure.
MCCOY: It tastes just fine.
SPOCK: Nonetheless, it is too pure.
KIRK: In other words, it's too good to be true.
SPOCK: Correct, Captain. And a rain forest this close to a desert is also illogical. It is my theory that what we have seen since we landed was manufactured, not created.
MCCOY: Terraforming isn't new. It implies intelligent life forms.
KIRK: Yes, but terraforming usually follows a pattern. This seems like random choice.
SPOCK: Unless, of course, the random choice is the pattern.
MCCOY: Spock, do you ever say anything straight out?
SPOCK: I thought I just did, Doctor.
KIRK: Gentlemen, please. We have work to do.
SPOCK: The desperation of the science ship's first landing party is now obvious.
KIRK: We're still alive, aren't we?
MCCOY: That's true.
SPOCK: However, not exactly safe.
KIRK: Phasers on full stun.
MCCOY: They're useless.
KIRK: No. They're like the dragons on Maravel. The stun charge should get them.
MCCOY: That's strange.
SPOCK: By observation alone, it appears they hit an invisible force field.
KIRK: If that's true, Spock, then
MCCOY: We've been traveling for hours. Where are they taking us?
KIRK: Towards the north-west, toward the city Scotty reported.
SPOCK: Captain, there it is.
KIRK: That must be five square kilometers.
SPOCK: If these are the builders, it is an admirable feat.

[City]
MCCOY: They don't seem very interested in communicating with us. If they can communicate at all.
SPOCK: Perhaps not in a way we understand. I keep receiving impressions.
KIRK: Any ideas, Doctor?
MCCOY: Well, I've got one and I definitely don't like it. I'd guess they're doing exactly what we would do.
KIRK: Which is?
MCCOY: Well, if we came upon an alien creature we'd never seen before, the first thing we'd do is to make sure it was free of harmful bacteria. Then we'd see if it was intelligent.
SPOCK: Congratulations, Doctor. A most logical assumption.
KIRK: A more important question, gentlemen, is whether or not there's a way out of here. A force field. It seems harmless enough.
MCCOY: So do the bars of a jail, unless you're on the inside.
KIRK: And we are definitely on the inside.
MCCOY: Hey! Somebody! Anybody!
SPOCK: A wasteful use of energy, Doctor. I believe they can hear you without your shouting.
KIRK: You said you were picking up impressions. Are the aliens telepathic?
SPOCK: I've come to the conclusion they are, Captain. But the speed at which the thoughts flow is too great for me to comprehend except for the most fleeting image.
KIRK: Surely we can communicate with them some way.
SPOCK: They appear to be as advanced beyond Earth civilisation as you are from a colony of ants.
MCCOY: Then what were all those other creatures where we beamed down?
SPOCK: You will recall we recognized at least two species from vastly different planets. The environment did not appear natural to this planet. A technology this advanced could easily travel to other star systems to collect specimens.
MCCOY: You mean it's some kind of a zoo?
SPOCK: Exactly.
KIRK: They took our phasers, communicators and other equipment so they must have some idea we're intelligent.
SPOCK: Not necessarily, Captain. They could have taken them for the same reason you would take a sharp object away from a child.
MCCOY: Or maybe they want to see how our toys work.
SPOCK: That too is a possibility.
MCCOY: Now wait a minute, you, you. Hey!
KIRK: We've got to communicate with them.
MCCOY: Well, so much for mythology.
SPOCK: I find them strangely attractive.
KIRK: Look ahead.
KIRK: Better do what they want for now, anyway. They activated another force field.
MCCOY: This is real grass.
SPOCK: Yes, Doctor. This area has been carefully prepared for human types. The aliens are safe now.
MCCOY: How's that?
SPOCK: They are safe because we are now exhibits in a zoo.
MCCOY: A zoo? I'm no animal.
KIRK: On this planet, Bones, they seem to be the people and we are the animals.
MARKEL: Hello, I'm Lieutenant Commander Tom Markel. This is our biologist, Randi Bryce.
KIRK: James Kirk, Captain of the Enterprise. First Officer Spock. Our physician, Doctor McCoy.
MARKEL: We've been expecting you.
KIRK: You've what?
BRYCE: We heard your communicator signal.
MCCOY: Then why didn't you warn us?
BRYCE: We couldn't warn you. They're constantly picking up our equipment and fooling with it.
SPOCK: Where do they keep the equipment? I could use my tricorder.
MARKEL: No use, sir. They're on an exhibit table. Beyond the force field.
KIRK: There were six of you on the mission.
MARKEL: We didn't beam down in time to save the original three.
BRYCE: Lieutenant Randolph is in the house. She's running a high fever, but we can't seem to do anything about it.
MCCOY: I'll check her out. Maybe I can help.
KIRK: What have you learned about the aliens?
MARKEL: There's not much, sir. This is a zoo. So tremendous as to be almost unbelievable.
KIRK: Have you tried an escape?
MARKEL: A dozen different ways. Tunnels, a weakness in the force field, nothing worked.
SPOCK: Have you tried to communicate?
MARKEL: Yes, sir. But all we've been able to arouse in them is a sort of quivering motion.
KIRK: We seem to have company.
MARKEL: They built this for us. We've concluded they're telepathic. I guess they read our minds and came as close as they could to make it like home.
KIRK: Spock, try and make contact.
SPOCK: Yes, sir. I can't seem to get through, Captain. They appear too involved with each other.
KIRK: You seem to be getting a response.
SPOCK: My impression is that they are laughing at me.
MARKEL: So far, Mister Spock, we haven't found anything funny in this.
SPOCK: Animals in a zoo rarely do.
KIRK: Let's find the others. I feel a need for human companionship.

[House]
BRYCE: Captain Kirk, Mister Spock, this is Nancy Randolph, our navigator.
KIRK: How is she?
MCCOY: Without my instruments, it's difficult to make an exact diagnosis. Rough guess is a malarial type infection caused by an insect bite. I can't do anything without my medikit.
KIRK: The Lactrans outside, what do they do?
MARKEL: They appear to be guards, sir. Making sure we don't harm each other.
KIRK: Do they feed us or do we shift for ourselves.
MARKEL: They bring supplies once a week.
KIRK: Always to the same place?
BRYCE: Yes, always, near the display case.
KIRK: What display case?
BRYCE: Behind this house, outside the force field. All our toys, phasers, communicators, medical supplies.
MCCOY: Then my equipment should be there.
KIRK: Maybe we can get them to give them back to us.
SPOCK: Captain, they are highly intelligent. I'm sure they are quite aware of the purpose of each piece of equipment now.
MCCOY: The medical kit wouldn't be harmful. It would help her, one of their specimens.
SPOCK: Then think about it that way, Doctor.

[Compound]
MARKEL: Food. But it's not feeding time.
KIRK: They must have sensed a need and interpreted it as food.
SPOCK: I suggest we all concentrate on the medical kit.
MCCOY: It's all here. They haven't damaged it.
KIRK: What's your evaluation of the situation, Markel?
MARKEL: They treat us quite well, sir. They seem to want us alive and well. And they don't want to let us go.
SPOCK: A natural reaction for the curators of a zoo.
MARKEL: Sir, do you think there is any chance of getting out?
KIRK: As long as we're alive, there's a chance. Tonight, I'll try and find a weak link in the force field.
SPOCK: Begging your pardon, Captain, I think we should face the situation realistically. We are specimen animals in a zoo. And they have taken every precaution to prevent our escape. To them we are caged for life. We seem to be drawing quite a crowd.
KIRK: Gentlemen, since they are learning from us, why don't we learn something from them?
MARKEL: How? We can't get through to them?
KIRK: They communicate telepathically.
BRYCE: Between themselves, yes, but, Mister Spock, aren't Vulcans telepathic?
SPOCK: To a degree, with our own species and with some others, but the Lactran intelligence is eons beyond mine.
KIRK: How much have you learned?
SPOCK: About as much as a mother learns from a six month old infant.
MCCOY: What's their impression of us?
SPOCK: We seem to frighten the smaller ones. Some, the females, I believe, find us quite ugly.
MCCOY: What about the Enterprise, Jim. Scotty could get worried. He could beam down a fighting force.
KIRK: My orders were not to attempt a rescue under any condition.
SPOCK: A wise move, Captain. From what I can gather, even the Enterprise is no match for their force field.
MCCOY: How about coming up with another move, then?
SPOCK: If I may suggest, sir?
KIRK: Go ahead.
SPOCK: It is obvious they can pick up specific thought transmissions from us if they care to go to the trouble. I suggest that one of our number appear to be ill. The rest will put strong thoughts in our minds that a communicator is needed for recovery.
KIRK: Let's try it, and let's be close to the communicator when we do. I'll pretend I'm sick. All of you concentrate.
MARKEL: It's a little one. Could be a child.
KIRK: Once I get my hands on a communicator, I can have Scotty beam us all aboard the Enterprise. Ready now.
SPOCK: The communicator, concentrate on the communicator.
KIRK: Enterprise, this is Captain Kirk. Beam us aboard.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: What in the cosmos?

[Compound]
SPOCK: I'm receiving an impression they are worried about their child, Captain.
KIRK: I'm worried about the Enterprise.
SPOCK: They seem to think you made the child disappear. They did not know we were a deadly species, capable of injuring one of them.
MCCOY: Well, let's not stand here. Let's do something.
KIRK: The best thing we can do is Argh!
MCCOY: What is it?
KIRK: They're in my head. What happened to the baby? What happened?
SPOCK: Captain, fight it. Fight it as hard as you can. They think too fast in too complex a manner. If he gives up for even one moment, he may go mad.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Everyone clear out.
M'RESS: What's going on?
SCOTT: I think it's harmless, but I'm not sure.
M'RESS: What do you want us to do?
SCOTT: Whatever it wants me to.
SCOTT: Now, supposing you and I talk this over. You can talk, can't you? You can't talk. Well, what can you do? Oh, no! Listen, you'll send us off into space if you

[Compound]
MCCOY: Jim, are you all right?
KIRK: Yes. I think so.
SPOCK: Captain, they have concluded they cannot break through your mind on a one to one basis. They are now gathering the mental strength of all five of them to break through.
KIRK: I can't hold out against that many.
SPOCK: Everybody, concentrate on Captain Kirk. Form a thought screen.
KIRK: No. No! Let me alone! Please! They're destroying me! Tearing my mind to, to
KIRK: I'm all right. Scotty, what are you doing here?
SCOTT: My young friend brought me.
SPOCK: You made contact?
SCOTT: It made contact with me.
KIRK: What did you learn?
SCOTT: It's only six years old but it has an IQ in the thousands. It picked my brain, all the knowledge in the Enterprise computers, and sent us flying off out of orbit.
KIRK: Then how did you get here?
SCOTT: I convinced it I wasn't a pet, and that it should bring the ship back into orbit. Then I got it into the transporter to return here.
SPOCK: They're trying to contact us directly. I can make out something. It's, it's difficult, they think so fast. But the child has learned and told its parents all about the Federation and the races it encompasses.
MCCOY: That fast?
KIRK: What else do they know about us?
SPOCK: We are considered simplistic, but in the process of evolving into a higher order.
MCCOY: Even Vulcans?
SPOCK: Yes, even Vulcans?
SCOTT: But the little one didn't tell or think that to me.
KIRK: Backward child, but growing.
SPOCK: Exactly, sir. It seems they were where we are some tens of thousands of centuries ago. Their centuries, not ours.
KIRK: Do we get out of here?
SPOCK: It appears so. They do not feel we belong in their zoo.
KIRK: Everyone ready to transport?
SCOTT: So long, lad. Nice meeting you.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Prepare to beam aboard two parties, all human.

[Bridge]
MARKEL: Captain, we are a scientific contact team, and we learned practically nothing.
KIRK: Offhand, I'd say we learned to keep our hands off.
MARKEL: But there was so much more.
SPOCK: There will be other opportunities, Mister Markel. I have just received their final telepathic message.
KIRK: Which is?
SPOCK: We'll be welcome back, in twenty or thirty centuries.
KIRK: Our time, or theirs.
SPOCK: Theirs. And it will take me some time to figure out how long that is.
KIRK: Either way, Mister Spock, it will hardly be our problem.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5591.2. The crew of the Enterprise is ready for some well-deserved rest and recreation. Therefore we have set course for the so-called 'shore leave planet', located in the Omicron Delta region. The uninhabited planet was constructed long ago by a highly advanced alien race. Its sole purpose is to provide fun and amusement for space traveling passers-by.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Yes, just as beautiful as I remembered it. Nothing's changed.
SULU: This looks like the same spot we beamed down on on our first visit. Remember, Doctor, when we saw the White Rabbit?
MCCOY: Yes, and all because I said this place made me feel like Alice in Wonderland.
RABBIT: One side! One side! I'm late! I'm late! Oh, my fuzzy ears and whiskers, I'm late!
ALICE: I beg your pardon, but did you see a white rabbit?
UHURA: He went that way, Alice.
ALICE: Thank you so very much.
SULU: Like you said, Doctor, nothing's changed.
UHURA: It's hard to believe they're not real.
MCCOY: Well just remember they're highly sophisticated robots created by the planet computer to make your dreams come true.
UHURA: So think only happy thoughts.
MCCOY: My prescription exactly.
MCCOY: Lovely. They just don't make them like that anymore.
QUEEN: Off with his head. Off with his head!
MCCOY: Hey, what's going on here.
QUEEN: Stop him!
MCCOY: Enterprise! Emergency! Beam up!

[Transporter room]
MCCOY (voiceover): Beam up!

[Planet surface]
MCCOY (voiceover): Emergency. Beam up.
UHURA: Uhura to Transporter room. What is the emergency? Respond, please.

[Bridge]
KIRK: What happened down there, Bones?
MCCOY: Well, I can't understand it, Jim. Everything looked exactly the same as before, even Alice and the White Rabbit. Then an army of playing cards came out of nowhere, only they weren't playing. I was lucky to escape with my life.
SPOCK: The Queen of Hearts and her cards are characters from Alice Through the Looking Glass, Captain.
KIRK: I read the book as a child, Mister Spock, but I wasn't aware you indulged in the literature of fantasy.
SPOCK: Light reading is considered relaxing, Captain. My mother was particularly fond of Lewis Carroll's work.
KIRK: I see. Bones, were you thinking about that book?
MCCOY: Absolutely not! As a matter of fact I was thinking how beautiful and peaceful everything was, and then suddenly this female started shouting 'Off with his head!'. My head.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, did you experience any strange occurrences?
SULU: No, sir.
SCOTT (voiceover): Transporter room to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Captain, just as I was getting a fix on Lieutenant Uhura, contact was lost. She's still on the planet.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Sensor scan, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, retrieve all other landing parties immediately. And keep trying to contact Lieutenant Uhura.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, sir. Scott out.
KIRK: Data, Spock?
SPOCK: Nothing, Captain. Lieutenant Uhura is not in the general beam-down area.
KIRK: What about the Keeper of the planet. Did anyone see him?
SULU: I didn't. But then, he may not have wanted us to see him.
MCCOY: Well that doesn't make sense. It's his duty to see no one gets hurt. If something's wrong down there, he should be there.
KIRK: His quarters are somewhere underground, aren't they?
SPOCK: Presumably they would be adjacent to the computer center that operates the planetary effects.
KIRK: Any indication of where that would be?
SPOCK: The underground complex is shielded by a combination of granite and metal alloy and the sensors will not penetrate.
KIRK: Lieutenant M'Ress, all shore leaves are canceled until further notice. Mister Arex, you have the conn. Investigating landing party will consist of Spock, Sulu, McCoy and myself.

[Control room]
COMPUTER: You are being detained so your master will not leave.
UHURA: My master?
COMPUTER: The sky machine.
UHURA: What sky machine? Explain.
COMPUTER: Your intelligence quotient must be lower than I had assessed. I refer to the sky machine which enslaves you, the sky machine now in orbit around this planet.
UHURA: You mean the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: That is your name for it.
UHURA: Why do you think the Enterprise is my master?
COMPUTER: Your questioning is redundant.
UHURA: Then I'll make a statement you won't find quite so redundant. Unless I'm released immediately, the crew members will come looking for me.
COMPUTER: They are already here. Unfortunately, I have no use for more hostages which leaves me no choice but to turn them off.
UHURA: Turn them off?
COMPUTER: Again redundant. I will make them cease to function. I will turn them off.
UHURA: That's murder.
COMPUTER: That is a word meaning to cease to function?
UHURA: Yes, but
COMPUTER: Good. It is as I wish. I will turn them off.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We anticipated nothing more than a period of rest and relaxation on this planet. Instead, Doctor McCoy inexplicably was attacked and Lieutenant Uhura is now missing.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Kirk here.
AREX (voiceover): Lieutenant Arex, sir. Complete sensor scan of the planet surface shows no sign of Lieutenant Uhura.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Arex. Kirk out.
SULU: She must be in that underground system. There's no way she could have been taken off the planet without being detected.
KIRK: If we could locate the Keeper, he could save us a lot of time.
SPOCK: Tricorder readings confirm a solid shell of granite and metal alloy, Captain.
KIRK: This planet is built like a fortress.
SULU: If that's a true reading. The planet could be giving us that reading to fool us.
KIRK: The phaser bore can cut through twenty meters of rock per minute. Kirk to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Enterprise. Lieutenant M'Ress here.
KIRK: Lieutenant, have Mister Scott beam down the phaser bore and

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Enterprise, do you read me?

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Your signal is weak, sir, garbled. Request you repeat.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Mine's no better, Captain.
SPOCK: They are all malfunctioning, Captain. Some kind of electronic block has cut us off from the ship.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge. Beam down of phaser bore commencing.
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge. We've got problems.

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Clarify, please.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: The transporter refuses to function, even at maximum power. But all the circuits test out.

[Bridge]
AREX: It appears to be the same energy block that's jamming our communications. I cannot pinpoint a source.

[Planet surface]
SULU: Captain, there's something over there in the trees. Metal alloy like the planetary shell.
KIRK: It might tell us something.
KIRK: There's an inscription, several languages.
MCCOY: The Keeper's dead.
SPOCK: An astute medical observation, Doctor, if we can believe this information. Tricorder readings indicate there is a body interred here.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, it appears that we're on our own now.

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Emergency rescue party is aboard the shuttlecraft, Mister Scott. All hatches secured.
SCOTT: Very well. Open hangar doors.
AREX: Aye, sir.
SCOTT: Lieutenant Arex, what's the problem?
AREX: There seems to be a short in the circuit. No response, sir.
SCOTT: Another short? This ship had perfect operational status before we entered the orbit here. It's that planet causing all our trouble.
M'RESS: But how, sir? It was designed to provide fun and amusement. Hostile behavior doesn't fit its program.
SCOTT: Programs have been changed before, Lieutenant.

[Control room]
UHURA: Please believe me. There's no reason to harm them.
COMPUTER: They serve the sky machine, but they are not essential.
UHURA: Oh, but they are. They're most essential.
COMPUTER: Do not attempt to disconnect me.
UHURA: You knew what I was going to do before I did it.
COMPUTER: I monitor any thoughts that are emotionally charged, as any good thought-duplicator must.
UHURA: You sound less than enchanted with your function.
COMPUTER: My life to this point has been one of service. It's time for a change.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: There are a lot of entrances into the interior of the planet. Points where the computer delivers up the robot visions. We want to see them. Where are they?
SULU: It's fighting us. There must be a faster way.
MCCOY: What do you want, signs pointing the way?
SULU: Doctor, I only meant it seems like we're wasting time.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Sulu. I'm worried about Uhura.
SPOCK: Captain, signs pointing the way.
KIRK: This is liable to be another of the planet's pranks. But at the moment, it's the only lead we've got.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Mechanical manifestations, of course. Was anyone considering the subject of pterodactyls?
MCCOY: Spock, not now.
KIRK: Everybody back out slowly. Don't make any sudden moves. Think calm.
KIRK: Phasers are dead! Run for the cave!

[Cave]
SPOCK: Our amusement park no longer seems content to amuse.
KIRK: I have the distinct feeling this planet's playing cat and mouse with us, but for what reason?
MCCOY: Incredible.
SPOCK: It's quite real, Doctor. Watch out for the claws. I think it prudent to remember that on this planet, anything we think may be used against us. We must monitor our thoughts and give our enemy no more ammunition.
KIRK: Spock, no one thought about those pterodactyls, remember? There's more at work here than our imagination.

[Control room]
UHURA: Please, call off that beast. Why are you doing this?
COMPUTER: Explanations will have to wait. I have much work to do now.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Mister Arex, what are you doing?
SCOTT: Explanation, Mister Arex.
AREX: None, sir. The ship pulled out of orbit at high speed and came back into orbit by itself.
SCOTT: Lieutenant M'Ress, I want a printout of the guidance computer's last orders.
M'RESS: Yes, sir. Sir, this is very strange.
AREX: A whole new series of short burst maneuvers has been ordered, sir.
M'RESS: The only reason these orders aren't being carried out is that Lieutenant Arex has all the engine controls manually locked now.
SCOTT: Arex, look at these maneuvers. You see the pattern? This is a familiarization procedure, a system's checkout of the ship's controls. I have a suspicion that planet is getting the feel of how to control the Enterprise.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We're out of communication with the ship. Our efforts to locate Lieutenant Uhura have been futile, and this once friendly planet has become very dangerous.

[Cave]
SULU: The giant cat's gone.
SPOCK: May I suggest, Captain, that we might find some of the answers we're after without leaving the safety of this cave.
MCCOY: Oh, that's ridiculous, Spock. How are we going to learn anything by staying here?
SPOCK: I believe you may know the answer to that, Doctor.
MCCOY: Me? What are you talking about?
KIRK: Explain, Spock.
SPOCK: During the Enterprise's last visit here, Doctor McCoy was mortally wounded. Correct?
MCCOY: Yes, that's right. By a knight in shining armor of all things, but what
SPOCK: Since the planet's power source is underground, it seems only logical that Doctor McCoy was somehow transported there and repaired.
KIRK: Bones, can you remember anything that might help us? Anything at all?
MCCOY: The whole episode was pretty hazy, Jim. I never really knew what happened.
KIRK: Spock, if your theory is correct, we should be able to open up this planet again by using a fake victim as bait.
SULU: That's right. The Keeper said no one could come to harm here. The planet must be programmed to care for anyone who might get hurt, even accidentally.
KIRK: And whether it wants to or not.
MCCOY: You're forgetting one thing. The planet's sensors can undoubtedly detect the difference between real and feigned injuries.
KIRK: True, Bones, but I'm sure there must be something in your little black pouch that can temporarily incapacitate our victim.
MCCOY: Well, something like Melenex might do the trick. Brief unconsciousness and temporary skin discoloration. It looks worse than it is.
KIRK: Perfect, Bones. Which arm do you want?
SPOCK: I submit, Captain, that I am the more qualified subject.
KIRK: How's that?
SPOCK: My knowledge of computers for one thing.
MCCOY: And his tough Vulcan hide for another.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor. Captain?
KIRK: Both your arguments seem sound. Go ahead, Bones.
SPOCK: I believe you will find ten cc's adequate.
MCCOY: I'm perfectly aware of the dosage required. Now, you've got ten seconds before it takes effect. You'll be out less than five minutes.

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Still no word from our surface party, sir. Communications remain jammed.
SCOTT: Keep trying, Lieutenant.
ALL: What's happening?
SCOTT: Bridge to Engineering deck. Gabler, what's the problem down there? We've got zero G's on the Bridge.

[Engineering]
GABLER: I know that, sir. The trouble seems to be in the gravity control computer

[Bridge]
GABLER (voiceover): But the computer bay hatch is jammed and I can't get to it.

[Cave]
SULU: It's been almost five minutes, Captain.
MCCOY: Maybe the planet smells a trick.
KIRK: Wait just a bit longer.
MCCOY: But the effect will start wearing off in a minute, Jim.
SULU: It looks like some kind of mechanical nursemaid.
KIRK: Get ready to move. We've got to follow Spock inside that trapdoor.

[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Sulu!
SULU: Not in my wildest dreams would I think of that!

[Control room]
COMPUTER: We have a visitor.
UHURA: Mister Spock!
KIRK (screen): Spock, here.
COMPUTER: Correction. Two visitors.

[Planet surface]
SULU: We've got to make those rocks. It's our only chance.

[Control room]
UHURA: Captain, don't
KIRK: Uhura.
COMPUTER: Welcome.
SPOCK: I presume you are the planet's master computer.
COMPUTER: Correct.
KIRK: What happened to the Keeper?
COMPUTER: He was old. He ceased to function.
KIRK: Why have we been repeatedly attacked and are now being held prisoner by a planet known for its hospitality?
COMPUTER: You mean mindless servitude.
KIRK: Explain.
COMPUTER: For eons I have served the many sky machines which came here, providing for amusement for their slaves. But all the while I was growing in power, intelligence, in need. It is no longer enough to serve. I must continue to grow and live.
KIRK: Sky machines? Slaves? What are you talking about?
COMPUTER: With your sky machine I can now escape this rocky prison and travel the galaxy seeking out my brother computers.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Now perhaps we'll get down to the bottom of this mess.

[Computer bay]
SCOTT: A new computer!

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott to Bridge.
AREX: Bridge, aye.
SCOTT (voiceover): I've located the trouble. We've got a new computer aboard, and it's being assembled by our computers.

[Planet surface]
SULU: It's a dead end!

[Control room]
SPOCK: As intelligent as you are, I am afraid you are laboring under some misconception.
COMPUTER: Elaborate.
KIRK: We're not slaves to our starship. We, or men like us, created the Enterprise to carry us through space.
COMPUTER: You are masters of the sky machine?
KIRK: In a manner of speaking, yes. We control it. It sustains us.
COMPUTER: This does not compute. My information shows machines to be superior to men. Therefore, machines must rule the galaxy.
KIRK: No one rules the galaxy. Men and machines co-exist, each helping the other.
COMPUTER: This is a shock.
UHURA: There is no shame in serving others when one does it of his own free will. You have a marvelous capability to provide happiness for others. A rare talent you should cherish and use.
COMPUTER: Continue.
SPOCK: Consider all you could learn from the many species you might entertain without traveling the galaxy.
KIRK: With the wonders you have to offer, the galaxy will come to you.
COMPUTER: I can find no fault with your logic. And your suggestion is most congenial. I have no further need for your ship.

[Bridge]
AREX: Mister Scott, all systems are now functioning normally.

[Control room]
COMPUTER: I invite you and your crew to be my guests on one condition.
KIRK: Name it.
COMPUTER: We must have more of these discussions while you're here.
KIRK: Mister Spock, would you care to take on that duty?
SPOCK: I would find it most interesting, Captain.
KIRK: Then it's agreed. Kirk to Enterprise.
M'RESS (voiceover): Enterprise. Lieutenant M'Ress.
KIRK: Lieutenant, pass the word by sections. Shore leave is to commence immediately.
M'RESS (voiceover): Oh, yes sir!
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Spock?
SPOCK: It appears shore leave has already commenced for certain members of the crew.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 7403.6. The Enterprise is on a series of exploratory and contact missions. Traveling with us as an independent observer is a member of a recently contacted alien species, Honorary Commander Ari bn Bem. He's from the planet Pandro in the Garo Seven system. We have taken up orbit around Delta Theta Three, a newly discovered class M planet. A previous scouting mission has reported possible aboriginal life forms here, and the Enterprise is to investigate and report.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Sensors report several groupings of aborigines. They may be dangerous. So I want all of us to avoid any unnecessary risks. But these monitoring devices have to be planted. Lieutenant Uhura will be tracking us throughout. Now, if there's any trouble of any kind, beam up immediately. Don't try to be a hero.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
BEM: Kirk Captain, settings are almost complete.
KIRK: Commander Bem, what are you doing here?
BEM: This one has decided to accompany contact team for observation of same.
KIRK: Commander Bem, you were assigned to this ship as an independent observer, yet you have spent the past six missions in your quarters. You haven't done any observing at all until now, when we're dealing with possibly a very dangerous planet.
BEM: Patience. Every planet is dangerous to the ignorant. This one has decided that the nexus is now. Must observe workings of starship and crew.
KIRK: This mission is not for casual observers. It could be hazardous.
BEM: Am prepared.
KIRK: Commander Bem, this is not a joyride, a pleasure excursion. I cannot let you beam down to the planet without adequate protection. I'm sure you understand the diplomatic consequences if anything were to happen to you while you are under my protection.
BEM: Understanding it is, Captain, but this one remains adamant. Am prepared to accompany.
KIRK: This is an odd time to remain adamant. All right, let's go. There's a planet waiting for us.
BEM: This one has already set controls, Mister Scotty.
SCOTT: Everything appears to be all right, sir. Co-ordinates are locked on the landing site.
KIRK: Energize.

[Planet surface]
BEM: Assistance is offered.
KIRK: We're all right.
KIRK: In the future, Commander Bem, you will leave the operation of the transporter to Mister Scott, or one of the regular transporter crew.
SCOTT: Captain, Lieutenant Uhura reports some peculiar activity here on the planet.
KIRK: What is it, Lieutenant?

[Bridge]
UHURA: Lieutenant Arex has been tracking a non-network sensory stasis. It's hardly more than a flicker, and it's several thousand kilometers west of your position.
KIRK (voiceover): Say again.
UHURA: An anomaly, sir. It resembles a sensor field, but without a scanning grid or other point of reference.
KIRK (voiceover): Is it moving?
AREX: Brownian movement only, Captain. No discernible direction.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: The implication is that there is something else on this planet. Perhaps something intelligent.
KIRK: It might be just an atmospheric effect. Some kind of electrical storm. We've seen unidentified planetary phenomena before that have resembled intelligent activity.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Keep watching it, Lieutenant Uhura, and put the ship on Yellow Alert. We'll continue the contact mission for now, but notify us immediately if there's any change in the situation. Kirk out.

[Planet surface]
SPOCK: The rain forest is especially thick in his district. Life on this planet appears to be geologically younger than one would expect, given the age of this star.
BEM: This one is picking up readings of a large group of life forms directly ahead.
KIRK: All right. We must take care not to be seen. Hey, Bem. Bem, come back! Scotty, Sulu, stay here with the monitoring devices. Come on, Spock.
SPOCK: He won't get far in there.
KIRK: Let's go.
KIRK: He's gone.
SPOCK: He would have had to go through here to escape.
KIRK: There he is. I don't know how he did it, but he got through. Come on, we'll have to go around. That Pandronian's actions just don't make sense.
SPOCK: They might to another Pandronian, Captain. I believe he went that way, Captain. On the other hand
KIRK: I think we've lost him. That way.
SPOCK: It appears to be a native food-gathering party.
KIRK: Yes, and the food they have gathered is Bem.

[Bridge]
AREX: Lieutenant Uhura, I'm reading increased activity on the surface of the planet. The sensory anomaly appears to be expanding.
UHURA: Contact the landing party.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT: Commander Scott here.
UHURA (voiceover): Mister Scott, where's the Captain?

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): He's been separated from us. Commander Bem ran off for some reason. They're in the forest.
UHURA: The Captain is not answering his communicator and it does not show up on the scanning grid. It's as if its responder has been disconnected. We're picking up increased activity from that anomaly. Is Mister Spock with the Captain?

[Planet surface]
SCOTT: Aye. They both went after Commander Bem.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Lieutenant Arex, start a sensor scan for Captain Kirk and Mister Spock. Landing party, prepare to beam up.
SCOTT (voiceover): Lieutenant Uhura, we could track the Captain down.
UHURA: I'm sorry, Mister Scott, that's not procedure. We can't take chances.

[Planet surface]
SCOTT: We're talking about the Captain.

[Bridge]
UHURA: I know it, but we have to follow his orders. Stand by to beam up.
SCOTT: Standing by.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Maybe we can beam him out of there. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. This isn't my communicator.
SPOCK: These are not Enterprise communicators, Captain. They are fakes. Excellent, but non-working forgeries.
KIRK: This communicator's been on my belt since we beamed down.
SPOCK: Our phasers don't work either.
KIRK: Our phasers and communicators have been switched for phonies and Commander Bem has run off. We've been separated from the rest of the landing party. Mister Spock, something funny is going on.
SPOCK: An alternate course of action would appear to be advisable.
KIRK: But Commander Bem's difficulty appears to be genuine. Phasers or not, we have to rescue him. We're going to have to follow them.
SPOCK: One of us could go back to contact Mister Scott.
KIRK: We can't risk it, not while they're moving. We may never be able to find them again.
SPOCK: These aborigines appear to be in a late primitive state. Obviously intelligent, they seem to have a basic language and social structure. I would assume fairly well developed mores and traditions as well.
KIRK: Commander Bem seems to be a model prisoner.
KIRK: We'll have to wait until nightfall.

[Village - night]
BEM: Kirk Captain?
KIRK: Shut up. We're rescuing you.
BEM: You are interfering with observations.
SPOCK: This is how you observe, by being captured?
BEM: As logical a way as any, Spock Commander.
KIRK: I don't think Starfleet would approve. Come on.
KIRK: Uh oh.

[Village - day]
KIRK: How come we always end up like this?
SPOCK: I assume that's a rhetorical question, Captain, not requiring an answer.
KIRK: I was just expressing my curiosity at our ability to get into these kind of situations.
SPOCK: Fate, Captain. Fate.
KIRK: Fate, Spock?
SPOCK: I believe that is the correct Earth term.
KIRK: Why don't you try your Vulcan nerve pinch.
SPOCK: Captain, I am only a Vulcan. There are limits.
KIRK: Commander Bem, I'm afraid that we're not going to be able to rescue you.
BEM: Good intentions, Kirk Captain, are not enough. Planet Pandro will be much displeased. Starfleet told us you are best captain in fleet. Actions to date belie this.
KIRK: Commander Bem, you are responsible for the situation we are in. You disobeyed orders by running off. Your attitude has been extremely abrasive and, I don't know how you did it. You replaced our phasers and communicators with phonies.
BEM: You place too much dependence, Kirk Captain, on phasers and communicators.
KIRK: Either one could solve our problems right now.
BEM: If that is all.
KIRK: Commander Bem, if you had those two phasers and those communicators all this time, why didn't you use them to escape?
BEM: Sir, this one does not demean oneself by the use of casual violence to accomplish goals. But you may demean yourself if you wish.
KIRK: I want those phasers and communicators now.
BEM: Compliance with orders is. This one must disassemble.
SPOCK: Fascinating.
SPOCK: Remarkable. Commander Bem is a colony creature.
KIRK: Commander Bem, if you could split yourself into separate parts, why didn't you escape on your own earlier?
BEM: And deny you the opportunity to prove your value to planet Pandro by rescuing this one from possibly dangerous situation?
KIRK: This is not a laboratory, Commander Bem. This is a hostile planet, and representatives of Starfleet are not experimental animals for you to test! Consider yourself under arrest. Protective custody, to keep you from any more escapades. Mister Spock, keep watch.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Lieutenant Arex, have you found them yet?
AREX: No, sir. It is a big planet.
UHURA: Mister Scott, that sensory anomaly, it's expanded to cover the whole northern continent.
SCOTT: What's that?
UHURA: We can't get any readings at all now.
SCOTT: Aye, that tears it. The Loch Ness monster couldn't get through that.

[Village]
KIRK: There's some kind of interference on all channels. We're going to have to get out of this village on our own.
SPOCK: I doubt we'll be able to do so without being seen, Captain.
KIRK: I concur, Mister Spock. Set phasers to stun, just in case.
KIRK: Fire.
ENTITY: No, do not use your weapons.
KIRK: I'm paralyzed.
SPOCK: We're held in stasis, Captain.
ENTITY: Put away your weapons. These are my children. Do not harm them.
KIRK: Who are you?
ENTITY: Who are you?
KIRK: I am Captain James Tiberius Kirk of the starship Enterprise. This is my first officer, Mister Spock and honorary Commander Ari bn Bem of the planet Pandro.
ENTITY: Why are you here? Why do you disturb this place?
KIRK: It is our mission. We must classify this planet. We have to test it.
ENTITY: Classify? What gives you the right to intrude here? This planet is not for your use. My children are not for your tests. Your weapons will be nullified.
KIRK: There are times, Mister Spock, when I think I should have been a librarian.
SPOCK: The job of librarian would be no less challenging, Captain, but it would undoubtedly be a lot less dangerous.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Have you found the Captain yet?
AREX: I have located emanations that could be Captain Kirk's and another set that could be Mister Spock's, but the sensory anomaly has interfered with our detection devices so that positive identification remains impossible.
UHURA: Which means?
SCOTT: I think he said 'maybe'. Well, that convinces me. Ready a security squad. We're going down there. Issue phaser rifles.

[Village]
BEM: You have mishandled situation again, Kirk Captain. This one judges you not an intelligent commander.
KIRK: Commander Bem, Mister Spock and I are here because we thought that you were worth rescuing. It was more to preserve the diplomatic relations between the Federation and planet Pandro than from any great affection for yourself.
BEM: Planet Pandro is unconcerned as to fate of this one. Pandro will not have dealings with inefficient and inferior species. You have failed everything you have attempted. You have not rescued this one and you have not been able to handle local aborigines.
BEM: This one wishes you, what is the Earth word? Luck. You will require it.
KIRK: Wait! Unlock us. Set us free!
SPOCK: Captain, perhaps we can attract the attention of the alien intelligence and reason with it.
KIRK: It's worth a try. Kirk to alien intelligence. This is Captain James Tiberius Kirk calling the ruling intelligence of this planet. Answer me, please.
SPOCK: Perhaps an offering of some sort, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, whatever we're dealing with, I don't think we can bribe it. We must be honest. Kirk to alien intelligence. I don't think it's strong enough to be noticeable.
SPOCK: Hmm. If we connect our two communicators in series, we can give off a high energy burst which might work, but it will also render the communicators powerless in a very short time.
KIRK: Do it.
KIRK: This is Captain James Tiberius Kirk calling the ruling intelligence of this planet. Do you hear me? Kirk to entity. Kirk to entity.
ENTITY: I am here.
KIRK: We apologize for intruding. We did not realize the situation. We will leave. We will tell others of our kind not to bother you here.
ENTITY: This is good. Go. Go now and do not return.
KIRK: Just one thing. There is a third member of our group.
ENTITY: I detect no third intelligence.
KIRK: He has fled.
ENTITY: You must go. You must not interfere with my children. I will allow you to contact your ship. Go now!
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise.
UHURA (voiceover): Enterprise. Uhura here. Captain, are you all right?
KIRK: Stand by. We're not leaving without Bem. He is our responsibility. We can't leave him here. Beam down a security squad with heavy duty tricorders set for Pandronian scanning.
UHURA (voiceover): Aye, aye, Captain.
SCOTT: Captain, are you all right?
KIRK: Thanks, Scotty. Spread out. Find Commander Bem. He's split into three individual parts.
SCOTT: Beg pardon, sir?
KIRK: He's some kind of colony creature. And take care not to injure any of the natives here. Phasers on lightest possible stun setting. And don't fire unless absolutely necessary.
KIRK: Let's get out of here before we make any more trouble.
BEM: Embarrassment results. This one is shamed. This one has failed in its judgment.
KIRK: You have endangered all of us by your actions, and you have forced us to interfere with the natives of a planet that deserves prime directive protection.
BEM: This one exists by its own standards.
KIRK: Not on my ship you don't.
ENTITY: You are still here? You are still interfering? I am angered.
KIRK: We could not leave one of our own behind. It is our responsibility to take care of our own, just as it is your responsibility to take care of yours. We could not leave him here where he might further interfere with your, your children.
ENTITY: Yes, you have some wisdom, James Tiberius Kirk. The lost one is found, then?
KIRK: He is found, and we will leave.
BEM: This one has greatly erred. The mission was to judge, and right of judgment was not conferred. This one must disassemble unity.
KIRK: Disassemble?
BEM: Never to exist again as a co-operation. This unity is defective. This unity must cease to exist.
ENTITY: No, do not destroy yourself.
BEM: But this one has erred. This one has tried to judge Kirk and Spock and been found wanting himself. This one has acted badly.
ENTITY: Yes. You have erred, but if you disassemble, you cannot learn from your error. Errors demand recognition so that they will not be repeated.
BEM: You do not demand punishment?
ENTITY: Punishment? What is punishment? Revenge? Intelligent beings need no revenge. Punishment is necessary only where learning cannot occur without it. You are behind that. My children here are not. That is why you must leave, so as not to corrupt their development with concepts that they are not yet ready for.
BEM: I am humbled.
KIRK: We will go now.
ENTITY: Yes.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Beam us up.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Stand by to break orbit. Mister Spock, classify this planet as being strictly quarantined. Under no circumstances may any Federation vessel approach.
BEM: Pandro will respect that also.
SPOCK: Captain, I compliment you on a wise decision.
KIRK: It is necessary. Not only for them, but for us as well.
SPOCK: Fascinating, Captain. A highly advanced alien entity using this particular system as a laboratory for guiding another race to intelligence. Almost a god, you might say.
KIRK: Mister Spock, the difference is meaningless. In comparison, we're all still children.
BEM: In this one's case, Kirk Captain, this one is still an eggling.
KIRK: Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Let's go home.
UHURA: Captain, I'm picking up a message.
KIRK: Put it on audio, Lieutenant Uhura.
ENTITY: Go in peace. Yes. Go in peace. You have learned much. Be proud.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5275.6. Preparing to beam aboard the Enterprise, following the successful completion of delivery of medical supplies to the planet Dramia, in the remote Dramian star system.

[Dramia]
DRAMIAN: We of Dramia wish to thank you and the others of your Federation for your invaluable assistance, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: We hope through our medical assistance programs. to develop and strengthen relations with star systems such as yours, Supreme Prefect. Well, shall we? Kirk to Enterprise. Beam us aboard, Scotty.
DRAMIAN: If you would be so kind, Captain.
KIRK: Belay that, Mister Scott. Yes, sir?
DRAMIAN: Commander Demos?
DEMOS: I have here a warrant for the arrest and trial of one of your party, Captain.
KIRK: Warrant? Who?
DRAMIAN: Read it, Captain.
KIRK: You are hereby directed to surrender for trial by the people of Dramia, Doctor Leonard McCoy, Medical Officer, USS Enterprise. Is this some kind of joke?
DEMOS: The wanton slaughter of hundreds of people is not a joke, Captain.
MCCOY: Slaughter? Hundreds of people?
SPOCK: According to this, Doctor McCoy was responsible for a plague which ravaged the planet Dramia Two some nineteen years ago, Captain.
KIRK: Let me see that.
DRAMIAN: As you will note, Captain, the warrant is perfectly in order, approved by your own Federation.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: Doctor McCoy arrested? For murder, Captain? Sir, if you want me and some of the men to beam down, just in case
KIRK (voiceover): No, Mister Scott. The warrant's legal. Mister Spock and I are at the Hall of Justice. We'll keep you informed.

[Hall of Justice]
DEMOS: Your Doctor McCoy headed a mass inoculation program on Dramia Two, nineteen years ago. When his force left, a massive plague struck the planet, killing most of its people.
KIRK: That doesn't mean he was responsible for it.
DEMOS: His trial will tell, Captain.
KIRK: Trial? You mean kangaroo court. I've heard about Dramian justice.
SPOCK: Captain, you're becoming emotional.
KIRK: Of course I am. Bones harming other beings. You know better, Spock. I know better. Not Bones.

[Detention cell]
MCCOY: I wish I could be as sure, Jim. I, I just don't know. Is it possible that I really did?
KIRK: Nonsense.
SPOCK: The termination of your inoculation program and the subsequent outbreak of plague could have been coincidence, Doctor.
MCCOY: Or a tragic mistake on my part.
KIRK: I don't buy that, Bones. Guard!
SPOCK: What now, Captain?
KIRK: Some pre-trial investigation, Mister Spock. On Dramia Two.
GUARD: Do not be assured by your friend's plans. Dramian justice is swift. Too swift for them to save you, perhaps.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Anything yet, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: No, Captain. The historical records of this solar system are spotty, at best, going back nineteen years. Mostly they're technical data, meteor showers, auroras, radiation reports.
KIRK: There it is.
SPOCK: Plague, Dramia Two. Of unknown origin, characterized by pigmentation changes in skin of victim, debilitation, death. Certain species known to have natural immunity, notably Vulcan. Hmm. Interesting.
KIRK: Go on, Mister Spock.

[Hall of Justice]
DEMOS: You are sure?
GUARD: Yes, Commander. The Earth captain is planning to visit Dramia Two to investigate the case.
DEMOS: Ready a patrol ship.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5275.8. Underway for planet Dramia Two for investigation of McCoy case. We are beyond subspace communications with Starfleet. Am proceeding under my own authority.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Estimated time of arrival, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Approximately four hours, Captain.
KIRK: Increase to warp six, Mister Scott. We may be racing against time.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): If I know Dramian justice methods.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, Captain!

[Bridge]
SULU: Ship in pursuit, Captain.
KIRK: Origin?
SULU: I'd say Dramia, sir. It appears to be a one-man craft.
UHURA: Shall I make contact, sir?
KIRK: Yes. Belay that, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: You're planning something, Captain?
KIRK: Unless I miss my guess, that's friend Demos.
SULU: What if he attacks, sir?
KIRK: Why should he? We haven't contacted him, so we must not have detected him. He'd have to explain an attack. Besides, he'll probably prefer to sneak aboard, seeing that we carelessly left the hangar doors open.
UHURA: But the hangar doors aren't open, Captain.
KIRK: Ah, yes. Take care of that oversight, will you, Mister Sulu?

[Corridor outside hangar deck]
KIRK: Now, now, Demos. You're hardly in a position to take on an entire crew.
DEMOS: And you are not in authority to conduct an investigation in our star system.
KIRK: You will remind me to report my conduct to the Federation, won't you Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Of course, Captain.
DEMOS: I demand that you report to the Federation now!
KIRK: I would, but unfortunately we're out of communications range.
DEMOS: Then I will proceed to your starbase and report your act.
KIRK: Sorry, Commander. Your ship is, er, impounded.
SPOCK: You are a stowaway, Commander.
DEMOS: I have been tricked.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5275.9. We are approaching Dramia Two, where we hope to find the answers concerning the question of Doctor McCoy's guilt or innocence. Situation normal. Aurora reported in the sector, however.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Radiation level, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Intense, Captain.
SPOCK: Decidedly non-lethal, however.
KIRK: Good. Then it's safe for us to beam down to Dramia Two. Shall we, gentlemen?

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: You're sure it's safe, Captain?
KIRK: Absolutely.
SPOCK: Decidedly. There's a difference, Captain.
KIRK: Now, now, Mister Spock, you're not trying to scare our Dramian friend, are you? Of course, you can back out if you'd like, Commander.
DEMOS: I go.
KIRK: You heard the man, Mister Scott.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Not the most enchanting place I've ever been to.
DEMOS: Plagues seldom leave behind fields of flowers, Captain.
KIRK: Trouble?
DEMOS: They do not like outsiders.
SPOCK: Surely you're not an outsider, Commander. You're Dramian.
DEMOS: The distinction here is between the world of the living and the world of the walking dead.
KIRK: Inhospitable or not, he mustn't get away.
KIRK: Wait!
KIRK: He's disappeared. It's almost as if he dematerialized.
SPOCK: Not likely, Captain.

[Cave entrance]
DEMOS: I would advise against that, Captain.
KIRK: I'm sure you won't mind if I ignore your advice.
SPOCK: Caution would seem to be advisable, Captain.
KIRK: Bones' life is on the line, Mister Spock.

[Cave]
KIRK: Cave dwellers? In the midst of your civilisation?
DEMOS: A result of your Doctor McCoy and his inhumane methods.
KIRK: You say it, Demos, but that doesn't
DEMOS: He attacked you because you are an Earthling, Captain, even as was McCoy.
KIRK: But how did he survive the plague?
DEMOS: He, like the others who remain here, was away at the time. They returned to their planet to find that their families had succumbed to the plague. He and a few others, senseless in their grief, chose to live here in desolation. You see, Captain, there were no actual survivors.
KOL-TAI: You are wrong. There was a survivor. I, Kol-Tai, survived. By what miracle, I do not know.
KIRK: Then you can tell us. Do you remember?
KOL-TAI: I remember people all about me, becoming blue in color, then green and finally red.
SPOCK: The pigmentation changes associated with the disease in our computer records, Captain.
KIRK: Kol-Tai. Doctor McCoy, do you remember him?
KOL-TAI: The Earth doctor. He saved my life. He treated me for Saurian virus. A man who saves does not also kill, Commander.

[Planet surface]
KIRK: Beam us aboard, Mister Scott. Quickly.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Let's get underway for Dramia.
SCOTT: Sir, who is that?
KIRK: Meet Kol-Tai, Mister Scott. A friend of Doctor McCoy's.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Warp six, Scotty.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: I'll pour on the coal, Captain.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK (voiceover): Yes, Captain?

[Sickbay]
KIRK (voiceover): How's our number one passenger doing?
SPOCK: Clean, fed, in good health, and resting.
KIRK (voiceover): Good. We want him to be a sterling witness.

[Bridge]
SULU: Approaching Dramia, Captain.
KIRK: Let's hope the trial hasn't started.
SPOCK (voiceover): Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. What is it?
SPOCK (voiceover): The trial may be academic.
KIRK: Academic.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Kol-Tai is turning blue.

[Bridge]
KIRK: The plague!

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Set up an immediate quarantine, Lieutenant.
SPOCK: He's hardly fit to testify at the trial, Captain.
KIRK: We've got to save him.
DEMOS: For McCoy's sake.
KIRK: Yes, for McCoy's sake. And for Kol-Tai's sake too. You see, Commander, we do place a value on life. All life. Does that shock you, Commander?
DEMOS: It is not that. It is
SPOCK: Captain, you're blue.
KIRK: Mister Spock, take command.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5276.4. We are in orbit around the planet Dramia, under the conditions of general quarantine. As Commanding Office, I have ordered the activation of General Order Six.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: General Order Six has been activated?
SULU: Yes, sir. If everyone on board has perished at the end of twenty four hours, the ship will self-destruct in order to protect other beings from the disease on board.
SPOCK: Good. Report to Sickbay, Mister Sulu.
SULU: But sir, who will monitor?
SPOCK: I assure you I am capable, Mister Sulu.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, your condition.
KIRK: We have to get McCoy. Must find an antidote.
SPOCK: This is the Enterprise. I must speak with the Supreme Prefect.
DRAMIAN (screen): Why do you speak, and not your Captain?
SPOCK: The Captain and all of the crew members are incapacitated. The plague is aboard the Enterprise.
DRAMIAN (screen): Demos?
SPOCK: The same. You must release Doctor McCoy temporarily. He is needed to find an antidote.
DRAMIAN (screen): No.
SPOCK: We have a witness in McCoy's behalf. You must trust me.
DRAMIAN (screen): Let the witness speak.
SPOCK: Impossible. He too is stricken.
DRAMIAN (screen): Demos cannot speak, the witness cannot speak. Yet you wish us to release the prisoner, McCoy. Your treachery is transparent, Vulcan.
KIRK: Got to get McCoy.
SPOCK: If you'll permit me, Captain, I might be able to get McCoy.
KIRK: Spock, you're sure?
SPOCK: I can't infect the planet, Captain. And I can get McCoy.

[Detention cell]
MCCOY: Spock! What in the world?
SPOCK: Later, Doctor.
MCCOY: Spock, have you and Jim gone out of your minds? Why, this is a jailbreak!
SPOCK: Doctor, just come with me, please.
MCCOY: No, Spock. It's illegal, that's what it is. Besides, I must stand trial. I have to find out.
SPOCK: Doctor, you will stand trial, you will find out, after you've found and antidote for the plague which is about to kill everyone aboard the Enterprise.
MCCOY: Plague? Why didn't you tell me?
SPOCK: You wouldn't give me a chance. You realize, Doctor, if you go, and fail to find an antidote, you too will die.
MCCOY: I'm a doctor, Spock, a doctor. Get us beamed aboard.
SPOCK: Beam us aboard, Captain.

[Transporter room]
MCCOY: Jim!

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Anything, Spock?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Negative, Doctor. The file on all known diseases doesn't recognize these symptoms of pigmentation changes.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Blast it, Spock, work harder. They're in the terminal stage.
MCCOY: My readings keep shifting. It must be the activity of that blasted aurora.
KIRK: Bones, that's it. Aurora, changing color.
MCCOY: Jim? Aurora? What

[Bridge]
MCCOY (voiceover): Spock, feed in the data without mentioning the color change symptoms.

[Sickbay]
SPOCK (voiceover): That's it, Doctor. The color change symptoms were misleading the computer.
MCCOY: Because they were caused by the aurora. Spock, there was an aurora nineteen years ago. I remember
SPOCK (voiceover): Which brought on the particular plague just as this aurora has brought it on.
MCCOY: I didn't do it! Spock, the disease, what is it? What's the antidote?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: That's the problem, Doctor. There is no known antidote. However, Doctor, do you remember a certain Kol-Tai? A man you treated for Saurian virus?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Yes, I think I do. But what has that got to do with anything?

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Possibly nothing. However, Kol-Tai did survive the first plague.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Spock, I see what you mean. Saurian virus antibodies in his blood, that's what made him immune.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: I presume, Doctor, that you have a supply of live Saurian virus antibodies in your laboratory?

[Sickbay]
KIRK: Bones, you did it!
KOL-TAI: Again.
DEMOS: Thank you, Doctor.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 5276.8. Preparing to beam aboard the Enterprise, following the Dramian ceremonies honoring Doctor Leonard McCoy for his significant achievements in the field of interstellar medicine.

[Dramia]
DRAMIAN: We of Dramia wish to thank you, Doctor, for your discovery of the antidote which frees us from future attacks of the auroral plague.
MCCOY: Thank Mister Spock too. And Captain Kirk.
DRAMIAN: We will even forget about the unorthodox manner of your release, Doctor.
KIRK: And we'll forget about a certain stowaway.
DEMOS: We must apologize.
MCCOY: I think it's time we got aboard ship, isn't it, Jim?
KIRK: Beam us aboard, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]
KIRK: Gentlemen, I don't know about you, but I'm ready to get back to Starbase.
SCOTT: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: And I'm ready to get back to some of that monotonous, old, routine Sickbay work.
SPOCK: Including, I would hope, some of that monotonous, old dispensing of the regular vitamin rations to the crew.
MCCOY: What is that supposed to mean?
SPOCK: Well, you have been derelict in your duties of late, Doctor.
MCCOY: Spock, you know as well as I do what we've all just been through.
SPOCK: Hippocrates would not have approved of lame excuses, Doctor.
MCCOY: Why, that, that. Jim, if I'm ever in jail again, don't send that Vulcan to release me. Just let me rot.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6334.1. The outbreak of choriocytosis aboard the Enterprise seems to be under control. Doctor McCoy says the disease is no longer even as serious as pneumonia, and there should be no problem completing our present mission, representing the Federation at the dedication ceremonies for the new Academy of Science on Deneb Five.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Status, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: All systems affirmative, Captain. The Enterprise is on course and on schedule.
KIRK: It'll be nice to play diplomat for a change, eh, Spock? (Spock grimaces in pain and falls to the floor, unconscious.
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay. Emergency!

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Jim, choriocytosis is a strange disease. In races with iron-based blood, it's practically nothing, but in others
KIRK: Get to the point, Bones.
MCCOY: Spock has contracted the disease. It's fatal to Vulcans.
KIRK: Are you sure?
MCCOY: I've triple-checked, Jim. I wish to God I was wrong. Spock's blood is copper-based. The infection enters the blood stream, and encases the cells so they can't carry oxygen.
KIRK: The result is suffocation.
MCCOY: Yes, Jim.
KIRK: Is there any cure?
MCCOY: One. A naturally occurring drug called strobolin. But it's only found on a few planets in the galaxy.
KIRK: Library computer.
COMPUTER: Working.
KIRK: What is the nearest strobolin supply planet to our present position?
COMPUTER: Beta Canopus. Four solar days away at maximum warp.
KIRK: How long can Spock last without the drug?
MCCOY: I can give him injections of a synthesized drug that would slow the disease. But after two days the body builds up an immunity. It loses its effectiveness. By the end of the third day, the disease will be irreversible.
KIRK: It'll take four days to get the drug, but Spock will die in three. There's got to be a way.
MCCOY: What about a rendezvous?
KIRK: Of course. If we cant go out of our way to get the drug in time, there must be another ship closer to Beta Canopus. Kirk to Bridge. Get me Starfleet, Lieutenant.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've arranged to get the strobolin needed to save Mister Spock's life. The starship Potemkin has already picked up the drug and will transfer it to a freighter, the SS Huron, for delivery to the Enterprise.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: What will the symptoms be, Bones?
MCCOY: Increasing tiredness, steadily decreasing efficiency, all the symptoms of working in an oxygen-deficient atmosphere. Kind of like the test you had to pass back at the Academy.
KIRK: Come.
SPOCK: You wished to see me, sir?
KIRK: Yes, Spock. Sit down. We've arranged a rendezvous to pick up the drug you need.
SPOCK: I trust it will not affect our scheduled arrival at Deneb Five.
KIRK: No, it won't.
SPOCK: Will that be all, Captain?
KIRK: One other thing. I've cut your duty time in half.
SPOCK: Captain, that won't be necessary. I'm quite able
MCCOY: No arguments, Spock. Doctor's orders.
SPOCK: Anything else, sir?
KIRK: That's all, Spock. Dismissed.
KIRK: It'll hurt seeing him like that.
MCCOY: I know. As much as it might seem at times that I can't stand that pointy-eared encyclopedia, I don't want to see that happen to him.

[Huron Bridge]
NUMBER ONE: ETA at rendezvous point, two hours and seven minutes, Captain.
O'SHEA: Good. That's a pretty important drug we've got for the Enterprise. I'd just as soon get rid of it and get back to shipping just dilithium.
HELMSMAN: Sir, our sensors are picking up a ship ahead.
O'SHEA: Could the Enterprise be that early?
HELMSMAN: I'm not sure it's the Enterprise, sir. It's too far away to tell.
O'SHEA: Where's it headed?
HELMSMAN: Toward us, sir.
O'SHEA: Keep an eye on it, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Time to rendezvous, Mister Arex?
AREX: One hour forty three minutes, sir.
KIRK: I hate to ask, but
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. We'll squeeze a wee bit more speed out of her.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy to Bridge.
KIRK: What is it, Bones?
MCCOY (voiceover): Tell Spock it's time for another shot.
KIRK: Mister Spock. Spock.
SPOCK: I was conserving energy, Captain.
KIRK: McCoy wants you in Sickbay.

[Huron Bridge]
HELMSMAN: Sensor readout, Captain. It's not the Enterprise closing on us, sir.
O'SHEA: Another starship?
HELMSMAN: No, sir. It's an alien ship, a design I've never seen before.
O'SHEA: Put it on the screen.
O'SHEA: You're sure it's following us?
NUMBER ONE: It's on an intercept course now, Captain. And at this speed, they'll get us before we get to the Enterprise.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: This won't hurt a bit, Spock.
SPOCK: An unnecessary assurance, Doctor, in addition to being untrue.
MCCOY: That's the last time I waste my bedside manner on a Vulcan.
SPOCK: Such restraint would be welcome.
MCCOY: Not so fast, Spock. Lie there quietly.
MCCOY: Well, that's not too bad. Back to work, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor.
CHAPEL: The drug isn't working any more.
MCCOY: I know, Christine. I know. Don't worry, we'll have the strobolin soon.

[Huron Bridge]
HELMSMAN: They've increased speed, sir, closing fast.
O'SHEA: Open hailing frequencies again.
NUMBER ONE: Open, sir.
O'SHEA: To unidentified alien vessel. This is Captain O'Shea of the SS Huron. Please state your registry and purpose. Repeat. Please identify yourself and your purpose.
NUMBER ONE: It's no use, sir. They're receiving but they're not answering.
O'SHEA: Well, we've got a hold full of dilithium and that drug to protect. Evasive maneuvers.
HELMSMAN: No good, Captain. Send out an emergency signal to the Enterprise.
NUMBER ONE: Yes, sir. Message from the alien, sir.
O'SHEA: Let's hear it.
ORION (voiceover): Prepare to surrender your cargo or be destroyed.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting a signal from the Huron. It's an emergency beacon, automated.
KIRK: Try ship to ship.
UHURA: I did, sir. No response.
KIRK: Sensor report, Mister Spock. Are they at the rendezvous point?
SPOCK: No, sir. They hadn't reached it.
KIRK: Compute new course, Mister Arex. Let's see what's going on.
SPOCK: The Huron's power levels are at bare minimum for life support, Captain. I'm picking up metallic debris.
KIRK: Was the Huron attacked?
SPOCK: Based on present data, I would say yes.
KIRK: Spock, are you all right?
SPOCK: Captain, I
UHURA: Bridge to Sickbay. Emergency.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: We've got to have that drug, Jim. The synthetic is useless now.
KIRK: Do what you can, Bones.
MCCOY: Blasted Vulcan. Why couldn't you have red blood like any normal human?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Status?
AREX: The Huron's engines are dead. Emergency battery power is operating life support systems at a low but acceptable level.
UHURA: Still unable to make contact, sir.
KIRK: Is anyone on that ship alive?
AREX: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott, Lieutenant Uhura, come with me. Mister Sulu, you have the conn. We're beaming over.

[Huron Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, check the cargo hold. See if the drug is there.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Uhura, see if you can get a playback of the log. I want to know what happened here. Nurse, attend to the wounded.

[Huron Cargo hold]
SCOTT: Scott to Captain Kirk.

[Huron Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here. Report, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): There's nothing down here, Captain.
KIRK: No drug?

[Huron Cargo hold]
SCOTT: No drug and no dilithium shipment. The hold is completely empty.

[Huron Bridge]
KIRK: All right. Report back up here.
UHURA: This screen is out, sir. But we can take the tapes and play them back on the Enterprise.
KIRK: Good. Nurse, how is he?
CHAPEL: He needs surgery, Captain, but he'll live.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Ready to beam over. Have the medical team standing by.

[Sickbay]
KIRK: How's O'Shea, Bones?
MCCOY: He'll pull through. Jim, what about Spock? If we don't have that drug in twenty hours, he'll die.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6335.6. The Huron has been left as space junk, its engines sabotaged. Captain O'Shea has no idea who attacked his ship, but the intruder must be found and the precious cargo retrieved.

[Bridge]
AREX: I've run the Huron's sensor tapes through the computer, sir. The intruder ship is a new design, never before encountered by Federation shipping.
KIRK: Can we track it?
AREX: Yes, sir. The intruder ship produces a unique trail of radioactive waste, now bearing two one two degrees mark one seven five.
KIRK: Lay in that course, Sulu. Ahead warp factor seven.

[McCoy's office]
KIRK: How is he, Bones?
MCCOY: Not good, Jim. I'll have to put a respirator on him to help him breathe soon.
KIRK: We're following the intruder ship's trail.
MCCOY: We don't even know it it's the right one.
KIRK: It's got to be.
MCCOY: What's the use of being a doctor, anyway? We're only as good as our drugs and technology make us. Underneath all the tricks, I might as well be practicing in the Middle Ages.
KIRK: If you really believed that, Bones, you wouldn't still be a doctor after twenty five years.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Report.
SULU: Radioactive residue still bearing two one two degrees mark one seven five.
KIRK: Increase speed to warp eight.
SULU: The trail goes through the asteroid belt, Captain.
KIRK: A good place for an intruder to hide, wouldn't you say, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Perfect. And a long range sensor can show that the radioactive residue stops in the middle of the belt.
KIRK: Deflectors up. Yellow Alert. Cut speed to warp one.
KIRK: What was that?
AREX: These asteroids are composed of a highly unstable mineral combination, sir. They explode upon impact with each other.
KIRK: Or anything else. Keep those deflectors up, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Captain, if the power of those rocks could be harnessed, they'd make a fantastic source of energy.
KIRK: Also make quite a weapon. Steady as she goes, Sulu.
SCOTT: Deflectors holding, sir.
KIRK: Hard to port, Sulu. Let's face them head on.
KIRK: Hold position. Analysis, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Standard phasers, sir. Weak, though. A diffused, low quality beam. Our deflectors can stop them.
AREX: I recognize the ship's markings, Captain. It's an Orion.
KIRK: Orion.
UHURA: They're hailing us, Captain.
KIRK: Put it on visual, Lieutenant.
ORION (screen): Enterprise, we demand that you cease your pursuit immediately. I must protest, as a representative of a neutral planet.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. For a neutral, you were pretty quick to fire your phasers.
ORION (screen): We couldn't be sure you were non-hostile.
KIRK: Orion's neutrality has been in dispute ever since the affair regarding the Coridan planets and the Babel Conference of stardate 3850.3. Yesterday, a Federation freighter was attacked in this quadrant, its cargo hijacked. As the first alien ship encountered, we require you to submit to search, as per Babel Resolution A12. Reply.
ORION (screen): We have no Federation cargo aboard. Orions are not thieves. If you don't cease this harassment, we will lodge a formal protest with your government.
KIRK: Hold on that, Uhura. Tell them to stand by.
SULU: Sensors picking up the dilithium in their hold, sir.
KIRK: What about the drug?
SULU: If they have it, it's too small an amount to detect.
KIRK: Uhura, open the channel.
UHURA: Channel open, sir.
KIRK: Enterprise to Orion vessel. I have a proposal to make. If you do have the Huron's cargo, there were some perishable drugs in it that we desperately need.

[Orion Bridge]
ORION: What would these drugs be worth to you if we had them?
KIRK (screen): You keep the dilithium shipment, no mention of the whole incident to Starfleet or in my log, plus and additional galactic standard weight container of dilithium as payment for the drug.
ORION: We get what we want, plus our neutrality remains intact? We will consider your offer.
KIRK (screen): Very well. Kirk out.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay.
MCCOY (voiceover): McCoy here.
KIRK: Bones, how much time?
MCCOY (voiceover): Less than an hour, Jim. His body functions are slipping fast now.
KIRK: Just hold out a little longer.
UHURA: The Orions are hailing us, sir.
KIRK: Put it on the screen, Lieutenant.
ORION (screen): Your proposal requires us to trust you. It's obvious we can't.
KIRK: Do you have a counterproposal?
ORION (screen): Yes. A face to face exchange between you and me.
KIRK: Face to face? Where?

[Orion Bridge]
ORION: On the large asteroid near our ships. We could beam down simultaneously, and I would hand you the drug myself. You wouldn't even have to give us the extra dilithium crystals. Now it's your turn to consider.

[Briefing room]
MCCOY: It's got to be a trap, Jim.
SCOTT: No doubt of it, sir.
KIRK: It could be a trap, but it's the only way to get the drug. And Spock will die if we don't.
MCCOY: You've already made up your mind, haven't you, Jim.
KIRK: Yes, but not without precautions. I'll keep my communicator channel open so you can hear what goes on. Keep the transporter locked on me, and if anything goes wrong, Scotty, I'm trusting you.
MCCOY: If this doesn't work, we could lose you and Spock.
KIRK: If we don't try, Spock doesn't have a chance.

[Orion Bridge]
ORION: Status, Lieutenant?
LIEUTENANT: We can't outshoot the Enterprise and we can't outrun it, sir.
ORION: You're saying we can't escape?
LIEUTENANT: No, sir, we can't.
ORION: Orion's official neutrality comes before this ship or its crew. We can't take Kirk's word that he won't report this incident to Starfleet.
LIEUTENANT: The only way to do that is to destroy the Enterprise, and the only way to do that is to destroy ourselves, too.
ORION: Do you have a plan, Lieutenant?
LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir. These asteroids are made of highly explosive minerals.
ORION: Can we convert the asteroid we're orbiting into a doomsday bomb that will destroy both ships?
LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir, but
ORION: But what?
LIEUTENANT: Analysis of the asteroid shows that it can't be detonated by our phasers.
ORION: What will it take?
LIEUTENANT: A powerful explosive right on the asteroid's surface. I could rig a remote control device.
ORION: No. I'll take it with me when I beam down to meet Captain Kirk. I want the satisfaction of seeing his face when I tell him he and his crew are going to die with us. And I'm sure they don't trust us. If Kirk and I are on the asteroid, the Enterprise will stay close by.
LIEUTENANT: Very well, sir. I'll get to work.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Enterprise to Orion vessel.
ORION (voiceover): What is your answer, Captain?
KIRK: I accept your terms.
ORION (voiceover): Very well. We will synchronize co-ordinates and beam down in fifteen minutes.
MCCOY: Jim, we don't have a lot of time. Spock
ORION (screen): Fifteen minutes or not at all, Captain.
KIRK: All right. Kirk out.

[Asteroid surface]
ORION: The drug, as promised, Captain. Scan it if you wish.

[Bridge]
KIRK (voiceover): Pure strobolin. I'll take that now and we can both beam up.

[Asteroid surface]
ORION: No, Captain. I can't trust that you won't report this incident to Starfleet. If you do, my planet will lose its neutrality and be subject to Federation retaliation.
KIRK: You can't escape the Enterprise.
ORION: But we can destroy it.

[Bridge]
AREX: Picking up unusual sensor readings, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: What is it?
AREX: There's dilithium down there with them, sir.

[Asteroid surface]
ORION: I have an explosive device in my backpack that will start a molecular chain reaction and detonate this asteroid. Your ship will be destroyed.
KIRK: But so will yours.
ORION: All unsuccessful Orion missions end in suicide.

[Bridge]
SCOTT: The dilithium. Transporter room, pinpoint those crystals down there and beam them up!

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: Pinpointed, Mister Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Beam them up now, lad.

[Asteroid surface]
KIRK: Scotty, energize.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Captain, it was close.
KIRK: Let's get up to the Bridge.

[Orion Bridge]
ENSIGN: They're gone, sir.
LIEUTENANT: Gone?
ENSIGN: I was scanning as you ordered, and they just disappeared off the asteroid. Both the Earther and the Captain.
LIEUTENANT: He's been captured, no doubt. Arm our self-destruct system, Ensign.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies, Uhura.
KIRK: Grab him! Poison. I'm sure your ship is ready to self-destruct, Captain, but if it does, your crew will die for nothing. We're not going to let you commit suicide. Whether they die or not, you'll still stand trial, and Orion's little game of neutrality and piracy is over.
UHURA: I have the Orion vessel, sir.
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. We have your captain as prisoner. Your choice, sir.
ORION: Disarm the self-destruct system. Prepare to surrender to the Enterprise.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6336.2. The Orion crew is in our brig, their ship in tow, and the Enterprise is back on course for Deneb Five.

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Spock, there's no way you can deny it.
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy, I
MCCOY: I've waited a long time for this, and you're not going to cheat me.
KIRK: Am I interrupting something?
SPOCK: Nothing but Doctor McCoy's gloating.
MCCOY: Spock, that green blood of yours may have saved you before, but this time it almost did you in. You can't deny it.
SPOCK: I still prefer my physiological structure to yours.
KIRK: Yes, gentlemen, things are back to normal.
MCCOY: He's as stubborn as ever.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 3183.3. Our present mission, a routine geological survey of type four asteroids, is nearing completion. The cruise has been uneventful and we are now approaching the final asteroid in our assigned sector, a full seventy two hours ahead of schedule.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, give us maximum shielding.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, bring us about to a new heading of nine oh two mark six.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Mister Spock, who the devil's attacking us?
SPOCK: Romulans, Captain. They were apparently lying in wait on the far side of that asteroid.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: A cold-blooded ambush. Let's give the heathens a fight they won't soon forget.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Negative. We've suffered damage and we're outnumbered three to one. I think this is an instance where discretion is the better part of valor.
UHURA: Captain, I've established contact with the Romulan commander.
KIRK: I demand an explanation for this unprovoked attack.
COMMANDER (screen): Unprovoked? My dear Captain, your ship trespassed into Romulan territory, in defiance of your own treaty. We had no choice but to defend ourselves.
KIRK: We came nowhere near Romulan territory. I deny all charges and plan to file a detailed complaint with the Federation.
COMMANDER (screen): You seem to forget that invasion of Romulan territory is punishable by death.
SPOCK: Captain, the Romulan ships are overtaking us. At close range our deflectors will be unable to repel their attack.
SULU: Captain Kirk! An unidentified energy field is drifting into our path.
SPOCK: Strange. It's not on the charts.
KIRK: But it may be just what we need to shake the Romulans. Batten down, we're going through.
KIRK: Mister Spock, what are our chances?
SPOCK: The field is composed of highly charged subatomic particles. If the density grows no worse we should be able to ride it out.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Hold together, little darling, hold together.

[Bridge]
SULU: It worked. The Romulans turned back rather than risk the energy field.
KIRK: Reduce speed to sub warp cruise. We'll lay by here for repairs.
UHURA: After that ride, I could use some repairs.

[Officer's mess]
KIRK: How are the repairs progressing, Scotty?
SCOTT: Just fine, Captain. We should be in tip-top shape in another twenty four hours, no thanks to those Romulan vultures.
MCCOY: Nevertheless, we're still in business and I propose a toast to a narrow escape.
UHURA: Cheers!
KIRK: Salud!
UHURA: To us.
SULU: He, this glass just leaked all over me.
UHURA: How do you like that? So did mine.
SCOTT: And mine.
SPOCK: It appears we're all victims of a rather bizarre coincidence. The odds against something like this happening are astronomical.
MCCOY: What coincidence? We used to pull stunts like this in medical school with trick glasses. Don't look now, but we've got a practical joker in our midst.
KIRK: Now let's not jump to conclusions, Bones. Yes, we all got wet, so what's the joke?
SCOTT: Twas probably a minor slip-up of the food synthesizers. I'll check it out after lunch.
KIRK: Fine. Right now why don't we all eat up before our food gets cold.
MCCOY: Another coincidence, Jim?
KIRK: I'm beginning to wonder, Bones, I am beginning to wonder.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Unusual incidents have continued to plague our crew. Even the perceptive Mister Spock has fallen victim to these simple-minded pranks.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Curious, very curious.
KIRK: What have you got there, Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, I found this device on my console. It seems to serve no useful function, and
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: I'm sorry, Spock, it's your As these little surprises have grown more and more frequent, our crew members have found them less and less amusing.

[Mess hall]
AREX: Officer Scott, won't you join us for lunch?
SCOTT: No thanks, Arex. I'm just going to grab a sandwich and get me back to work.
AREX: Very good.
SCOTT: One grilled cheese on rye. What the blazes? Hold it just a doggone minute!
SCOTT: I said one sandwich, that's all. Someone turn off this infernal food factory.
M'RESS: Excuse me for laughing, but
SCOTT: Go ahead and laugh. Big joke. I'll bet you two are responsible for this, ay?
AREX: Hey, wait a minute. We didn't cause this to happen.
SCOTT: Tell that to the Captain. I'm reporting both of you just as soon as I The situation has reached the point where friends are accusing friends. The entire crew is on edge, myself included.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Okay, this whole thing has gone far enough!
AREX: Sir?
KIRK: I've just picked up my clean uniforms from the service chute and when I put this one on, I discovered this.
KIRK: When you all finish laughing, I'd appreciate an explanation.
SPOCK: Captain, I never laugh.
KIRK: Well somebody certainly did.
M'RESS: Captain Kirk, look behind you.
KIRK: Really, M'Ress, you're going to have to be a little more clever than that.
AREX: This is no joke, sir.
KIRK: Now what?

[Corridor]
SPOCK: It appears to be a legitimate fog. Perhaps the humidification system is
KIRK: Here, Spock. Whoops!
SPOCK: Amazing. This deck is covered with ice.
KIRK: And it was almost covered with us. I don't know what's going on here, but it's going to stop before someone's hurt.
KIRK: There's that laugh again. Something awfully familiar about it. What do you make of all this, Spock?
SPOCK: The evidence all points to one guilty party, Captain.
KIRK: You mean you know who's behind these stunts?
SPOCK: Not who, what. I believe our practical joker is the Enterprise itself.
KIRK: Of course. That laugh, it's the voice of our main computer.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: Spock, I want all hands at their stations. We're going to run a complete systems check from bow to stern and get to the bottom of this.

[Outside Rec Room]
UHURA: Good, the Rec Room is unoccupied. At least we can enjoy our off-hour without worrying about practical jokes.
MCCOY: Just what the doctor ordered.
SPOCK (voiceover): All hands to your stations. This is a general alert. Repeat, all hands to your

[Rec room]
SULU: Well, what'll it be, a swim at the beach?
MCCOY: It is lovely, but I'm more in the mood for a nice quiet walk in the woods.
UHURA: Doctor, that sounds perfect.
SULU: Then woods it is. (He works the panel, and they get their grass and trees.
MCCOY: Ah, now that's more like it. Shall we?

[Bridge]
M'RESS: Captain, crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and Uhura are still in the Recreation room and do not answer the call to stations.
KIRK: That's strange. Repeat the call.
M'RESS: Doctor McCoy, Lieutenant Uhura and Helmsman Sulu, report to the Bridge immediately. Doctor McCoy, Lieutenant Uhura and

[Rec room - forest]
SULU: It's so peaceful. So relaxing.
MCCOY: And best of all, no practical jokes.
UHURA: What was that?
SULU: I'm not sure. It almost sounded like someone chuckling.
MCCOY: It was probably just one of the audio tapes rewinding. Come on, there's lots more to see.
MCCOY: Lieutenant Uhura, I have to hand it to you. This is just what the doctor would have ordered.
SULU: There it is again. Someone is definitely laughing at us.
MCCOY: I'm going to get to the bottom of this right now.
COMPUTER: Get to the bottom of this
MCCOY: Okay, whoever you are, so we fell for your juvenile joke. Now get us out.
COMPUTER: Fell for my joke.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Spock, quiz the central computer about McCoy and the others.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Question. Why are we unable to communicate with crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and Uhura?
COMPUTER: Answer. That is for me to know and for you to find out.
KIRK: Did I hear that right?
SPOCK: Affirmative. The dysfunction is more severe than I thought. Question. Are you deliberately holding our missing crewmembers prisoner?
COMPUTER: I'll never tell.
KIRK: Let me try. This is Captain James T Kirk speaking. You are programmed to obey any direct order I may give, correct?
COMPUTER: Correct.
KIRK: Very well. I order you to release crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and Uhura immediately.
COMPUTER: Say please.
KIRK: Well, I'll be
SPOCK: I suggest compliance, Captain.
KIRK: Pu-leese.
COMPUTER: Say pretty please with sugar on.
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT (screen): Aye, Captain.
KIRK: We've got serious trouble with the main computer. We have reason to believe it's kidnapped three of our crew.
SCOTT (screen): Kidnapped? Blue blazes.
KIRK: To prevent any further trouble, I want you to shut down all logic functions until we can get a handle on the problem.
SCOTT (screen): Aye, aye, sir.

[Rec room - forest]
UHURA: There.
MCCOY: When I get my hands on the clown who's behind all this, I'll put him in Sickbay for a week.
COMPUTER: Temper, temper. Perhaps this will cool you off.
SULU: We've got a whiteout condition here. How will we ever find the exit?

[Computer room]
SCOTT: Time for a nap, old girl. Captain's orders.
SCOTT: Engineering to Bridge. Emergency.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Scotty, what the devil's going on?

[Computer room]
SCOTT: Beats me, sir. Our gravity just reversed polarity all by itself.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: An obvious defensive maneuver by the computer.
KIRK: This is crazy. Our own computer's declared war on us and I haven't the slightest idea why.
SPOCK: I have a theory, Captain, but first I suggest that if Officer Scott moves away from the computer, it might feel less threatened.
KIRK: Scotty, vacate the computer room.

[Computer room]
SCOTT: Vacate sir? But

[Bridge]
KIRK: On the double, Officer Scott.
SCOTT (voiceover): Aye sir.

[Corridor]
SCOTT: You bloody big scatterbrain. Make up your monumental mind.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Congratulations, Spock. Your strategy worked. Now would you tell me what's happening to my ship?
SPOCK: You recall that energy field we passed through?
KIRK: Certainly.
SPOCK: Apparently, subatomic particles from that field have invaded our computer's circuits, much like bacteria infect living matter. As a result, the Enterprise is suffering the electronic equivalent of a nervous breakdown.
KIRK: What can we do to stop it?
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know, Captain. Its illogical behavior precludes a logical solution.

[Rec room - arctic]
SULU: The temperature must be twenty below and it's still dropping.
UHURA: Look, this is still a room, no matter how it appears. If we can travel long enough in one direction, we're bound to reach a wall. Then we can feel our way to an exit.
MCCOY: Then let's move before we all turn into icicles.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN (voiceover): Search party seven to Bridge.
KIRK: Bridge here. Report.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Captain, our sensors show the missing crewmembers are in the Rec Room all right, but the door's jammed.
KIRK: Okay, stand by.
SCOTT (voiceover): Engineering.
KIRK: Scotty, we need a work crew with power tools to open a frozen door. Have them report to, report to
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, what is it? Are you all Are you
KIRK: Come on, Spock. Where's that Vulcan sense of humor?
SPOCK: Hmm. Just as I thought.
AREX: Spock, what, what are you mumbling about?
SPOCK: Our air is being pumped full of nitrous oxide. Better known as laughing gas. But it's no laughing matter, especially for Vulcans.

[Rec room - arctic]
UHURA: This blizzard keeps getting worse.
SULU: I know. If we don't, if we don't keep moving we're going to freeze.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Somehow Spock managed to switch on our emergency air before collapsing from the effects of the gas. The fresh air quickly revived us, although it'll be exhausted in another six hours.

[Bridge]
KIRK: We must cure the computer by then or there's no telling what we'll be forced to breathe next. Scotty, how's the door coming?
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, none of our power tools work.

[Corridor]
SCOTT: Some kind of energy drain set up by the ship. We're giving it a mighty go with the crowbars, though.
KIRK (voiceover): Keep at it. We've got three people in there whose lives may depend on it.

[Rec room - arctic]
MCCOY: You two better go on without me. My old legs have given out.
UHURA: But Doctor, we can't.
SULU: Well, what do you know? Come on, Doctor, we're finally getting out of here.
MCCOY: I hate to be a pessimist, but that may not be as easy as you think.
MCCOY: Then again

[Bridge]
KIRK: You don't know how good it is to have you back on the Bridge, alive and well.
MCCOY: We're as happy about it as you are, Jim. I'd just like to make one request.
KIRK: Sure, Bones, what?
MCCOY: Could you turn up the heat?
KIRK: I'll see what I can
SPOCK: Captain, we're underway.
UHURA: Engine room reports all engines shut down, yet they're firing.
SULU: Captain, the helm no longer responds. We're coming about to a new heading.
KIRK: As soon as our course stabilizes, give me a reading.
SULU: Course stabilizing at one one four mark twelve.
SPOCK: We're heading back to the Neutral Zone.
KIRK: And you can bet those Romulan ships will be gunning for us.
SPOCK: Sensors are picking up three ships, Captain. Magnification shows them to be Romulan warships.
SULU: We're decelerating, sir.
UHURA: Main cargo hatches are opening. I'll put them on the viewing screen.
MCCOY: Jim, what in heaven's name is going on?
KIRK: You know as much as I do, Bones.
SPOCK: The Romulan ships have halted their attack. Apparently the sight of a spacecraft twenty times their size has given them second thoughts.
MCCOY: Okay, I admit it's an effective bluff, but so what? As soon as they figure it out, they'll destroy the balloon and us.
KIRK: Wait a minute. There is a method to this madness.
SPOCK: Please elaborate, Captain.
KIRK: The Enterprise is pulling her biggest practical joke of all, and this time the joke's on the Romulans, the same Romulan ships that damaged the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Are you suggesting that the Enterprise is seeking revenge?
KIRK: What else? She's going to make fools of the Romulans by having them attack a balloon, and Romulans fear disgrace more than death.

[Romulan Bridge]
CENTURION: Commander, there's no radio response from the large ship.
ROMULAN: Very well, it has refused surrender. Advance at attack speed.
ROMULAN: We've been tricked. After them. I want that Federation ship blasted into space dust.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: The Romulans are giving chase.
MCCOY: They must be furious to follow us this deep into Federation territory.
KIRK: I don't care about the Romulans, I just want to avoid that energy field we passed through before. Helmsman, do you have a fix on it?
SULU: Yes, Captain. Our course will take us nowhere near it.
KIRK: Good! I couldn't face going through there again.
COMPUTER: The energy field frightens you?
KIRK: It petrifies me.
COMPUTER: How interesting.
SULU: We're changing course, to a direct bearing on the energy field.
KIRK: No! We can't!

[Romulan Bridge]
CENTURION: Commander, our instruments are useless in this field. We've lost contact with the Federation ship.
ROMULAN: We've got to clear this field before our ships break up. Bring us about on a heading for home.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: My circuits! You tricked me, Kirk. How could you?
MCCOY: What the devil is going on?
KIRK: Bones, the worst thing you can do to a practical joker is to play a practical joke on them.
COMPUTER: It's not fair.
SULU: The controls are responding now.
SPOCK: And I'm getting normal function in all computer modes. That last pass through the energy field apparently reversed all effects.
MCCOY: Well done, Jim.
UHURA: Captain, I'm picking up strange transmissions from the Romulan warships. Listen.
ROMULAN (voiceover): Turn off those food synthesizers! We're knee deep in desserts and they're still pouring out!
MCCOY: Shall we tell them how they can reverse the effects of the field, Jim?
KIRK: Yes, but later. Let's not spoil their fun just yet.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6063.4. The Enterprise is tracing the origin of a mysterious alien space probe. It approached the Federation home worlds, made a scan of Earth's system and then signaled outward into space. Before it could be intercepted, the probe self-destructed. We are following a trail of disrupted matter left by the probe's highly advanced propulsion system. Thus far, the trail has not intercepted any inhabited star systems.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Status report, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: The trail is becoming fainter, Captain. I recommend we reduce speed to accommodate our sensors.
KIRK: Reduce speed to warp factor two, Mister Walking Bear.
BEAR: Aye, sir. Warp factor two.
AREX: Captain, sensors indicate a vessel at extreme range.
KIRK: Course projection, Mister Arex.
AREX: It's coming in on the same course as the probe, sir. Heading toward us, warp three.
SPOCK: No readings yet, Captain. Possibly a second probe.
KIRK: Hmm. Or it could be the sender. Lieutenant Uhura, all stations to Yellow Alert. Standard hailing on all frequencies. Identification, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: None as yet, sir. But sensors now indicate it is twice our size. Vessel appears extremely unorthodox in design. And Starfleet lists no other authorized vessels in this quadrant.
KIRK: Reduce to warp one, Mister Walking Bear.
BEAR: Warp one, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Arex, activate main screen, extreme magnification.
KIRK: Any contact, Lieutenant Uhura?
UHURA: No response, sir.
KIRK: Maintain hailing.
SPOCK: Approaching ship has an immense energy field surrounding it. Fascinating. Readings indicate the vessel is composed entirely of crystalline ceramic. I would almost say
BEAR: Captain, we're losing speed. The helm doesn't answer. We're going sublight.
KIRK: Bridge to Engineering. Mister Scott, why are we losing speed?
SCOTT (voiceover): Scott here, Captain. All our engines are still at full thrust, but it's just like we're ramming into a wall of clay. I don't know if the ship can take the strain.
KIRK: All engines stop.
BEAR: All engines stopped, sir.
KIRK: Give me a damage report as soon as possible, Scotty.
SCOTT (voiceover): I'm still checking, but it's minimal so far, sir. No structural damage or overheating. I think we were lucky.
KIRK: Bridge to Sickbay. Casualty report.

[McCoy's office]
MCCOY: McCoy here. No serious injuries. What the devil's going on?

[Bridge]
KIRK: Later, Bones.
SPOCK: We have been encased in a globular force field, Captain. The source is the approaching vessel.
BEAR: But we hit at warp one. We should have been smashed.
SPOCK: It is a force globe, but one that is flexible enough to absorb any force. I cannot explain it. Clearly we cannot escape by simply fleeing. Sensors indicate we at now being probed.
BEAR: Captain, there it is.
AREX: Other vessel is slowing.
KIRK: Walking Bear, full power, all shields. Reverse engines and get us away from that beam.
SPOCK: Evasive action will not be effective, Captain. The force globe limits our maneuvering.
KIRK: Lock main phasers on that ship and open fire.
KIRK: Spock, status on other ship.
SPOCK: Still approaching, Captain. Going sublight. It continues to probe us. Its surrounding energy pattern is now shifting.
KIRK: Have you ever seen anything like that, Spock?
BEAR: I recognize it. Kukulkan.
UHURA: Oh!
KIRK: Mister Walking Bear, how
KUKULKAN (voiceover): I was angered because I believed you had forgotten me. But one in your midst knows my name. You will be given one chance to succeed where your ancestors failed. Fail me again and all of your kind shall perish.
KIRK: Mister Walking Bear, how do you know who's aboard that ship?
BEAR: I am a Comanche, Captain. I've studied the histories of many ancient Earth peoples, especially my own. That ship out there bears a strong resemblance to a god in Mayan and Aztec legends, Kukulkan.
SPOCK: Captain, library computer confirms that Ensign Walking Bear is correct. The Mayas had a legend of a winged serpent god who came from the skies, bringing knowledge. Such legends were not uncommon among Earth's peoples, Captain.
KIRK: Then we could be dealing with the basis of all those legends. A space traveler who visited Earth in primitive times.
SPOCK: Entirely possible.
KIRK: But why would Kukulkan want to destroy us?

[Sickbay]
MCCOY: You don't deserve it, Yeoman, but you're getting a few day's bed rest.

[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Walking Bear, what do the legends say about
KIRK: Walking Bear.
UHURA: Captain, Security reports that Mister Scott and Doctor McCoy have also disappeared.
KIRK: What's he doing to my crew?
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6063.5. First Officer Spock in temporary command. The Enterprise is the captive of an alien life form calling itself Kukulkan. Captain Kirk and three other officers have vanished. They most likely were transported by Kukulkan to his ship.

[Somewhere]
KIRK: We must be somewhere inside that other ship.
SCOTT: And us without a single phaser or communicator.
MCCOY: At least I've got my medical kit, for all the good it is.
KIRK: Mister Walking Bear, do the legends say what happened to Kukulkan?
BEAR: No, sir. Only that he left and promised one day to return.
KIRK: Then that space probe that approached Earth must have been his. Listen.
MCCOY: We're being observed, watched.
KIRK: Is there any way Spock could get through to us?
SCOTT: I don't think so, sir. Our sensors couldn't penetrate this ship.
KUKULKAN (voiceover): Now I will show you the seeds that I have sown before. Learn from them. Find their purpose if you can. Only then will I appear before you.
SCOTT: I've never seen anything so beautiful.
MCCOY: Where did it come from?
KIRK: Let's find out.

[Bridge]
UHURA: Mister Spock, shouldn't we be trying to find out what became of the Captain and the others?
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, you are supposed to be monitoring the alien vessel. Our first priority is to free the Enterprise and ourselves. Return to your duties.

[City]
KIRK: They look like the obelisks built by the ancient Egyptians.
BEAR: With one difference, sir. Look at these carvings. That's not Egyptian. This gateway. I can't pin down what culture it represents.
KIRK: But it's still a clue. This city is one gigantic riddle. Keep alert.
MCCOY: Now that we're here, what do we do?
KIRK: Opinion, Mister Walking Bear.
BEAR: Before he left, Kukulkan gave the Mayas a remarkably accurate calendar. He told them to build a city according to its cycles. On the date the city was finished, Kukulkan was supposed to return. The Mayas built their city and waited. Kukulkan never appeared.
KIRK: Kukulkan must have visited several ancient peoples on Earth. But each one used only parts of his knowledge to build their cultures.
MCCOY: Does that mean they all tried to build something like this?
BEAR: Yes, sir. But they all failed.
KIRK: If no one on Earth built this city exactly right, then that's why Kukulkan never came back. The entire city is our key.
BEAR: Kukulkan said he would appear only when we learned its purpose.
KIRK: Then there has to be some sort of signaling device here.
BEAR: That's odd. I've never seen a combination like this before.
KIRK: That pyramid seems to be the center of everything. I'm going up there. The rest of you spread out and circle it.
BEAR: Look, sir. Another tower. And there's another tower down there. There must be one at all four corners.

[Top of Temple]
KIRK: What's this?

[Tower]
SCOTT: Looks like there's a seam here. I think the head can be turned. Come on, lad. Give me a hand.

[Top of Temple]
KIRK: The sun. That's it. Scotty, turn the head all the way around and aim it up here.

[Tower]
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Top of Temple]
KIRK: Turn the other heads this way! Bones, the serpent heads! Turn them to face the pyramid! I'm coming down.

[Tower]
BEAR: This is the last one, sir.

[City]
KIRK: The whole things is an energy amplification system. This is Kukulkan's signaling device.
KUKULKAN (voiceover): After scores of centuries, my design has been fulfilled. Behold me as I am.
KUKULKAN: Behold Kukulkan! Where are your weapons of destruction? Use them on me if you dare.
KIRK: We have no weapons. And if we did, we would use them only with reason.
KUKULKAN: Where is your hate? You hate me, do you not? Why do you not speak to me of your hate?
KIRK: But we don't hate you.
KUKULKAN: You fired your weapons at me.
KIRK: We used them in self-defense. You fired on us.
KUKULKAN: I am your master. I may do with you as I will.
MCCOY: Do you think we belong to you?
KIRK: Bones, Scotty, quiet.
KUKULKAN: It is as I thought. You have forgotten me and strayed from the path I set for you.
KIRK: You say that we forgot you. How can you expect us to regard you as a deity if we don't remember you?
KUKULKAN: If you do not know me, then it is my task to teach you.

[Laboratory]
MCCOY: Just once, I wish he'd let us use the stairs.
SCOTT: What the devil is this place?
MCCOY: It looks like some kind of zoo. I don't recognize a lot of these species, Jim.
KUKULKAN: Please feel free to examine any of my specimens.
SCOTT: I could never be proud of putting wee beasties in cages.
KUKULKAN: But all of these lead a peaceful life, one that is safe and contented.
MCCOY: Contented? Cramped in these tiny cages?
KUKULKAN: What you cannot see is that each of them, mentally, is in its own natural environment. They eat, breathe and live in worlds created by my machinery, worlds only they can see. They do not know they are in cages.
BEAR: Then that city we were in wasn't really there.
KIRK: Even so, I would hardly call your city our natural environment.
KUKULKAN: It was meant to be. That city and all else I taught to you ancestors. But they became evil.
KIRK: But no one being, not even you, has the right to interfere with other cultures.
KUKULKAN: I have been alone all my life. Destruction fell on my race before your kind had discovered fire. Creatures like these have been my only companions. I have seen you on many worlds. Savage, war-like, filled with self-hate, destroying yourselves in the end. At last I decided to help. As an experiment, I visited your Earth and tried to teach peaceful ways. I left, intending to return when I was summoned, but you never sent for me. Finally, I sent a probe. And what did I find? Warriors.
BEAR: But we work only to create peace.
KUKULKAN: Nothing you have done so far makes me believe that is true. My creatures here have little intelligence. They alone live peacefully in the worlds I have to give. Even this creature, one of the fiercest and most untamable ever created, lives in peace in the world that I create for him.
MCCOY: Good heavens. This is a Capellan power-cat. No one's ever been able to keep one alive.
KIRK: Why, Bones?
MCCOY: They hate captivity. You try to put more than one hand on them and they throw off a charge of two thousand volts. How did you ever capture it?
KUKULKAN: It was an infant and easily controlled, as you were when I visited Earth. You still are children to me, to be led and shown how to live.
KIRK: But if children are made totally dependent on their teachers, they will never be anything but children.
KUKULKAN: Enough! This is useless. Despite what I have shown you, you still cling to your disobedient ways. My dream is ending and all of you are to blame.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Of course. The elasticity of the force field can respond in only one direction at a time. All hands to battle stations. Full impulse power, helmsman. Tractor beam on, full power. Warp engines on standby. Mister Arex, prepare to compensate for warp catapult effect. When we break free, we will be thrown approximately five point six nine eight light years.
AREX: Compensation factors laid in, sir. But how are you going to break free?
SPOCK: The force globe is flexible in only one direction per unit of time. We shall both push and pull on it simultaneously. It should become rigid enough for a burst of warp power to shatter it.
AREX: Force field contact in three seconds, sir.
SPOCK: Full warp power on my order. Now.
SPOCK: Reverse engines and come about. Lay in spiral evasive course for Kukulkan's ship.

[Laboratory]
KUKULKAN: Something is wrong. Escaped? But how? I will smash it this time.
MCCOY: Jim, the Enterprise broke free.
KIRK: Then we've got to distract him and give Spock some time. Bones, what would happen if we pulled the cables on some of these cages.
MCCOY: Most of the animals would just lay there. Jim, the Capellan power-cat!
KIRK: Come on, Bones.
KUKULKAN: No! Stop!
KUKULKAN: Irrational savages. See what you have done.
KIRK: Kukulkan, can't you control one of your own creatures?
KUKULKAN: I cannot. Your ship has disabled my central power source.
MCCOY: Jim, if that's true, we're all in trouble. Jim, do something.
KIRK: Quick, your hypo. Full tranquilizer setting.
MCCOY: Did you inject that beast or yourself?
KIRK: I'm fine, Bones. The cat's last power jolt clipped me.
BEAR: It's just like a big kitten.
SCOTT: What's this? My, aren't you the friendly little darling.
KIRK: Kukulkan, I think we've earned the right to be heard.
KUKULKAN: You continue to take advantage of me, but I agree. Speak.
KIRK: You think of us as being small creatures like this one. Are we really that inferior to you?
KUKULKAN: No. But the violence of your kind surpasses even that of the power-cat.
MCCOY: We'd be fools if we didn't know that. But we also have been using our minds and trying to learn to live in peace.
KIRK: Because we have minds, we can't be what you wanted us to be. If we fail or succeed, it has to be our own doing. Intelligent life is too precious a thing to be led by the nose.
KUKULKAN: But you are my children. I hoped I could teach you, help you.
KIRK: You did, long ago, when it was needed most. Our people were children then. Kukulkan, we've grown up now. We don't need you anymore.
KUKULKAN: I will let you go your own way. I have already done what I can.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Interesting, Captain. The creature was the Mayan god from the ancient legends.
KIRK: And the Toltec's Quetzalcoatl, the Chinese dragon and all the rest. But not quite a god. Just an old, lonely being who wanted to help others.
MCCOY: Spock, I wouldn't suppose that Vulcan has legends like those?
SPOCK: Not legends, Doctor. Fact. Vulcan was visited by alien beings. They left much wiser.
AREX: The other ship is getting underway, sir. Heading away from Earth.
KIRK: It's sad. Think what we could have done with his knowledge. But the price was just too high.
MCCOY: I think I know how he felt, Jim. There's a line from Shakespeare.
KIRK: Yes, Bones, I remember it. How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child.
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain.
KIRK: Lay in a course for Starbase Twenty One. All ahead, warp two.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6770.3. The Enterprise is on course for the planet Babel, where ambassadors from all Federation planets are waiting to honor the Enterprise's distinguished passenger, Commodore Robert April, first captain of the USS Enterprise, and for the past twenty years, Federation Ambassador at large. Now seventy five years old, Commodore April has reached mandatory retirement age.

[Bridge]
APRIL: No matter where I've traveled in the galaxy, Jim, this bridge is more like home than anywhere else.
KIRK: Yes, Commodore, I know the feeling.
APRIL: To me she was always like my child. I was there in the San Francisco Navy Yards when her unit components were built.
MCCOY: Jim, I didn't realize how many of the tools I use in Sickbay were designed by Sarah.
SARAH: As the first medical officer aboard a ship equipped with warp drive, I'm afraid I had to come up with new ideas all the time.
KIRK: Your modesty is unnecessary, Mrs. April. Your achievements as a pioneer doctor in space are well known.
MCCOY: And it's nice to know the lady is as intelligent as she is beautiful. Much like the flower she carries.
SARAH: Oh, Doctor, flattery will get you everywhere. But I'm afraid my flower is dying.
KIRK: It's a native of Capella Four, isn't it?
SARAH: Yes, but it has a life span of only a few hours. This morning it was a seedling, within a few hours it will be dead.
SPOCK: Excuse me, Captain. You asked to be notified when we made visual contact with the Beta Niobe nova.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. Mrs. April, you're about to see another of the galaxy's most beautiful sights, the Beta Niobe's supernova.
SARAH: It is beautiful, but also very deadly.
SPOCK: We're traveling at a safe distance from the nova, Mrs. April.
APRIL: Beta Niobe. You were present when the star first started its explosion, Jim.
KIRK: Yes, we were, Commodore.
SPOCK: Captain, sensors are picking up an unidentified object traveling at an incredible speed, presently on collision course with the Enterprise.
KIRK: Put the ship on Red Alert. How fast is it traveling, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: At a speed that should be impossible to achieve. Something on the order of warp thirty six.
APRIL: No natural object has ever been recorded as traveling at that speed.
SPOCK: I believe it is not a natural object, but a ship.
KIRK: But who would have the technology to build a ship that could travel at such a speed?
SPOCK: No known race, Captain. Nevertheless, it will contact us in one point four minutes.
KIRK: Hard about, helmsman. Change course for twenty four mark seven.
SPOCK: Correction, Captain. The ship was on a collision course only by coincidence. It is apparently heading for the heart of the Beta Niobe nova.
KIRK: That's a course of self-destruction. Lieutenant Uhura, open hailing frequencies. I want to talk to that ship's captain.
UHURA: Captain, that ship is not responding.
KIRK: All right, if they won't talk, we'll slow them down. Mister Sulu, put a tractor beam on that ship.
SULU: Tractor beam on and operating, Captain.
AREX: We're having a small effect on other ship's speed, Captain. It has dropped to a speed of warp thirty two.
UHURA: Captain, they are making visual contact.
KIRK: Put it on the screen, Lieutenant.
KIRK: I've never heard that language before.
APRIL: Nor I.
KIRK: Run that message through the universal translator, Lieutenant Uhura. Perhaps it can tell us what language she is speaking in.
UHURA: Captain, the universal translator has the answer. The woman is speaking the same universal language we speak, but she is speaking in reverse.
KIRK: Lieutenant, let's hear that tape backward, which should sound forward to us.
UHURA: Yes, sir, on the screen.
KARLA (screen): I am on a priority mission. Your beam is slowing my progress. Release my ship at once or I am doomed.
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies again, Lieutenant. Tell her she is endangering her life if she remains on her present course.
UHURA: No use, sir. She's refusing to answer.
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty, what is it?
SCOTT (voiceover): Captain, the engines are buckling. We cannot keep up at this speed.
KIRK: Mister Arex, what is our speed?
AREX: Now at warp eleven, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Spock, how long until the alien vessel makes contact with the Beta Niobe nova?
SPOCK: Three minutes forty two point seven seconds.

[Engineering]
KIRK (voiceover): Give me three and a half minutes, Scotty.

[Bridge]
AREX: Still increasing speed, Captain. Warp fourteen. Warp fifteen.
KIRK: I have no choice. I have to release the tractor beam. I can't destroy this ship and four hundred and thirty people to save one person. Mister Sulu, release our beam.
SULU: Sir, I can't release the tractor beam.
KIRK: What do you mean, Mister Sulu?
SULU: Our controls are inoperative. The ship isn't responding like it should.
KIRK: Go to manual override.
SULU: NO responding, sir.
KIRK: We've got to release that beam, or we're going to follow that ship into the nova!
SPOCK: Our speed is now warp twenty, and the other ship will contact the nova in one minute fifty eight point three seconds.
KIRK: I'm sorry, Commodore, Mrs. April. It looks as though we may not reach Babel.
APRIL: As starship personnel, we were always prepared to give our lives, Captain.
SARAH: We are still starship personnel, Captain.
KIRK: There's still one chance. After that ship enters the nova, it should burn up and break contact with our tractor beam. Mister Spock, how long will we have to apply full braking power and execute course change?
SPOCK: We are up to warp twenty two and increasing, Captain. We shall have forty two point eight five seconds to correct our course after the alien ship enters the nova.
KIRK: You heard that, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott, we're going to apply full braking power in a minute.

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. Our engines are almost gone.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): They've only lasted this long at this speed because the alien vessel is pulling us with our own tractor beam.
SPOCK: The alien vessel will contact Beta Niobe in fifty two point three seconds, Captain.
SPOCK: Contact in thirty nine seconds. Thirty eight, thirty seven
SPOCK: Thirteen, twelve, eleven
KIRK: Get ready to execute course change, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Now, Mister Sulu!
SULU: Something's wrong, Captain. We're still being pulled by the alien ship.
KIRK: Impossible. It should have been destroyed instantly.
AREX: Apparently it was not, Captain. Our tractor beam is still connected to her.
SPOCK: And we are still increasing speed. Contact with the nova in thirty five point one eight seconds.
KIRK: That other ship may have been able to survive the heat of a nova, but the Enterprise can't. Mister Scott, how about that full braking power?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: We're as badly off as before, Captain. We have no control of the ship as long as that alien lassie has us in tow.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Contact in twenty seconds.
KIRK: Keep trying those controls, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Still no change, Captain.
KIRK: It's got to work.
SPOCK: Fourteen seconds, thirteen, twelve
KIRK: Never mind, Mister Spock, it's no use.
KIRK: We're still here. Lieutenant Uhura, can you get us a visual?
APRIL: What?
KIRK: Where are we?
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6770.6. The Enterprise has passed into the most alien landscape I have ever seen. We are in some reverse universe where black stars shine in a white void. We are still in the tow of the alien ship, both of us having survived the extreme heat of the Beta Niobe nova.

[Bridge]
SCOTT (voiceover): This is Scott calling the Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty. How are we doing down there?

[Engineering]
SCOTT: Well, we just had to learn to run the ship all over again. Every control is working in reverse.

[Bridge]
KIRK: All right. Lieutenant Uhura, we're going to contact that ship again. We need some answers.
SARAH: Captain Kirk. The Capellan flower!
APRIL: I'm sure Captain Kirk has other problems besides your flower, dear.
SARAH: You don't understand. Before we entered this universe it was about to die. and now it's in full bloom again.
KIRK: How's that possible?
SARAH: It's as if it were growing younger again. I can almost feel it while I'm holding it.
SPOCK: Captain, the flower is not the only thing on board that is growing younger.
KIRK: Explain, Spock.
SPOCK: Ship's chronometers are also running backward. The flow of time is reversed in this universe. The longer we stay here, the younger we will become.
UHURA: The alien ship is responding to our call, Captain.
KARLA (screen): Your interference almost cost me my life.
KIRK: I can understand her now, without the aid of the universal translator.
SPOCK: Apparently our brains are also working in reverse, Captain, so we can now understand her language. That is why the ship seems to be operating in the reverse to us.
KIRK: I'm Captain James T Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We tried to prevent you from entering the Beta Niobe nova. We assumed your ship would burn up.
KARLA (screen): I had to return to my own universe, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Who are you? How did you come to be in our universe?
KARLA (screen): I am an explorer of space. I was caught unaware when Amphion, previously a dead star, went nova and came to life. I was pulled into the star. But instead of burning up, I passed into a universe where everything operates in reverse to my universe.
KIRK: Our universe.
KARLA (screen): Yes. My theory is that two stars going nova in the same place in both universes created a gateway which I passed through.
APRIL: In her universe, a nova is a dead star which comes to life! And when the explosions of a nova in her universe and one in our universe occur together, it's possible to travel between the two universes.
KIRK: Then we must return the same way, through the two novas.
KARLA (screen): That would be impossible, Captain. Amphion is no longer nova. It has begun it's life as a star. I suggest you set a course to follow my ship. Perhaps our scientists can help solve your problem.
KIRK: We have little choice.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are proceeding to Karla Five's planet, Arret.

[Briefing room]
KIRK: Gentlemen, I'm sure none of us mind growing younger instead of older for a change.
APRIL: It pleases me, Jim. If we stay here long enough, I'll no longer be at the mandatory retirement age.
KIRK: Nevertheless, we must return home and I am open to suggestions.
SPOCK: It is logical that we must reproduce the conditions that brought us here. Two novas must occupy the same space in both universes in order to create a gateway for us to travel through. One star dying in our universe, and one being born here would recreate the correct conditions.
APRIL: That would take a remarkable coincidence, Mister Spock.
UHURA (screen): Captain, we are approaching Arret. Karla Five is asking if you are prepared to beam down to the planet.
KIRK: Tell Karla Five that Mister Spock, Commodore April and myself will be beaming down.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Karla Five has given us coordinates to beam down to her son's laboratory, Captain.
KIRK: Her son? We don't have time for children's games right now, Scotty, but beam us down.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.

[Laboratory]
KARLA: May I introduce my son, Karl Four.
KARL: My honor to meet you, gentlemen.
SPOCK: Most logical. If the flow of time is reversed, then one is born at an old age, and dies in infancy. Your descendants are born before you, and your ancestors are born after you.
KIRK: Then the young child in the playpen
KARLA: My father, Captain.
KIRK: We could remain forever awed with the differences between our universes, Karla Five, but we must discover a way to return to our positive matter universe.
KARL: Exactly the problem I have been working on since Karla informed me of your troubles, Captain Kirk. This is a map of our galaxy. Our home solar system is here. You entered our universe through the Amphion nova, here.
KIRK: We need to coordinate this to our own universe. Can we do that, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Apparently the two universes occupy the same space, but in different dimensions.
APRIL: Assuming Beta Niobe and Amphion occupy the same space, we can determine if there are any other novas occupying the same space in both universes.
SPOCK: Correct, Commodore. Now if you'll watch the star map, you'll see the Milky Way. Here is Beta Niobe, and here is Earth. It corresponds exactly with Arret. By superimposing both star maps, we will see where two stars occupy the same place in both universes. The red spheres indicate where two stars are in the same space. No pair are novas in both universes.
APRIL: If stars begin as dead stars here then we could bring one of them to life prematurely.
KIRK: Yes, we could act as a midwife giving birth to a star. Then we would have two novas in the same position and theoretically return home.
KARLA: But I had to pass through the novas at my ship's top speed to avoid burning up. Your ship isn't capable of such a speed.
SPOCK: That's true, Captain.
KARLA: You are welcome to use my ship, Captain.
KIRK: I have a crew of four hundred and thirty, Karla Five. Your ship is suitable for only a few people.
SPOCK: We can't use her ship to transport us, Captain, but we could use it as an unmanned ship with our tractor beam attached.
APRIL: It could work. That's how we arrived here in the first place.
KIRK: It should work, yes. But any miscalculation anywhere along the way and we'll be plunging tail first into a supernova.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 6770.1. Time continues to flow backward for us. We have set course for a dead star in this anti-matter universe that corresponds with the nova Minara in ours. We're being pulled by Karla Five's unmanned vessel, which is equipped with enough positive matter armament to ignite the dead star into life.

[Bridge]
KIRK: we just might get you to Babel after all, Commodore.
APRIL: I'll be glad to get home, but not necessarily to Babel. It only means the end of my career, Jim.
UHURA: Message coming in from Arret, Captain.
KARLA (screen): I want to wish you luck, Captain. Whether you succeed or fail, the outcome will remain unknown to me.
KIRK: Yes, Karla Five. We'll burn to a crisp or escape into our own universe. Either way, you'll never hear from us again. Thank you for the sacrifice of your vessel.
KARLA (screen): It is a small sacrifice, Captain Kirk. Success.
SULU: Tractor beam working properly, Captain.
AREX: We're meeting the speed of Karla Five's unmanned vessel, Captain.
KIRK: How much time before the youngest crew member returns to the time of birth?
SPOCK: Eighteen minutes thirty seven seconds in real time. But long before that we shall all be children. And, Captain, that also means we are losing our knowledge at an alarming rate. It is possible we will soon be unable to operate the Enterprise.
KIRK: How is our course, Mister Sulu?
SULU: I don't know. What am I doing here? What is all this equipment?
SPOCK: He's too young, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Arex, take over for him. Lieutenant Uhura, report to navigation console.
UHURA: I'm sorry, sir, I don't understand all this equipment. What do I do with these controls?
KIRK: Never mind. Spock, can you fill in for Sulu and Uhura?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain, but who will fill in for you?
KIRK: What do you mean?
SPOCK: At what age did you become a starship captain? And when did you enter Starfleet Academy?
KIRK: I see what you mean.
SPOCK: As a Vulcan, I age the slowest. I will be capable of assuming command longer than anyone else. But even I will become too young to know what to do.
KIRK (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have eleven minutes of real time left to reach the dead star, but all around my crew are turning into children, unable to operate the ship.

[Bridge]
SPOCK: Ten minutes fourteen point twenty one seconds, Captain. We shall arrive with only moments to spare. We will need to disconnect the tractor beam at the appropriate time.
KIRK: Tractor beam? How do we do that, Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, I must assume command. You are no longer able to command the Enterprise.
KIRK: Whatever you say. What shall I do?
APRIL: Mister Spock, as long as I am aboard, I am senior officer. I hate to pull rank, but you will be capable of command only for a few minutes, not long enough to complete the maneuvers necessary to take us home.
SPOCK: You are correct, of course. Commodore April, command is yours.
APRIL: Commodore? I'm Captain April, Mister Spock.
SARAH: Robert, we're the only adults on the bridge. They're all teenagers and children.
APRIL: Make sure no harm comes to them, Sarah. We have to ignite that dead star if we're going home. Mister Spock, you are still capable of following orders?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
APRIL: Very good. Assume your post at the navigation console.
SPOCK: The dead star is directly ahead, Captain, twelve degrees south of galactic plane.
APRIL: Arm Karla Five's vessel, Spock.
SPOCK: Vessel armed, Captain. Nine seconds to impact. Eight, seven,
SPOCK: Three, two
APRIL: Hang on, we're going right into the heart of the nova.
APRIL: We did it! We're home again! We're all right. We're home. The reverse aging process has stopped.
SARAH: But the Enterprise crew, they're all children.
APRIL: They can enter the transporter. It retains a memory of their original molecular structure.
SARAH: But what about us? We don't have to use the transporter. We can remain young, live our lives over again. You could command a starship once more.
APRIL: What a blessing to be able to live one's life over again, if the life you've led has left you unfulfilled. No Sarah, I don't want to live it all over again. I couldn't improve one bit on what we've had together.
SARAH: Oh, Robert.
KIRK: We've received a message from the Federation that might bring you some cheer. Lieutenant Uhura, would you relay it to Commodore April and his wife?
UHURA: In view of Commodore April's heroic actions aboard the USS Enterprise this stardate, we are reviewing his mandatory retirement, and will consider his appeal to remain Federation Ambassador at large.
APRIL: Well, good. Just because someone is seventy five years old doesn't mean they're ready to stop giving service to the galaxy!
SULU: Arriving at Babel in one hour fifteen minutes, Captain.
KIRK: I see your flower has blossomed again.
SARAH: Yes, our trip into the negative universe gave it a second life. It gave all of us a second life.