PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Our destination is planet Deneb Four, beyond which lies the great unexplored mass of the galaxy. My orders are to examine Farpoint, a starbase built there by the inhabitants of that world. Meanwhile, I am becoming better acquainted with my new command, this Galaxy Class USS Enterprise. I am still somewhat in awe of its size and complexity. As for my crew, we are short in several key positions, most notably a first officer, but I am informed that a highly experienced man, one Commander William Riker, will be waiting to join our ship at our Deneb Four destination.

[Bridge]
PICARD: You will agree, Data, that Starfleet's orders are difficult?
DATA: Difficult? Simply solve the mystery of Farpoint Station.
PICARD: As simple as that.
TROI: Farpoint Station. Even the name sounds mysterious.
PICARD: It's hardly simple, Data, to negotiate a friendly agreement for Starfleet to use the base while at the same time snoop around finding how and why the life form there built it.
DATA: Inquiry. The word snoop?
PICARD: Data, how can you be programmed as a virtual encyclopedia of human information without knowing a simple word like snoop?
DATA: Possibility, a kind of human behavior I was not designed to emulate.
PICARD: It means to spy, to sneak.
DATA: Ah! To seek covertly, to go stealthily, to slink, slither
PICARD: Exactly, yes.
DATA: Glide, creep, skulk, pussyfoot, gumshoe.
TROI: Captain, I'm sensing a powerful mind.
TORRES: Something strange on the detector circuits.
DATA: It registers as solid, Captain.
TROI: Or an incredibly powerful forcefield. But if we collide with either it could be very
PICARD: Shut off that damned noise. Go to Yellow Alert.
WORF: Shields and deflectors up, sir.
PICARD: Reverse power, full stop.
TORRES: Controls to full stop, sir. Now reading full stop, sir.
Q: Thou are notified that thy kind hath infiltrated the galaxy too far already. Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system immediately.
PICARD: That's quite a directive. Would you mind identifying what you are?
Q: We call ourselves the Q. Or thou mayst call me that. It's all much the same thing.
Q: I present myself to thee as a fellow ship captain, that thou mayst better understand me. Go back whence thou camest. Stay where thou art!
PICARD: Data, call medics.
TROI: He's frozen.
PICARD: He would not have injured you. Do you recognize this, the stun setting?
Q: Knowing humans as thou dost, Captain, wouldst thou be captured helpless by them? Now, go back or thou shalt most certainly die.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplementary. The frozen form of Lieutenant Torres has been rushed to sickbay. The question now is the incredible power of the Q being. Do we dare oppose it?

[Bridge]
Q: Captain, thy little centuries go by so rapidly. Perhaps thou will better understand this.
Q: Actually, the issue at stake is patriotism. You must return to your world and put an end to the commies. All it takes is a few good men.
PICARD: What? That nonsense is centuries behind us.
Q: But you can't deny that you're still a dangerous, savage child race.
PICARD: Most certainly I deny it. I agree we still were when humans wore costumes like that, four hundred years ago.
Q: At which time you slaughtered millions in silly arguments about how to divide the resources of your little world. And four hundred years before that you were murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god-images. Since there are no indications that humans will ever change.
PICARD: But even when we wore costumes like that we'd already started to make rapid progress.
Q: Oh yeah? You want to review your rapid progress?
Q: Rapid progress, to where humans learned to control their military with drugs.
WORF: Sir, sickbay reports Lieutenant Torres's condition is better.
Q: Oh, concern for one's fellow comrade. How touching.
WORF: And now a personal request, sir. Permission to clean up the bridge.
TASHA: Lieutenant Worf is right, sir. As Security Chief I can't just stand here and let
PICARD: Yes you can, Lieutenant Yar.
Q: Oh, better. And later, on finally reaching deep space, humans of course found enemies to fight out there too. And to broaden those struggles you again found allies for still more murdering. The same old story, all over again.
PICARD: No. The same old story is the one we're meeting now. Self-righteous life forms who are eager not to learn but to prosecute, to judge anything they don't understand or can't tolerate.
Q: What an interesting idea. Prosecute and judge. Suppose it turns out we understand you humans only too well.
PICARD: We've no fear of what the true facts about us will reveal.
Q: Facts about you? Splendid, splendid, Captain! You're a veritable fountain of good ideas. There are preparations to make, but when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest.
WORF: Sir, respectfully submit our only choice is to fight.
TASHA: Fight, or try to escape.
PICARD: Sense anything, Commander?
TROI: Its mind is much too powerful. Recommend we avoid contact.
PICARD: From this point, no station aboard, repeat no station, for any reason will make use of transmitted signals or intercom. We'll try and take them by surprise. Let's see what this galaxy class starship can do. Lieutenant, inform engine room to prepare for maximum acceleration.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Records search, Data. Results of detaching saucer section at high warp velocity.
DATA: Inadvisable at any warp speed, sir.
PICARD: Search theoretical.
DATA: It is possible, sir. But absolutely no margin for error.
PICARD: Using print-out only, notify all decks to prepare for maximum acceleration. Now hear this, Maximum, you're entitled to know, means that we'll be pushing our engines well beyond safety limits. Our hope is to surprise whatever that is out there, try and outrun it. Our only other option is to tuck tail between our legs and return to Earth as they demand.
WORF: Engine room ready, sir.
TROI: The board shows green, Captain. All go.
PICARD: Stand by. Engage.
WORF: Velocity warp nine point two.
DATA: Heading three five one mark eleven, sir.
PICARD: Steady on that.
TASHA: The hostile is now giving chase, sir. Accelerating fast.
WORF: We're now at warp nine point three, sir, which takes us past the red line, sir.
PICARD: Continue accelerating. Counselor, at this point I'm open to guesses about what we've just met.
TROI: It it felt like something beyond what we'd consider a life form.
PICARD: Beyond?
TROI: Very, very advanced, sir, or certainly very, very different.
WORF: We're at nine point four, sir.
TASHA: Hostile is now beginning to overtake us, sir.
PICARD: Are you sure?
DATA: Hostile's velocity is already warp nine point six, sir. Shall I put them on the main viewer?
PICARD: Reverse angle.
DATA: Magnifying viewer image.
TASHA: Hostile's velocity is nine point seven, sir.
PICARD: Worf, inform the engine room we need more.
DATA: Engine room attempting to comply, sir, but they caution us
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Arm aft photon torpedoes. Place them on ready status.
TASHA: Torpedoes to ready, sir.
TASHA: Hostile now at warp nine point eight, sir.
WORF: Our velocity is only nine point five, sir.
DATA: Projection, sir. We may be able to match hostile's nine point eight, sir. But at extreme risk.
TASHA: Now reading the hostile at warp nine point nine, sir.
PICARD: Now hear this. Print-out message, urgent, all stations on all decks. Prepare for emergency saucer sever. You will command the saucer section, Lieutenant.
WORF: I am a Klingon, sir. For me to seek escape when my Captain goes into battle.
PICARD: You are a Starfleet officer, Lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Make the mark, Data. Note in ship's log that at this startime, I'm transferring command to the battle bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing to detach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship's company can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive, containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turn back and confront the mystery that is threatening us.

[Battle Bridge]
PICARD: Lieutenant, your torpedoes must detonate close enough to the hostile to blind it at the moment we separate.
TASHA: Understood, sir.
TROI: All decks acknowledging, sir.
PICARD: Worf, this is the Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): At the moment of separation, we will reverse power just enough to get your saucer section out ahead and clear of us.
WORF: Understood, Captain.

[Battle Bridge]
TASHA: Torpedoes away, sir.
PICARD: Begin countdown. Mark.
DATA: Starship separation in six, five, four, three, two, one.
DATA: Separation is successful, sir.
TASHA: Torpedoes have detonated, sir.
PICARD: Let's come to a stop. Reverse power.
DATA: Reverse power. Decelerating.
PICARD: Dead stop. We'll hold this position and wait for them.
TROI: That will bring them here in just minutes, sir.
TASHA: Will we make a fight of it, Captain? If we can at least damage their ship we'll have a chance
PICARD: Lieutenant, are you recommending we fight a life form that can do all those things? I'd like to hear your advice.
TASHA: I spoke before I thought, sir. We should look for some way to distract them from going after the saucer.
O'BRIEN: All forward motion stopped, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, conn. Commander, signal the following in all languages and on all frequencies. We surrender. State that we are not asking for any terms or conditions.
TROI: Aye, sir. All language forms and frequencies.

[Courtroom]
BAILIFF: The prisoners will all stand.
DATA: Historically intriguing, Captain. Very, very accurate.
PICARD: Mid twenty first century. The post-atomic horror.
BAILIFF: All present, stand and make respectful attention to honored Judge.
TROI: Careful, sir. This is not an illusion or a dream.
PICARD: But these courts happened in the past.
TROI: I don't understand either, but this is real.
SOLDIER: Get to your feet, criminals!
DATA: At least we are acquainted with the judge, Captain.
SOLDIER: Attention! On your feet. Attention!
Q: You are out of order. The prisoners will not be harmed until they are found guilty. Dispose of that.
PICARD: Can we assume you mean this will be a fair trial?
Q: Yes, absolutely equitable. Proceed.
BAILIFF: Before this gracious court now appear these prisoners to answer for the multiple and grievous savageries of their species. How plead you, criminal?
DATA: If I may, Captain? Objection, your honor. In the year 2036, the new United Nations declared that no Earth citizen could be made to answer for the crimes of his race or forbears.
Q: Objection denied. This is a court of the year 2079, by which time more rapid progress had caused all United Earth nonsense to be abolished.
PICARD: Tasha, no.
TASHA: I must! Because I grew up on a world that allowed things like this court. And it was people like these that saved me from it. This so-called court should get down on its knees to what Starfleet is, what it represents.
TROI: You barbarian! This woman
BAILIFF: Criminals keep silence!
PICARD: You've got a lot to learn about humans if you think you can torture us or frighten us into silence. Will she live?
DATA: Uncertain. When he froze Lieutenant Torres on the Bridge, we had our Sickbay to help thaw him out.
BAILIFF: You will answer the charges, criminals.
PICARD: Or what? Or this? Her death? Or worse? You promised the prisoners will not be harmed. We plead nothing so long as you break your own rules.
Q: I suggest you center your attention on this trial, Captain. It may be your only hope.
PICARD: I suggest you are now having second thoughts it. You are considering that if you conduct a fair trial, which was your promise, you may lose.
Q: Lose?
PICARD: Yes, even though you're judge and prosecutor.
Q: And jury.
PICARD: Accepted, so long as you keep to your agreement. And assaulting prisoners is hardly a fair trial.
Q: This is a merciful court. Silence! Continuing these proceedings, I must caution you that legal trickery is not permitted. This is a court of
PICARD: court of fact! We humans know our past, even when we're ashamed of it. I recognize this court system as the one that agreed with that line from Shakespeare. Kill all the lawyers.
Q: Which was done.
PICARD: Which led to the rule guilty until proven innocent.
Q: Of course. Bringing the innocent to trial would be unfair. You will now answer to the charge of being a grievously savage race.
PICARD: Grievously savage could mean anything. I will answer only specific charges.
Q: Are you certain you want a full disclosure of human ugliness? So be it, fool! Present the charges.
BAILIFF: Criminal, you will read the charges to the court.
PICARD: I see no charges against us, Your Honor.
Q: You are out of order!
Q: Soldiers, you will press those triggers if this criminal answers with any word other than guilty. Criminal, how plead you?
PICARD: Guilty. Provisionally.
Q: The Court will hear the provision.
PICARD: We question whether this court is abiding by its own trial instructions. Have I have permission to have Commander Data repeat the record?
Q: There will be no legal trickery
PICARD: These will be your own words, your Honor. What exactly what followed his Honor's statement that the prisoner will not be harmed?
DATA: Yes, sir. The Captain had asked the question. Can we assume you mean this will be a fair trial? And in reply the judge stated, yes, absolutely equitable.
Q: Irrelevant testimony, entirely irrelevant.
PICARD: Alright! We agree there is evidence to support the court's contention that humans have been savage. Therefore I say test us. Test whether this is presently true of humans.
Q: I see, I see. And so you petition the Court to accept you and your comrades as proof of what humanity has become.
PICARD: There must be many ways we can be tested. We have a long mission ahead of us.
Q: Another brilliant suggestion, Captain. But your test hardly requires a long mission. Your immediate destination offers far more challenge than you can possibly imagine. Yes, this Farpoint station will be an excellent test.
BAILIFF: All present, respectfully stand.
Q: This trial is adjourned, to allow the criminals to be tested.
BAILIFF: This honorable court is adjourned. Stand respectfully.
Q: Captain, you may find you are not nearly clever enough to deal with what lies ahead for you. It may have been better to accept sentence here.

[Battle Bridge]
DATA: What is present course, conn?
O'BRIEN: It's what it's been all along, sir. Direct heading to Farpoint Station.
DATA: Confirm. We are on that heading, sir.
O'BRIEN: Know anything about Farpoint Station, sir? Sounds like a fairly dull place.
PICARD: We've heard that we may find it rather interesting. Personal log, Commander William Riker. Stardate 41153.7. The USS Hood has dropped me off at Farpoint Station, where I await the arrival of the new USS Enterprise to which I have been assigned as First Officer. Meanwhile I have been asked to visit the Farpoint Administrator's Office, in the old city.

[Zorn's office]
ZORN: Ah, Commander Riker, I thought you'd want to know we've still no word from your vessel. I trust we made your waiting comfortable?
RIKER: Luxurious is more like it.
ZORN: Good. Good.
RIKER: Would I seem ungrateful if I ask for some information?
ZORN: Anything.
RIKER: Fascinating, the advanced materials used in constructing this space station. Your energy supply must be as abundant as I've heard.
ZORN: Geothermal energy is the one great blessing of this planet. I'll have all the details of that sent to your quarters.
RIKER: Thank you. But it still seems incredible to me that you could have constructed this station so rapidly and so, so perfectly suited to our needs.
ZORN: Would your care for an Earth delicacy, Commander?
RIKER: If there's an apple?
ZORN: I'm sorry, Commander.
RIKER: It doesn't matter. What I was saying was I'll be damned.
ZORN: Ah yes, there was another selection here
RIKER: Groppler, I could have sworn it wasn't here a minute ago.
ZORN: And did your failure to notice it make it unwelcome?
RIKER: Not at all, Groppler.
ZORN: I trust it will be the same with Farpoint Station, Commander. A few easily answered questions about it won't make Starfleet appreciate it less.
RIKER: And it's delicious. Thank you. Good morning, Groppler Zorn.
ZORN: Good morning.
ZORN: You have been told not to do that. Why can't you understand? It will arouse their suspicion. And if that happens, we will have to punish you. We will, I promise you.

[Market place]
RIKER: Doctor Crusher!
WESLEY: Mother, it's Commander Riker.
RIKER: Hello, Wes. Enjoying Farpoint Station?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: I saw you. I thought I might join you for a stroll.
CRUSHER: Actually, we were about to do some shopping.
RIKER: I've been meaning to visit the mall myself.
CRUSHER: Of course.
WESLEY: If you're wondering about Mom, Commander Riker, she's not unfriendly. She's just shy around men she doesn't know.
CRUSHER: Wesley! I believe that means he would like us to be friends.
RIKER: I'm willing, Doctor. Although we're not officially part of the Enterprise, I thought there might be something useful we can do while we wait.
CRUSHER: Useful? How, Commander?
RIKER: Investigating some things that I've noticed since I've been here. The last was a piece of fruit.
CRUSHER: Gold would be lovely with this. I am sure, Commander, there are reasons for a first officer to want to demonstrate his energy and alertness to a new captain. But since my duty and interests are outside the command structure
RIKER: Isn't it remarkable they happen to have exactly what you asked for?
CRUSHER: Thank you. I'll take the entire bolt. Send it to our starship when it arrives. Charge to Doctor Crusher.
RIKER: Let's see, where were we?
CRUSHER: I was accusing you of inventing work in order to curry favor with our new captain. I apologize.
WESLEY: Mom, that gold pattern wasn't there.
CRUSHER: Maybe this is something Jean-Luc would like looked into.
RIKER: Jean-Luc Picard? You know the Captain?
WESLEY: When I was little, he brought my father's body home to us.
CRUSHER: Yes, Wes, long, long ago. A pleasure to meet you, Commander. You will excuse us.
RIKER: My pleasure, Doctor. Wes.
WESLEY: Sir?
RIKER: See you on board.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Sir, the Enterprise is arriving
RIKER: Is this an official report, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander. Sir, Lieutenant La Forge reporting. The Enterprise arriving, but without the saucer section, sir.
RIKER: Stardrive section only? What happened?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. Captain Picard has signaled for you to beam up immediately.
RIKER: Our new captain doesn't waste time. It's a good idea. Thank you, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Commander Riker at Farpoint Station. Standing by to beam up.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar of Security, sir. Captain Picard will see you on the Battle Bridge.

[Corridor]
RIKER: With the saucer gone, I assume something interesting happened on your way here?

[Turbolift]
TASHA: Battle bridge. That's for the Captain to explain, sir.

[Battle bridge]
PICARD: Do we have clearance?
DATA: Aye, sir, into the standard parking orbit.
PICARD: Make it so.
TASHA: Commander Riker, sir.
RIKER: Riker, WT, reporting as ordered, sir.
PICARD: Is the viewer ready?
TASHA: All set up, sir.
PICARD: We'll first bring you up to date on a little adventure we had on our way here, Commander. Then we'll talk. Welcome aboard.
TASHA: This way, sir. (She sits him down in front of a screen and runs a tape of the Q encounter on the Bridge)
Q (screen): Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system immediately. Go back or thou shalt most certainly die. You can't deny you're still a dangerous, savage, child race.
DATA: Message from the saucer module, sir. It will arrive here in fifty one minutes.
PICARD: Inform them we'll connect as soon as they arrive. And sent the Commander to me when he's finished.
TASHA: Yes, sir.
Q (screen): And four hundred years before that, you were murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god images. Since then there are no indications that humans will ever change. There are preparations to make, and when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest.
RIKER: He calls that a little adventure?

[Battle ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Not exactly a run of the mill happening, Captain.
PICARD: It seems we're alive only because we have been placed on probation. A very serious kind of probation. Go.
DATA (voiceover): The saucer module is now entering orbit with us, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Commander Riker will conduct a manual docking. Picard out.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You've reported in, haven't you? You are qualified?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then I mean now, Commander.

[Battle bridge]
DATA: They say you will be doing this manually, sir. No automation.
RIKER: As ordered.
RIKER: Velocity to one half meter per second. Adjust pitch angle, negative three degrees. Watch your roll angle, conn. All stations, prepare for reconnection. Thrusters to station keeping. All velocity zero. Her inertia should do the job now. Lock up now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: A fairly routine maneuver but you handled it quite well.
RIKER: Thank you, sir. I hope I showed some promise.
PICARD: I do have some questions for you though.
RIKER: Yes, sir, I thought you might.
PICARD: I see in your file that Captain DeSoto thinks very highly of you. One curious thing, however, you refused to let him beam down to Altair Three.
RIKER: In my opinion, sir, Altair Three was too dangerous to risk exposing the Captain.
PICARD: I see. A Captain's rank means nothing to you.
RIKER: Rather the reverse, sir. But a Captain's life means a great deal to me.
PICARD: Isn't it just possible that you don't get to be a Starfleet Captain without knowing whether it's safe to beam down or not? Isn't it a little presumptuous of a first officer to second guess his captain's judgment?
RIKER: Permission to speak candidly, sir?
PICARD: Always.
RIKER: Having been a first officer yourself, you know that assuming that responsibility must by definition include the safety of the captain. I have no problem with following any rules you lay down, short of compromising your safety.
PICARD: And you don't intend to back off that position?
RIKER: No, sir,
PICARD: One further thing. A special favor.
RIKER: Anything, sir.
PICARD: Using the same kind of strength you showed with Captain DeSoto, I would appreciate it if you can keep me from making an ass of myself with children.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: I'm not a family man, Riker, and yet, Starfleet has given me a ship with children aboard.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And I don't feel comfortable with children. But, since a captain needs an image of geniality, you're to see that's what I project.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise, Commander Riker.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Naturally I've heard of your case. The visor implants you wear
LAFORGE: Is a remarkable piece of bio-electronic engineering by which I quote see much of the EM spectrum ranging from simple heat and infrared through radio waves et cetera, et cetera, and forgive me if I've said and listened to this a thousand times before.
CRUSHER: You've been blind all your life?
LAFORGE: I was born this way.
CRUSHER: And you've felt pain all the years that you've used this?
LAFORGE: They say it's because I use my natural sensors in different ways.
CRUSHER: Well, I see two choices. The first is painkillers.
LAFORGE: Which would affect how this works. No. Choice number two?
CRUSHER: Exploratory surgery. Desensitize the brain areas troubling you.
LAFORGE: Same difference. No, thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I understand.
LAFORGE: See you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes sir?
RIKER: Where will I find Commander Data?
WORF: Commander Data is on special assignment, sir. He's using our shuttlecraft to transfer an admiral over to the Hood.
RIKER: An admiral?
WORF: He's been aboard all day, sir, checking over medical layout.
RIKER: Why a shuttlecraft? Why wouldn't he just beam over?
WORF: I suppose he could, sir, but the Admiral's a rather remarkable man.

[Corridor]
MCCOY: Have you got some reason you want my atoms scattered all over space, boy?
DATA: No sir. But at your age, sir, I thought you shouldn't have to put up with the time and trouble of a shuttlecraft.
MCCOY: Hold it right there, boy.
DATA: Sir?
MCCOY: What about my age?
DATA: Sorry, sir. If that subject troubles you
MCCOY: Troubles me? What's so damned troubling about not having died? How old do you think I am?
DATA: One hundred thirty seven years, Admiral, according to Starfleet records.
MCCOY: Explain how you remember that so exactly.
DATA: I remember every fact I am exposed to, sir.
MCCOY: I don't see any points on your ears, boy, but you sound like a Vulcan.
DATA: No, sir. I'm an android.
MCCOY: Almost as bad.
DATA: I thought it was generally accepted, sir, that Vulcans are an advanced and most honorable race.
MCCOY: They are, they are. And damned annoying at times.
DATA: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Well, this is a new ship, but she's got the right name. Now you remember that, you hear.
DATA: I will, sir.
MCCOY: You treat her like a lady, and she'll always bring you home.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Did you signal the Hood, Commander Riker?
RIKER: Your exact message. Bon voyage mon ami.
PICARD: What was my answer, computer?
Q (voiceover): You're wasting time, Captain. Or did you think I was gone?
PICARD: Lieutenant! Do you intend to blast a hole through the viewer? If the purpose of this is to test humans, your honor, we must proceed in our own way.
Q (screen): You are dilatory. You have twenty four hours. Any further delay and you risk summary judgment against you, Captain.
WORF: Sorry, sir
RIKER: You reacted fast, Mister Worf.
PICARD: But futilely.
WORF: I will learn to do better, sir.
PICARD: Of course you will. We've a long voyage ahead of us.
RIKER: What do we do now, Captain? With them monitoring our every move and every word.
PICARD: We do exactly what we would do if this Q never existed. If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.
PICARD (voiceover): Personal log, stardate 41153.8. Of the twenty four hours Q allotted us to prove ourselves, eleven have now passed without incident. And yet I cannot forget Q's prediction that we will face some critical test.

[Ready room]
RIKER: This planet's interior heat provides an abundance of geothermal energy, sir. But it's about all this world does offer.
PICARD: And it's your belief that this is what made it possible for them to construct this base to Starfleet standards?
RIKER: Yes sir. We have to assume that they've been trading their surplus energy for the construction materials used here. According to our ship's scans, many of the materials used are not found on this world.
PICARD: Perhaps it's like those incidents you describe in your report as almost magical attempts to please us.
RIKER: Those events did happen, sir.
PICARD: None of it suggests anything threatening. If only every life form had as much desire to please. Ready to beam down? I'm looking forward to meeting this Groppler Zorn.
RIKER: I have a feeling there's more to it than just pleasing us, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: As if it's something Q is doing to trick us? Over here. I've asked the Counselor to join us in this meeting. May I introduce our new First Officer, Commander William Riker. Commander Riker, this is our ship's Counselor, Deanna Troi.
TROI (voiceover): Do you remember what I taught you, Imzadi? Can you still sense my thoughts?
TROI: A pleasure, Commander.
RIKER: Likewise, Counselor.
PICARD: Have the two of you met before?
RIKER: We have, sir.
PICARD: Excellent. I consider it important for my key officers know each other's abilities.
TROI: We do, sir. We do.
TROI (voiceover): I, too, would never say goodbye, Imzadi.

[Zorn's office]
PICARD: My crew and I need a bit more information before we make our recommendations to Starfleet.
ZORN: No objections to that, but but I'm puzzled over you bringing a Betazoid to this. If her purpose, sir, is to probe my thoughts
TROI: I can sense only strong emotions, Groppler. I am only half Betazoid. My father was a Starfleet officer.
ZORN: Well, I have nothing to hide, of course.
PICARD: Good, since we admire what we've seen of your construction techniques. Starfleet may be interested in your constructing starbases elsewhere also.
ZORN: We are not interested in building other facilities.
RIKER: If I may, Captain. Then a trade, Groppler? Some things you need in return for lending us architects and engineers who can demonstrate your techniques.
ZORN: Bandi do not enjoy leaving their home world. If Starfleet cannot accept that small weakness, then we will be forced, unhappily, to seek an alliance with someone like the Ferengi, or
PICARD: Counselor? What is it?
TROI: Do you want it described here, sir?
PICARD: Yes. No secrets here if we're to be all to be friends. Agreed, Groppler?
ZORN: We ourselves have nothing to hide, of course.
TROI: Pain. Pain. Loneliness. Terrible loneliness. Despair. I'm not sensing the Groppler, sir, or any of his people, but it's something very close to us here.
PICARD: The source of this, Groppler. Do you have any idea?
ZORN: No. No, absolutely not. And I find nothing helpful or productive in any of this!
PICARD: And that's it? No other comment?
ZORN: Well what do you expect of us? We offer you a base designed to your needs, luxurious even by human standards
PICARD: While evading even our simplest questions about it. We'll adjourn for now while we all reconsider our positions.
ZORN: Captain, the Ferengi would be very interested in a base like this.
PICARD: Fine. I hope they find you as tasty as they did their past associates.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Ensign, can you help me find Commander Data? I understand he's somewhere on this deck.
ENSIGN: This way, sir. You must be new to these Galaxy class starships, sir. Tell me the location of Commander Data.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Commander Data now located in Holodeck area 4J.
ENSIGN: And as you see, sir, it's pointing you that way.
RIKER: Thank you
ENSIGN: You're welcome, sir.
COMPUTER: The next hatchway on your right.
RIKER: Thank you.
COMPUTER: You're welcome, Commander Riker. And if you care to enter, Commander?
RIKER: I do.

[Forest]
RIKER: Hello?
DATA: Marvelous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants answered. He suggests that I take you with me on the away team that I'll be leading.
DATA: I shall endeavor to function adequately, sir.
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record.
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary?
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honors in probability mechanics and exobiology.
RIKER: Your file says that you're an
DATA: Machine, Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little.
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to us?
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways, but I would gladly give it up to be human.
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke.
DATA: Ah. Intriguing.
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data.
DATA: This woodland pattern is quite popular, sir. Perhaps because it duplicates Earth so well. Coming here almost makes me feel human myself.
RIKER: I didn't believe these simulations could be this real.
DATA: Much of it is real, sir. If the transporters can convert our bodies to an energy beam, then back to the original pattern again
RIKER: Yes, of course. And these rocks and vegetation have much simpler patterns.
DATA: Correct, sir. The rear wall.
RIKER: I can't see it.
DATA: We're right next to it.
RIKER: Incredible!
WESLEY (voiceover): Commander Riker!
WESLEY: Commander Riker, isn't this great? This is one of the simpler patterns. They've got thousands more. Some you just can't believe.
RIKER: Careful, the next rock is loose!
RIKER: Wesley!
WESLEY: Wow!

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mister Data has agreed to join me on the away team, Captain.
PICARD: Very good, Commander.
WESLEY: Sir, maybe I should get something to wipe this water up.
PICARD: Good idea.

[Sickbay]
WESLEY: There's a low gravity gymnasium, too. It'd be hard to get bored on this ship.
CRUSHER: Good.
WESLEY: Mom, could you get me a look at the Bridge?
CRUSHER: That's against the Captain's standing orders.
WESLEY: Are you afraid of the Captain too?
CRUSHER: I certainly am not.
WESLEY: But Captain Picard is a pain, isn't he?
CRUSHER: Your father liked him very much. Great explorers are often lonely. No chance to have a family.
WESLEY: Just a look, at the Bridge. I'll stay in the turbolift when the doors open. I won't get off.
CRUSHER: You are asking for trouble, Wes. We'll see what we can do.

[Market place]
TASHA: Recommend that someone could begin by examining the underside of the station, sir.
TROI: Our sensors do show some passages, sir. Perhaps you and I?
RIKER: Tasha, you and the Counselor. And, Geordi, I want your eyes down there. You and I will start with topside.
RIKER: Have you noticed anything unusual?
DATA: I can't see as well as Geordi, sir, but so far the material seems rather very ordinary.
RIKER: Construction records?
DATA: Construction records show this to be almost identical to that which Starfleet uses.
TASHA (voiceover): Team Leader.

[Passageway]
TASHA: We've found something interesting. We're in a passageway directly under the station, sir.
LAFORGE: But these tunnel walls are something I've never seen before, sir.

[Marketplace]
RIKER: How are you examining them?
LAFORGE (voiceover): In every way.

[Passageway]
LAFORGE: Microscopically, thermally, electromagnetically. None of it is familiar.
RIKER (voiceover): What about you, Troi?
TROI: Sir, I've avoided opening my mind. Whatever I felt in the Groppler's office became very uncomfortable.

[Marketplace]
RIKER: I'm sorry, Counselor, but you must. We need more information.

[Passageway]
TROI: Pain. Such pain! Pain!

[Marketplace]
RIKER: Hang on, I'm coming. Enterprise, lock us onto her signal.

[Passageway]
RIKER: I'm sorry. Close your mind to the pain.
TROI: Unhappiness. Terrible despair.
RIKER: Who?
TROI: I don't know. No life form anything like us.
RIKER: What in the hell kind of place is this? Geordi, what do you see?
LAFORGE: Well, it's of no material I recognize, sir, or have even heard of.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Children are not allowed on the Bridge.
CRUSHER: Permission to report to the captain
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Captain. Sir, my son is not on the Bridge. He merely accompanied me on the turbolift.
PICARD: Your son?
CRUSHER: His name's Wesley. You last saw him years ago when
PICARD: Well, as long as he's here. I knew your father, Wesley. Want a look around?
PICARD: But don't touch anything! Try it out. The panel on your right is for log entries, library computer access and retrieval, viewscreen control, intercoms, and so on. Here we have
WESLEY: And here, the backup conn and ops panels, plus shield and armory controls.
PICARD: The forward viewscreen is controlled from the ops position there
WESLEY: Which uses high resolution, multi-spectral imaging sensor systems
PICARD: How the hell do you know that, boy?
WESLEY: Perimeter alert, Captain!
CRUSHER: Wesley!
WESLEY: I'm sorry.
CRUSHER: You shouldn't have touched anything
PICARD: Off the bridge! Both of you.
WORF: You have a perimeter alert, sir.
CRUSHER: As my son tried to tell you!
PICARD: Picard. Go ahead.
SECURITY (voiceover): Ship's sensors have detected the presence of a vessel approaching this planet. No ship is scheduled to arrive at this time, sir.
PICARD: Have Commander Riker and his team beam back up. Security, could that be the Hood returning here?
SECURITY (voiceover): The vessel does not match the Hood's configuration or ID signal.
PICARD: Put it on main viewer. Identification?
WORF: Vessel unknown, configuration unknown, sir.
PICARD: Hail it.
WORF: We've been trying, sir. No response.
PICARD: Raise all shields, phasers at ready.
WORF: Shields up, sir. Phasers ready.
PICARD: Get me Groppler Zorn. And continue universal greetings on all frequencies.
ZORN (voiceover): This is Zorn, Captain.
PICARD: Zorn, an unidentified vessel has entered into orbit with us.

[Zorn's office]
PICARD (voiceover): Do you know who it is?
ZORN: There are no ships scheduled to arrive until

[Bridge]
PICARD: I asked if you knew who it is. You mentioned the Ferengi Alliance to me.

[Zorn's office]
ZORN: But we have had no dealings with them. It was only a, a thought.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are you certain?
ZORN (voiceover): I promise you, Captain.

[Zorn's office]
ZORN: We were making an empty threat. I wanted your cooperation. Forgive me.

[Bridge]
WORF: Definitely entering orbital trajectory, sir.
SECURITY: It measures twelve times our volume, Captain.
WORF: Sensors say we were just scanned, sir.

[Passageway]
TASHA: Pain again?
RIKER: Troi, you've been at it enough.
TROI: No, I feel close to an answer of some kind.
DATA: Commander, something down here is shielding our communicators.
TROI: Yes, that's exactly the feeling I've been reading. As if someone doesn't want us to be in touch with our ship.
RIKER: Come on, let's get to the surface.

[Bridge]
WORF: There is no computer record of any such vessel, sir. Nothing even close.
SECURITY: Still no response, sir. We've done everything but threaten them.
PICARD: Sensor scans, Mister Worf.
WORF: Our sensor signals seem to just bounce off. Something's happening, sir. They're firing on Farpoint, sir!
PICARD: Bring photon torpedoes to ready!
WORF: Wait, sir. They're hitting the old Bandi city, not Farpoint Station.

[Passageway]
TROI: Those stairs are where we entered down here, sir.
LAFORGE: At this point, it becomes ordinary stone, sir. Matching what's above.
TASHA: My God! Was that a phaser blast?
DATA: Negative. But something similar.
RIKER: You, Tasha, and Geordi will beam up to the ship. Now, come on, I want to see exactly what's happening.
TROI: Don't. If you should be hurt
RIKER: You have your orders, Lieutenant. Carry them out.
TROI: Yes sir, I'm sorry, sir. Enterprise, three to beam up.

[Zorn's office]
ZORN: Enterprise, Enterprise, come in! Help us, please! What shall we do?

[Bridge]
ZORN (voiceover): Enterprise, help us, please!
PICARD: Tune that down! Commander Riker, come in. Can you hear me?

[Bandi city]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise, come in.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker, come in. Where are you?
RIKER: With Data, on the edge of the old city, sir. It's being hit hard, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And Farpoint Station? Any damage there?
RIKER (voiceover): Negative on damage to Farpoint, sir. Whoever they are, it seems they're carefully avoiding hitting the station.
PICARD: It's from an unidentified vessel that's entered into orbit with us here.

[Bandi city]
PICARD (voiceover): No ID, no answer to our signals.
RIKER: The old Bandi city's being hit hard, sir. Many casualties very probable.
PICARD (voiceover): Understand, Commander.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Would you object to your Captain ordering a clearly illegal kidnapping?

[Bandi city]
RIKER: No objection, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Groppler Zorn may have the answers we need. Get him. Bring him here.

[Bandi city]
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: They're forcing a difficult decision on me, Counselor.
TROI: But I doubt protecting the Bandi would violate the Prime Directive. True, they are not actual allies, but
PICARD: We are in the midst of diplomatic discussions with them. Lieutenant, lock phasers on that vessel.
TASHA: Phasers locked on, Captain.
Q: Typical. So typical. Savage lifeforms never follow even their own rules.
PICARD: Get off my bridge!
Q: Interesting, that order about phasers.
TASHA: Standing by on phasers, Captain.
Q: Please, don't let me interfere. Use your weapons.
PICARD: We've no idea who is on that vessel. My order was a routine safety precaution.
Q: Really? No idea of what it represents? The meaning of that vessel is as plain, as plain as the noses on your ugly little primate faces. And if you were truly civilized, Captain, wouldn't you be doing something about the casualties happening down there?
PICARD: Captain to CMO.

[Sickbay]
PICARD (voiceover): Are you reading any of this?
CRUSHER: Medical teams already preparing to beam down, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Compliments on that, Doctor. Any questions? Starfleet people are trained to render aid and assistance whenever
Q: But not trained in clear thinking.
PICARD: Let's consider your thoughts. You call us savages and yet you knew those people down there would be killed. It is your conduct that is uncivilized.
WORF: Sir, they're firing on the planet again.
PICARD: Go to maneuvering jets. Position us between that vessel and the planet. Force fields full on.
WORF: Aye, sir. Impulse power to We have no ship control, sir. It's gone!

[Bandi city]
DATA: Are you undamaged?
RIKER: Yes. You?
DATA: All systems operating.

[Zorn's office]
ZORN: Please! Make it stop! You can drive it away!
RIKER: Drive who away, Groppler?
ZORN: I don't know.
DATA: Unlikely, sir. Our records show that you supervised all Bandi contact with other worlds.
ZORN: We done nothing anything wrong!
RIKER: Then if we can learn nothing from you, we'll leave.
ZORN: No! Oh no, please, don't leave. I'll try to explain.
RIKER: First officer to Enterprise. We've lost Zorn. Something like a transporter beam seems to have snatched him away.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Question, sir, could it be this Q?
Q: None of you knows who transported him. You're running out of time, Captain.
TROI: Captain, suddenly I'm sensing something else. Satisfaction. Enormous satisfaction.
PICARD: From the same source as before?
TROI: No, that was on the planet. This is much closer.
Q: Excellent, Counselor. He's such a dullard, isn't he?
CREW (voiceover): Captain from Transporter Room. First Officer and Mister Data have beamed aboard.
Q: Excellent also. Perhaps with more of these little minds helping
PICARD: That is enough, damn it!
Q: Have you forgotten that we have an agreement,
PICARD: An agreement which you are at this moment breaking by taking over our vessel, interfering with my decisions. Either leave or finish us.
Q: Temper, temper, mon Capitaine. I'm merely trying to assist a pitiful species. But perhaps I will leave if Commander Riker provides me with some amusement.
PICARD: Do nothing that he asks.
Q: But I ask so little, and it's so necessary if you're to solve all this. Beam over there with your what do you call it? Your away team.
PICARD: I'll risk none of my crew on that unknown.
Q: You should already know what you'll find there. Or perhaps it's too adult a puzzle for you.
RIKER: With all respect, Captain, I want to beam over there.
Q: You show promise, my good fellow.
RIKER: Have you understood any part of what he's tried to tell you? Humanity is no longer a savage race.
Q: But you must still prove that.
PICARD: At least you impressed him, Number One. That's hopeful.
RIKER: Thank you, Captain. Captain, if he's not open to evidence in our favor, where will you go from there?
PICARD: I'll attend to my duty.
RIKER: To the bitter end?
PICARD: I see nothing so bitter about that.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Can I help you, Captain?
PICARD: I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded.
CRUSHER: Why oh why would I ever think that.
PICARD: I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I made you come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointed out, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp of starship operations.
CRUSHER: You've just won this mother's heart, Captain.
PICARD: Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider and approve you a transfer for you.
CRUSHER: Oh. You consider me unqualified?
PICARD: Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief Medical Officer I want.
CRUSHER: Then you must object to me personally.
PICARD: I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For you to work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of a terrible personal tragedy.
CRUSHER: If I had had any objections to serving with you, I wouldn't have requested this assignment, Captain.
PICARD: You requested this posting?
CRUSHER: My feelings about my husband's death will have no effect on the way I serve you, this vessel, or this mission.
PICARD: Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard. We're ready to beam over, sir.
PICARD: I, er, I hope we can be friends?
CRUSHER: Thank you.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energize.

[Alien vessel]
DATA: Most interesting, sir.
TASHA: It's much the same construction we saw in the underground tunnel.
DATA: But no sound of power. No equipment.
TASHA: How does this ship run?
RIKER: What is it, Troi? Is it the same as you felt down there?
TROI: No. This is much more powerful. Full of anger! Hate!
TASHA: Toward us?
TROI: No. It's directed down toward the old Bandi city.
DATA: Most intriguing again, sir. The place that this vessel was firing upon was not the Farpoint starbase, but the home of those who constructed. Sorry, sir. I seem to be commenting on everything.
RIKER: Good. Don't stop, my friend.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Enterprise, Riker. This is turning out to be a very long tunnel or corridor, sir.

[Alien vessel]
RIKER: No ship's crew in sight. No sign of mechanism or circuitry. No controls or read-outs. This is nothing like any vessel I've seen before.
TROI: Groppler Zorn, sir. A great fear just ahead.

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): There's a different feeling here than in the tunnel. Very different.

[Alien vessel]
ZORN (voiceover): No! Please! No more! Please, no more! Please, please, make it stop! Please! Please! Please! Make it stop! Please!
ZORN: No! Please! No more, please! No more! Please!
RIKER: Zorn. Can you hear me?
ZORN: The pain! No!
TROI: Has the alien communicated?
ZORN: Please! Please! Please, no more!
TROI: That's it, sir. It's just one alien that I'm sensing here.
ZORN: Please! I don't understand what you want!
TROI: Not true. He does know.
ZORN: No, please, no more. No more! No, no, no, don't!

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain!
PICARD: Transporter chief, yank them back now! Riker, acknowledge!
Q: Your time is up, Captain.
PICARD: Transporter Chief, do you have their coordinates? Transporter Chief!
Q: He can't hear you, Captain.
PICARD: Transporter Chief, come in! I've people in trouble over there, Q.
PICARD: Everyone at ease. That's an order. Q, my people are in trouble. Let me help them, please. I'll do whatever you say.
Q: You'll do whatever I say?
PICARD: It seems I did make that bargain.
TROI: The agreement isn't valid, sir. It wasn't Q that saved us.
Q: Save yourself. It may attack you now.
RIKER: It was that which sent us back, Captain.
TROI: Yes sir. It is not merely a vessel, sir. Somehow it is alive.
Q: She lies. Destroy it while you have a chance. Make phasers and photon torpedoes ready.
PICARD: No! Do nothing he demands.
ZORN: Captain, that thing was killing my people!
PICARD: Was there a reason?
Q: It is an unknown, Captain. Isn't that enough?
PICARD: If you'd earned that uniform you're wearing, you'd know that the unknown is what brings us out here.
Q: Wasted effort, considering the human intelligence.
PICARD: Let's test that. Beginning with the tunnels you have under Farpoint, Groppler.
RIKER: Identical to the ones on the space vessel lifeform over there. Why was it punishing you, Groppler?
PICARD: In return for some pain you'd given other creature?
ZORN: We've done nothing wrong. It was injured. We helped it.
PICARD: Thank you. That was the missing part. Lieutenant Yar, rig main phaser banks to deliver an energy beam.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: You're right, Captain. It has to be conceivable that somewhere in this galaxy there could exist creatures able to convert energy into matter.
PICARD: And into specific patterns of matter, just as our transporters do.
TASHA: On the viewer, Captain!
PICARD: Groppler, you captured something like that, didn't you?
ZORN: Warn my people, please, to leave Farpoint Station immediately!
Q: He lies, Captain. Shouldn't you let his people die?
PICARD: Transmit the message, leave Farpoint Space Station immediately.
TROI: Then it was a pair of creatures I was sensing. One down there in grief and pain, the other up here, filled with anger.
DATA: And firing not on the new space station, but on the Bandi and their city.
PICARD: Attacking those who had captured, capture its mate.
TASHA: Energy beam ready, sir.
PICARD: Lock it in on Farpoint Station.
Q: I see now it was too simple a puzzle. Generosity has always been my weakness.
PICARD: Let it have whatever it can absorb. Energize.
TASHA: Now getting feedback on the beam, sir.
PICARD: Discontinue. Groppler Zorn, there'll soon be no Farpoint Station, if I'm right about this.
Q: A lucky guess.
ZORN: Please believe me, we meant no harm to the creature. It was starving for energy.
PICARD: Which your world furnishes you in plenty.
ZORN: We did feed it.
PICARD: Only enough to keep it alive, so that you could force it to shape itself into whatever form you needed!
TROI: Sir! Wonderful! A feeling of great joy. And gratitude. Great joy and gratitude, from both of them.
PICARD: Why do you use other lifeforms for recreation?
Q: If so, you've not provided the best.
PICARD: Leave us! We've passed your little test.
Q: Temper, temper, mon Capitaine.
PICARD: Get off my ship.
Q: I do so only because it suits me to. But I will not promise never to appear again.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41174.2. The agreement for the rebuilding Farpoint Station has been completed per my instructions.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stations?
DATA: Ready for departure, sir.
PICARD: Some problem, Riker?
RIKER: Just hoping this isn't the usual way our missions will go, sir.
PICARD: Oh no, Number One. I'm sure most will be much more interesting. Let's see what's out there. Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 41209.2. We are running at warp seven to rendezvous with the science vessel SS Tsiolkovsky, which has been routinely monitoring the collapse of a red super giant star into a white dwarf. What has brought us here is a series of strange messages indicating something has gone wrong aboard the research vessel.

[Bridge]
DATA: SS Tsiolkovsky, repeat your message.
WOMAN (voiceover): Well hello, Enterprise. Welcome. I hope you have a lot of pretty boys on board, because i'm willing and waiting. In fact, we're going to have a real blow-out here.
MAN (voiceover): Do it! Yeah, go ahead. Do it!
DATA: Captain, what we just heard is impossible.
PICARD: Report.
DATA: I believe that last sound we heard was an emergency hatch being blown.
PICARD: Are you certain? Yes, of course you are.
RIKER: Data, Geordi, Tasha.
WORF: Sensor scan now reveals no life signs aboard, Captain.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: Cover the ship as planned. Move out.
DATA: Indications of what humans would call a wild party?
RIKER: Their Bridge. If this thing works, be sure to record everything.
RIKER: You were right. Somebody blew the hatch. They were all sucked out into space.
DATA: Correction, sir, that's blown out.
RIKER: Thank you, Data.
DATA: A common mistake, sir,
TASHA (voiceover): Commander Riker, Lieutenant Yar. Location Engineering. Ten people here, sir, all frozen. No vital signs.
RIKER: Frozen? How?
TASHA (voiceover): It looks like someone has been playing with the environmental controls, sir. Just let all the heat bleed away into space.

[Tsiolkovsky Crew Quarters]
LAFORGE: Sir, Lieutenant La Forge in the crew quarters. Something in here. (He finds a door which is trying to close. He opens it and a corpse falls out into his arms.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: Riker to Captain, I have a report for you, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here.
RIKER: They're all dead.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Apparently some of them were apparently blown out the emergency hatches.
PICARD: But there were eighty people on that ship, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes sir.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: As I said, all dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are downloading the research information gathered on the collapsing star nearby. I am concerned at being in such close orbit, but the Tsiolkovsky's research records will no doubt predict the time of the star's final collapse.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I can't find anything unusual in any of the tricorder readings they've sent over, Captain.
PICARD: Give me a theory, Doctor. Anything. Madness? Mass hysteria? Delusion?
TROI: Any or all, Captain.
PICARD: All right. Let's bring the away team back. Set the transporter to maximum decontamination, and then full examination and observation when they're here.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If you were any more perfect, Data, I'd write you up in a Starfleet medical textbook.
DATA: I am already listed in several bio-mechanical texts, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Yes of course. You're next, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: Normal all across. Except, why are you perspiring, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: I suppose because you have it too hot in here. What else would it be?
RIKER: That doesn't sound like you, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe it's not. Maybe she threw her voice. Hey, it was a joke.
CRUSHER: Of course, but I would like to run one or two more tests on you, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge,
PICARD: Picard here. Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I'm confining Lieutenant La Forge to Sickbay until further notice.
PICARD: Do we have a problem, Doctor?

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I don't know yet.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, I need help in locating some library computer information.
DATA: Specifics, sir?
RIKER: All I have is a vague memory of reading somewhere about someone taking a shower in his or her clothing.
DATA: Ah. The body Geordi discovered.
RIKER: I believe it may have happened before.
DATA: To someone, somewhere.
RIKER: This ought to be easy for someone written up in bio-mechanical texts.
DATA: About that, sir. Did the Doctor believe I was boasting?
RIKER: Probably. This may take some time.
DATA: At least several hours. But what I said was a statement of fact. Perhaps she will look it up.
RIKER: You can depend on it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Geordi!

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Security. Lieutenant La Forge just left Sickbay while I was in my office.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): He doesn't have his communicator. It is very important that we find him.
TASHA: Security team alert, pick up Lieutenant La Forge. He just left Sickbay moments ago. Captain, anything further?
PICARD: Affirmative. Make it a ship-wide search, Lieutenant.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: It's a model of the same kind of tractor beam our ship uses with a few ideas of my own added.
LAFORGE: So that's your science project, huh? Wes, you're really something.
WESLEY: And since the Captain won't let me on the Bridge, I use this to imagine I'm there.
PICARD (voiceover): Take the helm, Mister Crusher. Set a course for thirty seven mark one hundred eighty. Warp six.
LAFORGE: It's the Captain's voice.
WESLEY: It's pieced together from words he's used on the intercom. With this, I can pretend he's ordering me to take the Enterprise anywhere. And listen to this,
PICARD (voiceover): Chief Engineer, report to the Bridge. Commander Riker, report to the Bridge. Doctor Crusher, report to the Bridge.
WESLEY: What do you think?
LAFORGE: I think the Captain's lucky you're on his side.
WESLEY: But he still won't let me on the Bridge. And there's nothing there I don't understand.
LAFORGE: I wish I understood myself that well.
WESLEY: Are you okay?
LAFORGE: No, Suddenly I seem to be burning up inside. It's hot in here.

[Observation lounge]
TASHA: Geordi? Geordi? Lieutenant Yar in the Observation lounge. Send a team here now. Medical's been worried about you.
LAFORGE: Help me. Help me to not to give in to the wild things coming into my mind,
TASHA: Geordi, my job is security,
LAFORGE: Tasha, please.
TASHA: Alright. Alright, helping is more important. Geordi, how can I help you?
LAFORGE: Help me to see. Like you do.
TASHA: But you already see better than I can.
LAFORGE: I see more. But more isn't better.
TASHA: Geordi, please put
LAFORGE: I want to see in shallow, dim, beautiful human ways.
TASHA: We'll talk about it, Geordi. Right now I'm going to take you to Sickbay. All right?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
TASHA: Okay. Good.

[Sickbay]
TASHA: And then we got him down to Sickbay so Doctor Crusher could examine him.
PICARD: He wasn't violent?
TASHA: No, sir. He was very upset. He kept talking about wanting normal vision.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: According to our medical readouts, there's still nothing wrong with him. He looks like he's running a temperature but every instrument we have says he's not.
PICARD: Doctor, every person on that ship over there died. Is there any chance that whatever did it is loose on my ship?
CRUSHER: If you mean a disease, sir, I'd say there's no chance of it. We used full decontamination, we examined every team member very carefully,
PICARD: The entire crew somehow managed to kill themselves, Doctor. If it's not a disease, what else could have made them do that?
CRUSHER: The obvious alternatives would be in areas of insanity and severe emotional upset. Troi, do you feel anything unusual in the lieutenant?
PICARD: Security just told me that he was longing for normal eyesight. That's a sudden yearning for that.
TROI: Since his records show no previous mention of that, the fact that it's happened now could be important. But all I sense from him is confusion. If I didn't know better, I'd say he was intoxicated.
CRUSHER: Our tests would have shown that. Also any other signs of drugs, hallucinogens or other contaminants.

[Bridge]
DATA: Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of someone showering in his or her clothing is
RIKER: I know. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack.
DATA: Why should anyone wish to expend his time in such a search?
RIKER: Correction, Data, I should have said proverbial needle in a haystack.
DATA: Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion, or tribal memories
RIKER: Historical. That's it. I remember I was reading a history of all the past starships named Enterprise.
DATA: Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference,
RIKER: Captain, I believe we've have the answer to what happened over there.
PICARD: The Constitution class Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk commanding.
RIKER: Similar conditions. They were monitoring a planet that was breaking up, not a collapsing star as in this case. But there were the same huge shifts in gravity,
PICARD: Which somehow resulted in complex strings of water molecules which acquired carbon from the body and acted on the brain like alcohol. Data, download this information to Medical immediately.
DATA: Aye, sir. Downloading.
PICARD: Fascinating! The entire crew going out of control,
RIKER: Like intoxication, but worse. Judgment almost completely impaired,
PICARD: Until they found this formula, barely in time. Picard to Doctor Crusher, come in.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is Crusher. Go ahead Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): You can relax, Doctor.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The answer to all of this is feeding into your medical banks right now. Including a cure.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Are you certain, Captain?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Absolutely.

[Troi's Quarters]
TROI: Tasha? What are you doing?
TASHA: I need your advice. That's why I came to your quarters.
TROI: Of course. Anything I can do
TASHA: On clothes. You always wear such beautiful clothes off duty. And your hair always looks so nice. I want to change my image. What do you think about this? Or this one?
TROI: It's not for you. Tasha, I feel you're very uncertain. Yhat you're fighting something. What is it?
TASHA: Never mind. I'll find what I need myself. Ship's stores will have it.
TROI: Tasha? Tasha, wait.

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): Troi to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Sir, I think Tasha's been infected too.

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): She just left my quarters,
PICARD: Counselor, it's not actually an infection.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Yes, sir. It's more like an intoxication. Nut whatever it is, she's got it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Thank you, Counselor. Number One, it seems our Security Chief has the equivalent of a snootful.
DATA: Inquiry, sir. Snootful?
PICARD: Forget it.

[Sickbay]
WESLEY: Hey, Mom, look what I can do.
WESLEY: I've been able to widen and strengthen the beam, just like I told you last night.
CRUSHER: Do me a favor, Wes. There's something happening on this ship. Just to be safe, I'd like you to stay in our quarters until it's solved.
WESLEY: Sure, Mom, sure. Your wish is my command.
CRUSHER: Now, Wes.
WESLEY: Okay, but you could be stunting my emotional growth, you realize that. Why is it so hot in here, anyway?
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Crusher.
CRUSHER: Crusher here.
PICARD: Have you made a test injection yet? We're getting indications that this condition is spreading.
CRUSHER: No test yet, Captain, but very soon.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, another forty-one minutes will see the information from the Tsiolkovsky downloaded to us.
PICARD: Why so slow?
DATA: Slow, sir? The Tsiolkovsky has been eight months in accumulating it.
PICARD: How much danger from that star? Worse case.
DATA: Like a full collapse, sir? Any stellar material it threw this way we could still outrun on half impulse power.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Engineering. Chief Engineer report to the Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Assistant Chief Engineer Shimoda, report to Medical.
WESLEY: Hi, Jim. Was that the Captain sending you to Medical?
SHIMODA: Which would leave no one on duty here. The Chief was just summoned to the Bridge.
WESLEY: What about me? I could call the Chief on the Bridge if anything happened.

[Bridge]
MACDOUGAL: Reporting as ordered, sir.
PICARD: What?
MACDOUGAL: You ordered me to report to the Bridge, sir.
PICARD: I did no such thing. I want you down in the Engine room just in case we need to move out of here.
PICARD (voiceover): Attention all decks, all divisions. Effective immediately, I have handed over control of this vessel to Acting Captain Wesley Crusher.
PICARD: Acting Captain?
WESLEY (voiceover): Thank you, Captain Picard, thank you. And with that order dawns a brave new day for the Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 41209.3. The strange contaminant that led to the deaths of the Tsiolkovsky crew is now aboard the Enterprise and our Engineering section has been commandeered by young Wesley Crusher.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: And henceforth, a dessert course shall precede and follow every meal. Including breakfast.
CREWMAN: Hurray for the acting Captain!
SHIMODA: Never got as far as Sickbay, Wes. I feel too good for that.
SHIMODA: Incredible. How did you do that?
WESLEY: Hooked my model tractor beam into ship's power. Now it's a repulser beam too. Want in?
SHIMODA: Swear to be faithful to you, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, MacDougal, get that boy out of Engineering.
WORF: Sir, I'm getting very strange reports from all decks.
PICARD: Such as?
WORF: Such as the ship's Training Division ordering all officers to attend a lecture on metaphysics.
PICARD: Metaphysics?
DATA: Confirmed, sir. And there was a rather peculiar limerick being delivered by someone in the Shuttlecraft bay. I am not sure I understand it. There was a young lady from Venus whose body was shaped like
PICARD: Captain to Security, come in!
DATA: Did I say something wrong?
WORF: I don't understand their humor either.
SECURITY (voiceover): Yeah, Captain?
PICARD: Where is my security chief! Get me Lieutenant Yar.
SECURITY (voiceover): Keep your britches on.
TASHA (voiceover): Captain Picard.
PICARD: Lieutenant, where are you?
TASHA (voiceover): I'm in my quarters, and I'm pretty busy right at the moment, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: All right, Lieutenant, you just stay right there. Data, please go to Lieutenant Yar and take her down to Sickbay.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Captain to Security, I want all your senior supervisors to report to the Bridge immediately.

[Tasha's Quarters]
DATA: Lieutenant Yar?
TASHA: Here, Data. You wanted me?
DATA: Captain Picard ordered me to escort you to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Did he say when?
DATA: I am sure he meant now. So, you need time to get into uniform.
TASHA: But I got out of uniform for you, Data. Do you know how old I was when I was abandoned?
DATA: Chronological age? No, I am afraid I am not familiar with
TASHA: Five. Five years old, but I survived. I learned how to stay alive, how to avoid the rape gangs. I was fifteen before I escaped.
DATA: I am sorry. I did not know,
TASHA: And what I want now is gentleness. And joy. And love. From you, Data. You are fully functional, aren't you?
DATA: Of course, but
TASHA: How fully?
DATA: In every way, of course. I am programmed in multiple techniques, a broad variety of pleasuring,
TASHA: Oh, you jewel! That's exactly what I hoped.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): What have you learned, Number One?
RIKER: Captain, the ship's engines are cut off from the bridge. The Assistant Chief Engineer pulled out the isolinear optical chips from command. All engines are offline. Wesley has hooked some kind of tractor beam to ship's power and he has it aimed at the door. We can't get past to get at the computer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Can you short out the power?

[Engineering]
MACDOUGAL: Yes, I can. But it's going to take some time.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do it!

[Engineering]
TROI: Bill.
RIKER: Deanna, what?
TROI: So many minds on this ship, all free. Released,
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: I can feel them all. What they want, what they feel. It's a side of humans I've never felt before.
RIKER: Come on, I'm getting you to Sickbay.
TROI: Wouldn't you rather be alone with me? With me in your mind?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The medical records we found say this works almost instantly.
LAFORGE: It's not fair, Doc. I've never seen a rainbow, sunset, sunrise. This is going to help me? Help me see like you?
RIKER: Doctor Crusher?

[Crusher's office]
RIKER: Deanna needs your help.
CRUSHER: The formula from the old Enterprise didn't work.
RIKER: What?
CRUSHER: This water-carbon complex may induce the same symptoms, but somehow it's different. Maybe it's mutated. But I've got to isolate it in order to analyze it,
RIKER: We don't have that kind of time.
CRUSHER: You brought Deanna in.
RIKER: She's infected with
CRUSHER: Then you touched her! Oh, God. And you touched me. Wait! I've got to quarantine you.
RIKER: If I don't get the command computer back online soon, none of this, whatever this is, won't matter. We'll all be dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It is no longer an inconvenient, childish prank. Young Wesley Crusher, admittedly a victim of the Tsiolkovsky infection, is now in control of my starship.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Wes, this is Captain Picard. Do you see me?
WESLEY (screen): Yes sir?
PICARD: You will now return control of this vessel to the Bridge where it belongs. At once.
WESLEY (screen): I'm sorry, sir. Why don't you just tell me what you want done and I'll do it.
PICARD: Because ship captains control their own vessels, young man!
WESLEY (screen): But, sir, you don't do it yourself. You give the orders, but someone else does it. What's wrong with giving me the orders to do it?
WORF: Captain, getting unusual readings now from the dwarf star.
PICARD: Stand by a moment on that. Wesley. Wes. Are you aware that you're acting strangely, that a kind of infection was brought over from the Tsiolkovsky which acts like intoxication?
WESLEY (screen): Are you saying that's why I feel so so hot? So strange?
PICARD: That's a very adult bit of reasoning, Wes,
WESLEY (screen): So you mean I'm drunk! I feel strange, but also good.
PICARD: Because, because you've lost the capacity for self-judgment. Now, alcohol does this, Wesley. But this contaminant we've brought back from the Tsiolkovsky does it even more so.
WESLEY (screen): What would you do if you got your ship back?
PICARD: Oh, it's very important I do, Wesley, because I must immediately lock a tractor beam onto the Tsiolkovsky, then tow it out of,
WESLEY (screen): Tractor beams are my specialty, Skipper! I'll contact you when that's done. Wesley out!
PICARD: Wesley! Wesley!
PICARD: Conn, where are you headed?
WORF: Sir. The star. It's beginning to collapse.
PICARD: What the hell is happening in Engineering?

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Lock on. Lock on Tsiolkovsky.
RIKER: Where's that sonic driver?
MACDOUGAL: It's over there. Okay, let's see if this cuts out his tractor beam power. Oh, come on.

[Crusher's Office]
CRUSHER: Oh no! I must find the answer. I've got to find the answer.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, tractor beam. We just locked onto the Tsiolkovsky.
PICARD: Captain to. Wesley. Wesley Crusher, come in!
PICARD: Ah, Data. At least you're functioning.
DATA: Fully, Captain.
PICARD: Data, intoxication is a human condition. Your mind is different, it's not the same as
DATA: We are more alike than unlike, my dear Captain. I have pores. Humans have pores. I have fingerprints. Humans have fingerprints. My chemical nutrients are like your blood. If you prick me, do I not leak?
PICARD: Doctor,
CRUSHER: Captain, can I see you in your Ready Room? It's a private matter. No, actually it's an urgent one.
PICARD: But. Damn it.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Now, Doctor
CRUSHER: I believe I'm infected myself, Captain.
PICARD: Do you know what the infection is? Come on, quickly.
CRUSHER: Sorry. It is definitely like alcohol intoxication. The same lack of good judgment, For example, right now I find you extremely, extremely, Of course we haven't time for that sort of thing,
PICARD: What sort of thing?
CRUSHER: Oh God, would I love to show you.
PICARD: Doctor, there must be a cure. Some formula, similar to the old one,
CRUSHER: Damn it, damn it, Captain. My dear Captain.
CRUSHER: You owe me something. You do realize that, don't you? I'm a woman. I haven't the comfort of a husband. A man.
PICARD: Not now, Doctor. Please.

[Bridge]
WORF: Bridge to Riker, Urgent.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Riker here.
WORF (voiceover): Sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, regret to inform you that the Captain appears to be infected. And Data.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. I'm on my way. You'll have to handle this.
MACDOUGAL: Are you saying you're going to handle that?

[Bridge]
WORF: What we're seeing, sir, is a huge chunk of the star's surface blown away, heading for us.
PICARD: Take us
RIKER: Are you alright, sir?
PICARD: Worf, you know what to do. Take us er
RIKER: Take us out of here.
PICARD: Right.
WORF: Controls are still offline, sir.
PICARD: Override.
WORF: Same result, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Wes, come in please.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Wesley Crusher, this is Riker. Come in.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): This is urgent. Come in, please.
RIKER (voiceover): Engineering, urgent. We must have ship's power,
MACDOUGAL: Those are control chips! Bridge from Engineering.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The star is still collapsing. We're directly in the path of

[Engineering]
MACDOUGAL: I can't help you, Bridge! Someone here has yanked out all the control chips.
WESLEY: It was an adult who did it!

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, I estimate fourteen minutes until that mass gets here.
MACDOUGAL (voiceover): No way, sir. I cannot replace these chips in fourteen minutes. Two hours, three

[Engineering]
MACDOUGAL: Maybe.
WESLEY: Data could assemble them back faster.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What, what's that? What's that, Wesley?

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Well, they're just simple isolinear chips, sir, to Data anyway. He can shuffle them like cards.
RIKER: Come on, Data, hurry. Ship's log, First Officer Riker. Enterprise will be destroyed unless it can be moved out of the path of the star material hurtling toward us. Our only hope is for Lieutenant Commander Data, in the time we have left, to regain his senses and reconnect engine power to the Bridge.

[Engineering]
DATA: Nice to see you, Wesley.
WESLEY: Hi, Mister Data.
RIKER: No time for courtesy. Get the damned control chips back in place, in the correct order. Now!
WESLEY: It's like a game. How fast can you do it?
DATA: Ah, a game!
WESLEY: I think I can switch this to main viewer, sir,
RIKER: Data, we've got eight or nine minutes at most. Can you finish by then?
DATA: No, this will take slightly more time than we have, sir.
RIKER: Damn it, no. I can't afford to get this.

[Crusher's Office]
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Yes, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: You will address me as Captain.
CRUSHER: Captain? Well then, my dear Captain, you will address me as Chief Medical Officer or Doctor.
PICARD: I will? That's true. I started off calling you Beverly, and of course, naturally, you. I'm still not thinking straight.
CRUSHER: Likewise. Where the hell was I headed?
PICARD: If that's something you were going to test,
CRUSHER: Yes, on Geordi. Come here.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: See how I reversed the fields on this, Commander? I made it into a repulser beam.
DATA: If we just had one minute more, sir,
WESLEY: If this were a hundred times more powerful than it is. Why not try it with the real thing? Why not reverse fields on this, Ma'am? If we just need an extra minute,
MACDOUGAL: It would take weeks of laying out new circuits.
WESLEY: Why not just see it in your head? Come off the main lead, split off at the force activator, then, then. If I could just think straight about this,

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I made this a broader based remedy. I hope. But it's still close to the formula from the old Enterprise records.
PICARD: Decades ago, light years away,
CRUSHER: But almost exactly the same conditions as here.
LAFORGE: Wow! What was in that, Doctor? My head's beginning to clear,
CRUSHER: Come here. Here, take this to Engineering. I'll make up more hypos for the others.
PICARD: Okay, Bev.

[Engineering]
RIKER: We're not going to make it, Captain. If we had just a minute or so.
WESLEY: Then reversing power leads, back through the force activator. Repulser beam hard against Tsiolkovsky. Don't you see? It's giving us a push off. The extra time we need.
RIKER: We're pushing away.
RIKER: Bridge, engage engines!

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain , something seemed to move us aside at the last minute.
WORF: Do we owe our thanks to Commander Data, sir?
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, and Wesley may have given us a few seconds, too.
WORF: Did he say Wesley? The boy?
CRUSHER: He said Wesley.

[Engineering]
RIKER: It's only fair to mention Wesley in a log entry, sir.
PICARD: Fair's fair. And let's credit his science teacher, too.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Congratulations, sir.
PICARD: To many people.
TASHA: Data. I'm only going to tell you this just once. It never happened.
PICARD: I put it to you all. I think we shall end up with a fine crew, if we avoid temptation. So, Number One, let's go to our next job.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Helm, prepare for warp three. Heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven.
LAFORGE: Warp three, heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven, sir.
RIKER: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41235.25. Our location, planet Ligon Two, source of a rare vaccine needed on Federation planet Styris Four. Starfleet has instructed me to engage in a friendly visit and open treaty negotiations to acquire this medicinal substance.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Standard orbit, sir.
RIKER: Lieutenant Yar is calling from Cargo Bay One, sir. Standing by to beam Ligonian welcoming party aboard.
PICARD: On our way. You have the helm, Mister Data.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Cargo One. This should be an interesting experience.
RIKER: Agreed. Not only are they closely humanoid, but their history has remarkable similarities to ours.
TROI: A highly structured society. and they're exceedingly proud.

[Cargo Bay One]
TASHA: They've insisted on using their own transporter device, sir.
PICARD: It's their way, Lieutenant. Do they have our coordinates?
TASHA: They have, sir, precisely, and they're standing by for your signal.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard aboard the Starfleet vessel Enterprise. Please do us the honor of visiting our vessel.
LUTAN: I am Lutan.
PICARD: Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard. These are my officers. My second in command, Commander William Riker. Ship's Counselor, Deanna Troi. And my Security Officer, Lieutenant Natasha Yar.
LUTAN: A woman? Your Chief of Security?
PICARD: Yes, Lutan, that is her expertise.
LUTAN: I am honored to meet your officers. This is my Secondary, Hagon. A sample of the vaccine.
TASHA: My duty, Lutan. I'm sorry, but I'm required to
HAGON: Out of my way, woman.
LUTAN: How interesting. May we prove as surprising to you.
TROI: If I may suggest, sir, no apology. In their view, it would weaken us.
TASHA: Nothing concealed, Captain. Would you care to accept it?
LUTAN: Unless you care to examine it further.
PICARD: Absolutely not. This vaccine sample is a gift of life and we are honored at receiving it. Would you do us the additional honor of now letting us entertain you?
LUTAN: Yes, yes. Please prepare it. We shall join you shortly.
HAGON: I ask forgiveness.
LUTAN: They are strange alien beings. You bear no fault.
HAGON: But the female?
LUTAN: May be exactly what I have needed.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Lutan, we are aware of many of your planet's achievements, and its unique similarity to an ancient Earth culture we all admire. On behalf of the Federation, therefore, I would like to present this token of our gratitude and friendship. From China's Sung Dynasty, Fourteenth Century.
DATA: Thirteenth Century, sir.
PICARD: Ah, yes, indeed.
LUTAN: A most thoughtful gift. We are pleased. We of Ligon have been apprehensive about strangers. We are not technologically advanced as you, yet we possess something you do not. A vaccine which has been found to be an effective antidote to your dreaded Anchilles fever. If you respect our customs and if we see that respect, we will be friends. And we will make the antidote available to all who need it.
PICARD: If you require respect from us, I am sure that you will see it.
LUTAN: Surrounded by such friendship, I feel no need for my guards. I will return shortly. Prepare to transport me then.
PICARD: If there is something else, any further courtesy?
LUTAN: Would it possible to see one of your wondrous holodecks? We have heard how they are used to train your officers.
PICARD: And used for many other things too. Commander Riker, perhaps you and Counselor Troi will demonstrate.
LUTAN: Would it be possible for Lieutenant Yar to do so, Captain? Some demonstration of defense training?
RIKER: We've noticed you're intrigued with her having security responsibilities. But these things are not at all unusual with us.
HAGON: With us, it is the duty of women only to own the land, and the duty of men to protect and rule it.
TROI: Much the same has happened in human history too.
TASHA: I'd like to do it, sir. As a sign of respect, perhaps.
PICARD: Very well.
TASHA: This way, please.

[Holodeck]
TASHA: Aikido one. It won't move until my actions activate it.
LUTAN: You can create people? Without a soul?
TASHA: It's not a real person, Lutan. It has no life. Everything it does is controlled by computer. Who am I? Do you hear me?
TASHA: But it will feel real when it hits you.
HAGON: A force like that cannot possibly come from an image, Lutan.
LUTAN: Then you will show me, Hagon.
LUTAN: Thank you, Lieutenant. How very enlightening.
TASHA: Aikido, vanish. I could create two, even three, but really one is enough. As you fight with it, it learns, and before long it knows exactly how to defeat you.
LUTAN: Even the extraordinary Lieutenant Yar?
TASHA: It forces us to keep improving.
LUTAN: Your skill impresses me. I like you.

[Cargo Bay One]
LUTAN: Farewell, my new friends of the noble Enterprise.
PICARD: Understanding has made friends of many different people. We've had a good beginning, Lutan.
LUTAN: May I also extend a personal farewell to Lieutenant Yar? In your Federation terms.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Red alert.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up, photon torpedoes activated, sir.
PICARD: What comm. contact have we had with them?
DATA: With their orbital control station, sir.
PICARD: Make contact there and on all hailing frequencies. This is the Enterprise to Lutan and the Ligonian government. You have committed an unfriendly act. We insist that you reply immediately.
RIKER: Photon torpedoes ready, sir.
PICARD: Set them for a display blast a thousand meters short of the planet's surface.
RIKER: Set.
PICARD: Fire.
RIKER: Do we know the source of their transporter beam?
LAFORGE: Our own transporter people have tried to trace it, sir, but to no effect.
DATA: It reads similar to early Starfleet efforts but uses the Heglenian shift to convert matter and energy in different. Which is actually not important at this time.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise with a message to Lutan, whom I have so far acknowledged as a friend. But you have now committed what our laws regard as an attack upon us. Since you have visited our vessel, you most certainly know the power of it. We insist that you reply to this message. Opinion, Counselor. Will they injure Lieutenant Yar?
TROI: I believe not, sir. They seem mainly curious. In the case of Lutan, however, I did feel other needs.
RIKER: What kind of needs?
TROI: Some sexual attraction from all the males. Lieutenant Yar is physically very attractive. But with Lutan I felt something else. Something more like avarice or ambition.
PICARD: Other comments?
DATA: If I may, sir. One of the things about them in the briefing studies was their respect for patience.
RIKER: Strongly emphasized. And you can see it in the precise, ritualistic way they do things. I'm worried about Lieutenant Yar too, sir, but maybe we should sit and wait them out. Stardate 41235.32. I am concerned. Over a full day of waiting with no response from Lutan. We are now testing whether they are aware of our sensors probing them. So far, we believe we have pinpointed Lutan's government compound.

[Ready Room]
CRUSHER: The vaccine, sir.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The vaccine. I'm a physician, I've seen death, but not on the scale this could mean.
PICARD: You were testing if you can replicate the vaccine.
CRUSHER: And we can't. The sample works fine when used as an injection, but it becomes unstable when we try to replicate it. You must get the vaccine from the planet, Captain. As much as you can. Immediately.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Doctor.
CRUSHER: You've never had to watch a patient die from this disease.
PICARD: That's true. But I have seen my share of death.
CRUSHER: Damn. Where are the calluses we doctors are supposed to grow over our feelings?
PICARD: Perhaps the good ones never get them.
CRUSHER: May I speak about my son, Wesley?
PICARD: What? Oh, yes. Alright.
CRUSHER: He seems quite interested in starship operations. And speaking as a mother, of course, he seems quite knowledgeable.
PICARD: Well, yes, speaking as a mother.
CRUSHER: He's on the turbolift. You'll remember you ordered him to stay off of the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Wesley?
WESLEY: I haven't stepped one foot on your Bridge, Captain.
RIKER: It's all right, sir, I'll see that he leaves immediately.
PICARD: No.
RIKER: No?
PICARD: Why don't you sit at Ops next to Lieutenant La Forge.
WESLEY: Sir?
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: Is the whole ship deaf?! Sit down over there, young man. Temporarily.
TROI: Captain, we have more information from the briefing studies on Ligon.
PICARD: Excuse me. Doctor Crusher, some of this may interest you. Lets hear the analysis.
DATA: It is a highly structured society in which people live by strict codes of honor. For example, what Lutan did is similar to what certain American Indians once did called counting coup. That's from an obscure language called French. Counting coup
PICARD: Mister Data, the French language for centuries on Earth represented civilization.
DATA: Indeed? But surely, sir
RIKER: I suggest you drop it, Mister Data.
DATA: Yes, sir. Counting coup could be as simple as touching an enemy with a stick in battle, or taking something from him and escaping. It was considered extremely heroic.
RIKER: And under these circumstances Lutan considers himself heroic, risking literally everything in the face of our superior power.
TROI: And it fits Lutan's personality profile as well. He has an abnormally high need for achievement. Self image to him is a function of what he thinks he's achieved. Those who set their standards too high can kill to meet them.
CRUSHER: Why Tasha?
TROI: As a Starfleet Security Officer, she may have represented his riskiest prize.
DATA: Transmission from the planet surface, sir, Main viewer on.
PICARD: Well, Lutan, what do you want?
LUTAN (screen): You will display your image, please.
PICARD: What is required is an image of Lieutenant Yar, well and
LUTAN (screen): Are you making demands, Captain?
TROI: Sir. According to the Ligon Code of Honor, Lutan has done what he set out to do, achieve recognition for being daring and bold.
RIKER: We've studied this in some depth now, sir. The proper thing for you to do now is to ask to get Tasha back.
PICARD: Ask for her?
DATA: Politely, Captain.
PICARD: And now, Lutan, you have boldly taken Lieutenant Yar from us, and we ask that you now please return her.
LUTAN (screen): Then come visit us, Captain, and we will return her to you.
TROI: Commander.
RIKER: Commander? That's quite formal.
TROI: So is this request, sir. We believe it would be preferable if the Captain led this away party.
DATA: Agreed, sir. Their customs concerning guests make it much preferable.
RIKER: And I'm very much against that idea. Lutan is clearly a liar, and devious. Counselor Troi has admitted she believes he's capable of killing. It is my duty to keep the Captain from danger, sir.
DATA: Except that Ligonian custom makes it clear that a visiting leader becomes an honored guest. Not us, not second in command, him.
TROI: And the custom requires that Lutan should die rather than violate that.
RIKER: Yes, it seems reasonable put that way. But I warn you, if you get hurt, I'll put you on report, Captain.

[Centerplace]
LUTAN: Welcome to my Centerplace, Captain Picard. Consider yourselves my honored guests.
YAREENA: Every hospitality will be accorded you.
LUTAN: This is my First One, Yareena.
PICARD: Lutan is a fortunate man. You've met Counselor Troi.
LUTAN: Yes. As on your vessel, you have only to name whatever courtesy we can provide.
PICARD: Then, sir, the courtesy of seeing Lieutenant Yar.
LUTAN: Lieutenant Yar will be returned to you tonight at a banquet I have arranged in your honor.
PICARD: I'd like to see her now.
LUTAN: Bring Lieutenant Yar. I find it odd, Captain, that a man of your experience has such difficulty in understanding ordinary politeness.
PICARD: Such as the politeness of saying please before abducting someone?
LUTAN: The expression please is used only when requesting the person back.
PICARD: Yours is a different world.
LUTAN: With clear and simple ways deeply rooted in our culture. If you are willing to ask for Lieutenant Yar's return tonight in front of all, honor will be satisfied.
TROI: One can see the importance of honor here.
LUTAN: Honor is everything.
PICARD: Have you been treated well, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Fine, Captain but they're showing some signs of wear.
YAREENA: There isn't any need to be concerned, Captain. She's being well cared for.
PICARD: My ship's company and I are certain of your gentle wisdom in that.
LUTAN: For a moment I thought I heard a threat implied. But that would be foolishness.
PICARD: Something to be carefully avoided. I agree.
LUTAN: The festivities for her return to you are in preparation. Shall we retire till then?
PICARD: Until tonight, Lutan.
PICARD: Lutan, you have granted us hospitality and the safety of your Centerplace. The gifts you give us are rare and precious. We thank you. And now, according with the customs of your ancestors, whom we honor and respect, I am here in peace to ask for the return of Lieutenant Yar.
LUTAN: Well spoken. There are those among my equals in this gathering who were wary of my approaching the Federation. I am proud to have taken this first step towards a treaty, and proud that we have something of great value to offer you, a priceless life-giving vaccine. The abduction I have done according to our custom, for all to see. Your conduct in this matter has been beyond exemplary, Captain Picard, but now that the moment has come, I find I cannot part with her.
PICARD: You speak of a code of honor, but what you are saying now, according to our customs, is called an act of war.
LUTAN: This is not an act of war, but of love. I want Lieutenant Yar to become my First One.
YAREENA: I challenge your right of supercedence!
HAGON: No woman has challenged supercedence for over two hundred years!
YAREENA: The right is mine and I will have it! Natasha Yar, I challenge you. A struggle to the death.
PICARD: No! The challenge is unequivocally refused!
LUTAN: Then you shall have no treaty, no vaccine, and no Lieutenant Yar! Ship's log, First Officer Riker reporting. We have been informed of the challenge to Lieutenant Yar, and are maintaining combat readiness round the clock. We are probing Lutan's compound deeply with our sensors now, still unnoticed.

[Tasha's room]
TASHA: Captain. Deanna.
PICARD: Did you have any idea, Lieutenant, that Lutan was suddenly going to announce that he wanted you for his First One?
TASHA: No, sir.
PICARD: Tell me what you know about this?
TASHA: Nothing, sir.
TROI: But it was a thrill. Lutan is such, such a basic male image and having him say he wants you
TASHA: Yes, of course it made me feel good when he. Troi, I'm your friend and you tricked me.
TROI: Only so you'd think about it, completely and clearly.
PICARD: We're all being manipulated, Lieutenant, myself most of all.
TROI: How simple all this would be without the Prime Directive.
PICARD: That thought had passed through my mind, Counselor.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What is this message from Starbase Fourteen?
CRUSHER: It's showing the infection rates, percentage illness increases. The plague on Styris Four has flared up out of control.
LAFORGE: They're estimating deaths in the millions, sir.
RIKER: Captain Picard, come in.

[Tasha's room]
TASHA: I know I can win. Not that I'd take her life, of course, but I'd be glad to embarrass her. The idea of accusing me of taking
TROI: The plague?
PICARD: If anything, even worse than we'd heard.
TASHA: Which means they desperately need the vaccine, sir. And I know I can win this challenge.
PICARD: You have nothing to prove anything here, Lieutenant.
TROI: But the vaccine is important in this case, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, you're the last person I'd expect to argue in favor of accepting the challenge.
TROI: Betazoid blood is also practical, Captain. The odds are very good she'd defeat Lutan's wife easily and you would win all the bargaining points you need.
PICARD: The odds are.
TROI: You have pointed out yourself we are all at risk every day of every mission.
PICARD: I want some explanations from Lutan.

[Centerplace]
HAGON: Lutan, why are you so obsessed with this Lieutenant Yar? Surely Yareena is more desirable? Certainly she can offer you much more. She owns many things, many lands.
PICARD: It's a great pity you began by abducting my Security Officer, Lutan, because I should tell you I do admire the hospitality you offer here.
LUTAN: I am in the grip of forces you do not understand.
PICARD: Some of it I do understand. She is a rather lovely female.
LUTAN: You surprise me, Captain. What do you know of needs and feelings?
PICARD: Nothing. Well, almost nothing in my position of ship's Captain.
HAGON: I see.
PICARD: But it puzzles me. If you feel that way for Tasha, why have you challenged her to a fight to the death?
LUTAN: Not I, Yareena. I am merely a spectator.
PICARD: Ah, but you are also a man of great importance and wealth.
HAGON: Great importance, perhaps, but he does
PICARD: Ah, I see. You, too, understand the proper value of women.
LUTAN: We understand they are highly pleasant things, but after all, unimportant. Except for the land they own.
PICARD: You are a truly clever person, Lutan. You stand to lose nothing, either way the challenge goes.
LUTAN: A code of honor protects one, Captain, like a magic cloak.
PICARD: I will order Lieutenant Yar to fight. And may your cloak bring you all you deserve.

[Geordi's Quarters]
LAFORGE: Come in.
DATA: Why that razor, my friend? Why not the one I adjusted to perfect efficiency?
LAFORGE: Shaving is a human art form, Data. Technological perfection can shave too close.
DATA: Puzzling. How can anything be too efficient?
LAFORGE: Thousands of things are too efficient, Data, at least for humans.
DATA: We always come back to the human equation.
LAFORGE: Exactly. Have you continued to work on it?
DATA: Constantly, my friend. Particularly the humor. A man goes to a store to buy some kidneys.
LAFORGE: Oh, no.
DATA: He says to the shopkeeper, I'd like a pound of kiddillies, please. The shopkeeper says to him, You mean kidneys, don't you? The man says, I said kiddillies, diddle I?
LAFORGE: It's too old. And you didn't tell it very well.
DATA: How do you know when something is funny?
LAFORGE: It's not explainable. You just do.
DATA: Perhaps it is you, Geordi. Includling the kiddillies, I've learned six hundred sixty two jokes, and you have not
LAFORGE: Includling the kiddillies! Now, see, that's funny.
DATA: It was not meant as a joke. The tongue slipped.
LAFORGE: Oh, boy.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Commander Data, Lieutenant La Forge. Report to the Transporter Room for away party duty.

[Centerplace]
RIKER (voiceover): First officer to Captain. Ready with the away personnel.
PICARD: Lock in on this location.
CHIEF (voiceover): Transporter locked in, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD: You've both seen the message about the plague?
LAFORGE: And how badly the vaccine is needed. Yes, sir.
PICARD: We need to know as much as possible about Ligonian armaments. Data, especially important is an analysis of their combat capabilities. Geordi, concentrate on their cutting edges, wherever applicable, durability, composition, weaknesses of material.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: From any particular point of view, sir?
PICARD: From the perspective of Lieutenant Yar using them in combat with Lutan's wife.
DATA: Most interesting. Could this be human joke number six hundred sixty three?
LAFORGE: Negative, Data. That's a Captain's order.
DATA: Which makes it important to know which of these weapons are to be used.
PICARD: And that won't be known until combat begins. You're right, Data. It does sound like a joke. With the power of the Enterprise, we could overwhelm this place easily, just take what we want.
DATA: I may not understand human humor, sir, but I am a Starfleet Academy graduate.
PICARD: Which means, of course
DATA: understanding the Prime Directive, sir.
PICARD: That is, ironically, what this is about. By our standards, the customs here, their code of honor, is the same kind of pompous, strutting charades that endangered our own species a few centuries ago. We evolved out of it because no one else imposed their own. I'm sorry, this is becoming a speech.
TROI: You're the Captain, sir. You're entitled.
PICARD: Not entitled to ramble on about something everyone knows. Carry on. Ship's log, Commander William Riker reporting. Continuing our appraisal of Ligonian technology. The Captain has made it clear he wants Lieutenant Yar beamed immediately to safety if her life should become endangered, and I fervently hope the rules of that contest make it possible.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Riker to Transporter Chief. Do we have our people on sensors yet?
CHIEF (voiceover): Their general area, sir. Visual on screen now. As you see, we're still doing some fine tuning.

[Tasha's room]
YAREENA: I've agreed to this meeting, but I see no point to it. You've accepted the challenge and there is nothing further to say.
TASHA: I think you should know that there is no physical training anywhere that matches Starfleet, especially its security people.
YAREENA: And you should know that even though these contests are rare, we have a tradition of making ourselves capable of them.
TASHA: Yareena, my acceptance had nothing to do with Lutan.
YAREENA: It has everything to do with Lutan. Lutan wants you to be his First One.
TASHA: Impossible, Yareena. I am a career Starfleet officer.
YAREENA: How could you not love him? Every woman loves him.
TASHA: I fight for the vaccine, That's the truth.
YAREENA: The truth is I will kill you if I can. And believe me, I can. There is nothing else to say.
TASHA: In my world, it's a greater honor to refuse
YAREENA: You are on our world!

[Picard's room]
TROI: Captain, I'm your Counselor. You brought me with you to Ligon to be of help.
PICARD: Then help me, please. What is a way out of this?
TROI: With the vaccine? None.
LAFORGE: The weapons in that room, Captain, are surprisingly flexible, durable, and deadly.
DATA: And light, as if they were made for women to use.
LAFORGE: Some of them still have traces of blood and poison.
PICARD: Poison?
LAFORGE: Alkaloid base. Lethal.
PICARD: What about those lengths of metal in the yard outside?
DATA: Uncertain, sir. However, joined together they would make a rectangle or square enclosing one hundred twenty one square meters. If put end to end vertically, they would make a pole forty four meters high, or two of twenty two.
PICARD: Thank you, Data.
DATA: You're welcome, sir.
TASHA: She won't budge. She loves him, without reservation. And she thinks I love him too.
DATA: Most interesting. Do you?
TASHA: Of course I don't, Data. As Troi pointed out to me, I'm attracted to him but that is entirely different.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Riker. We're alone.
RIKER (voiceover): We're fine tuned enough to see your hosts gathering in the open area outside, sir. Three of them are heading for your location.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Lieutenant, do you still feel that you want to go through with this challenge? Do you judge your condition good?
TASHA: I judge it excellent, sir.
HAGON: Your weapons, Lieutenant Yar. You may choose your size.
LAFORGE: Tasha, don't touch the spines. They're poisoned. If you're not careful, you could kill yourself.
TASHA: These I understand. First Officer's log, supplemental. Captain Picard, faced with a critical need for a vaccine produced on this planet, has permitted Lieutenant Natasha Yar to engage in a fight to the death. I have yet to understand his reasoning or his plan.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Care to lend a hand? Sit at Ops.

[Transporter Room]
DATA: Was I seen leaving?
CHIEF: They've got eyes only for the program.
DATA: Captain Picard wanted no risk of our communications being overheard. You are to proceed now as he indicated.
CRUSHER: Captain's orders too.
RIKER: Does the Captain understand what you and Geordi reported about those weapons? They're razor sharp, split-second lethal.
DATA: I'm here to brief you on what he plans.

[Centerplace]
TASHA: Any last minute instructions, sir?
PICARD: Stay alive. We'll hope to do the rest.
HAGON: I speak for Lutan. The rules are known. Let combat continue until there is a victor. It will not be interrupted.
LUTAN: Combatants, hold your positions. Return the weapon.
HAGON: Careful, Yareena.

[Transporter Room]
RIKER: Move!
TASHA: We're too late. She's growing cold.
CRUSHER: Sorry, that clashes with my instructions.
TASHA: Oh no. No.

[Centerplace]
PICARD: Exactly what do you find unfair, Lutan? They fought to the death. You saw the final blow. You know the effects of your poison.
LUTAN: But what of your Lieutenant Yar? She is to become my First One now.
PICARD: I certainly won't stop her, if she cares to claim that honor.
HAGON: Remember, you now have all Yareena's lands and wealth now.
LUTAN: At least all has not been lost.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER (voiceover): Since you've fulfilled your agreement, Captain, can we now beam the vaccine aboard?
LUTAN: Ah, yes, of course.
PICARD: No problem, Number One. Send down a medical team.
RIKER (voiceover): And to complete our business here, we are locked onto you.
PICARD: Five to beam up. Energize. First Officer's log, Stardate 41235.6. I am returning the conn to Captain Picard as we begin loading the vaccine supply aboard. Shortly, we hope to signal mission complete.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Welcome back, Captain. You're wanted in the lounge.
PICARD: This way, gentlemen.

[Observation Lounge]
LUTAN: She is not dead! There was no death combat. You violated our agreement. There will be no treaty, no vaccine!
PICARD: The challenge was carried out. She died, Lutan.
LUTAN: There was no challenge! She lives!
CRUSHER: I am a physician and saw her die. If you doubt this poison, why don't you test it on yourself?
PICARD: Lutan, we can provide you with records of her death and how Doctor Crusher brought her back.
YAREENA: And at the instant of death, Lutan, a mating agreement dissolves.
LUTAN: But this is witchcraft, Yareena. To discard a mate in this manner
YAREENA: Is less painful than the one you selected for me.
LUTAN: Yareena, no.
YAREENA: Even as I battled, Hagon, I heard you calling out for me.
HAGON: Yareena, be my First One.
YAREENA: All my land and all my goods, all I have is yours to rule.
TASHA: How so sad for you. You've lost everything.
LUTAN: I have my honor.
TASHA: It's such a waste.
YAREENA: Do you want him?
TASHA: No. There would be complications.
YAREENA: Then I will have you as my Number Two. Take your place accordingly.
HAGON: Well, as you see, Captain, you may excel in technology, but not in civilized behavior.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What? Wesley.
RIKER: Young Wesley, he'd been manning that station for me. I forgot.
PICARD: Well, thanks again for manning one of our bridge stations, Wesley. We'll see that you have another chance.
WESLEY: Yes sir.
PICARD: So what's the delay, Number One? Why aren't we warping out of here?
RIKER: Set course for Styris Four, warp three.
LAFORGE: Course laid in for Styris Four, sir.
RIKER: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 41294.5. Our destination, the class M Beta Cassius planet known simply as Haven. It is a world so renowned for its peaceful beauty that some believe it to have mystical healing powers. We will rest and relax, all too briefly, I fear

[Bridge]
PICARD: Such a beautiful world. Legends say it has been known to mend souls and heal broken hearts.
DATA: Legends which are totally unsupported by fact, Captain.
PICARD: Legends like that are the spice of the universe, Mister Data, because they have a way of sometimes coming true.

[Riker's quarters]
TASHA (voiceover): Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker, your presence is requested in Transporter room one.
RIKER: Sorry ladies. Duty calls.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: You needed me, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Yes, sir. There's an object of some kind beaming in from Haven.
RIKER: What is it?
TASHA: We're not sure.
CHIEF: Surface Station approval coming in now, Lieutenant.
TASHA: All right, let's bring it in.
RIKER: Odd looking.
TROI: What's going on?
FACE: I hold a message for Deanna Troi. Lwaxana Troi and the honorable Miller family will soon arrive. The momentous day is close at hand. Rejoice.
TROI: No. No.
RIKER: What's going on?
TASHA: Jewels. Look at these jewels.
TROI: They're bonding gifts. What you would call wedding presents.
RIKER: Who's getting married?
TROI: I am.

[Ready room]
TROI: I was certain it would never happen, Captain. The years I'd spend on this mission, the distance it has taken me away from home. As you must have heard, genetic bonding is a Betazoid tradition. Steven Miller was my father's closest friend.
RIKER: Your father was human, Deanna. The Millers are human
PICARD: Will you and your husband be staying with the ship, Counselor?
TROI: No, sir.
PICARD: Then I'll just say congratulations for now, Deanna. You'll excuse me?
TROI: Bill, more than anything else in the world, anything, you want to be a starship captain. True?
RIKER: That's not all I want, Deanna.
TROI: I can feel that. I know you care, within those limits. Did you hear what I said?
RIKER: Every word. This whole thing is still bizarre. I'm sorry.
TROI: Come dance at my wedding.
RIKER: I'll try.
DATA: A message from planet Haven, Counselor. They wish to beam the Miller wedding party aboard.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. Welcome aboard.
STEVEN: Quite some starship you have here, Captain. Look forward to this visit.
VICTORIA: You couldn't be
TROI: I'm Deanna.
VICTORIA: Deanna darling! You probably don't even remember me.
STEVEN: Wyatt was absolutely right. She is a beauty.
WYATT: I'm Wyatt.
VICTORIA: Isn't this simply beautiful? I knew romance was still alive, somewhere.
WYATT: I'd like you to have this. It's a Chameleon Rose. It changes color with the mood of its owner.
TROI: It's wonderful. Thank you. When is my mother arriving?
WYATT: Your mother is still down on the planet, Deanna.
TROI: Why?
WYATT: Er, is there a place for my parents to rest, Captain?
STEVEN: Well, we're not really tired, son. Besides, I'd like to see some of the ship.
VICTORIA: Steven, you know full well Lwaxana Troi isn't about to beam on aboard until we leave. So?
PICARD: You can see your quarters now, if you like. Will you show the Millers to their accommodations, please, and I shall join you later.
CHIEF: Two more are ready to beam in, sir.
PICARD: So be it. Wyatt seems a fine young man.
TROI: Yes, he does. But I'm not what he expected.
PICARD: I don't understand.
TROI: Neither do I, but I'm definitely a surprise of some sort to him. I should warn you, sir. My mother is a little eccentric.
LWAXANA: Where is everyone? Oh, I hate that.
TROI: Hello, Mother
LWAXANA (voiceover): Don't say it, think it. Use your mind, not your mouth.
TROI: Hello Mother.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Deanna, shame. What has this life done to you?
LWAXANA: No, don't tell me. You're the Captain.
PICARD: Of course. Your daughter has explained your telepathic ability.
LWAXANA: That wasn't telepathy, it was just common sense. Who else would they send to greet me but the Captain? You may carry my luggage.
TROI: Mother!
PICARD: No, no, that's quite all right. I'm indebted to your mother for the fine Counselor she
PICARD: This way.

[Corridor]
TROI: Mother, it's quite inappropriate to ask the captain to
LWAXANA: Yes, you do seem to be having difficulty. A man your age must work to keep himself in shape.
TROI: Mother, I'm not going another step like this. A starship has its customs, just as we do. If you're my mother's valet, then please valet!
PICARD: Oh, please don't let me keep up from doing your duty.
LWAXANA: I apologize for her behavior. Do you realize you've embarrassed your Captain?
PICARD: Oh, no.
LWAXANA: Anything to avoid a quarrel on this occasion. It's amazing how that accent of yours reminds me of your father.
TROI: Your last valet tried so hard to rid me of it. Whatever happened to Mister Xelo?
LWAXANA: I was forced to terminate his employment. Xelo was strongly attracted to me. His thoughts became truly pornographic.

[Turbolift]
LWAXANA: Of course, the thoughts of Wyatt's father toward me were almost as vulgar, but he really doesn't have Xelo's
PICARD: Passenger accommodation.
LWAXANA: He doesn't really have Xelo's imagination.
TROI: Mother.
LWAXANA: Between him and that woman's inane chatter, it's a wonder I made it here at all. How do you like the Millers, Captain?
PICARD: I'm sure I find them perfectly pleasant
LWAXANA: As for me, I find it shocking how they've changed in the years since my husband and I knew them. Of course, it's probably because I've grown beyond them. You realize of course that with Betazoids, our ability to read the thoughts of others does see us grow much faster than the typical plodding human who
TROI (voiceover): Mother, that's enough!
LWAXANA (voiceover): So, you're not totally out of practice. Good. Very good.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
PICARD: We hope you find the room comfortable.
LWAXANA: Yes, the room is adequate. Small, but adequate. You will of course adjust the temperature to a civilized level?
PICARD: I'll see what I can do. And now, if you will excuse me, I'm sure the two of you have a lot to talk about.
LWAXANA: Yes, Captain. You may go.
LWAXANA (voiceover): You've been slack, little one. Allowed your mental powers to rust.
TROI (voiceover): Only to avoid confusion, mother. Humans constantly think one thing and say another.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Yes, they do, don't they. Poor dears. Our style of complete honesty frightens them.
TROI: On that subject Mother, there is such a thing as too much honesty with humans.
LWAXANA (voiceover): If they'd only say what they think instead of hiding it. An entire shipload of such inconsistency could drive one insane.
LWAXANA: Darling, I'm terribly sorry about what happened here. Truly I am. Steven Miller tracked me down and reminded me of the vows we had made.
TROI: Mother, I'm having some trouble believing in those vows as once I did.
LWAXANA: Deanna.
TROI: But I'll honor them, of course. I'm a Betazoid.
LWAXANA: You may find Wyatt an unusual person. I've sensed remarkable depths in him.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Message coming in from Haven, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
VALEDA (screen): I'm Valeda Innis, First Electorine of Haven. Captain Picard?
PICARD: Greetings, Electorine. I'm Picard.
VALEDA (screen): Your presence honors us, and your timing is fortuitous, Captain.
PICARD: In what way?
VALEDA (screen): An incoming vessel has bypassed our stargate, violating our law. It has refused any attempt at communication.
PICARD: Are you saying you believe it to be hostile?
VALEDA (screen): Failure to communicate is inherently hostile. We have no defensive capabilities here and our treaty with the Federation specifies your obligations in that matter.
PICARD: Agreed. But let's hope it doesn't become a defense matter.
VALEDA (screen): Of course, Captain, but I'm very happy we have you here.

[Wyatt's quarters]
WYATT: Come in.
TROI: I wanted to apologize for my mother's behavior.
WYATT: Your mother's honest. I respect that.
TROI: Yes, but she never lets up.
WYATT: I'll admit, her honesty is a bit persistent.
TROI: I never heard it described better. But it is a Betazoid trait. I'll try to be only half as annoying.
WYATT: Let's see, what can I tell you about myself? I'm a medical doctor, for whatever that's worth.
TROI: Doctor?
WYATT: If you're picking up my thoughts, you'd know. You can do that, can't you?
TROI: Sometimes. This must be what Mother felt about you. I believe we could read each other eventually.
WYATT: Can I take that as a compliment?
TROI: Absolutely. I only ever felt this, well, with someone who's on this ship.
WYATT: Oh? Do I have competition?
TROI: No. What he wants most is to captain a starship.
WYATT: What I want is to cure people.
TROI: Well, I'm a practicing psychologist. Maybe we can work in concert. We are going to be together a long time.
WYATT: Yes. That is the point of marriage, I suppose.
TROI: I really thought you'd tell me you were an artist. I just felt your mind very much on these. They are your work, aren't they?
WYATT: I can see it'll be very hard to keep secrets from you.
TROI: This is why you were surprised when you first saw me. This woman. You thought that I would be this woman.
WYATT: I have seen this face ever since I was a boy. When I closed my eyes at night, I could hear her whispering my name. And knowing you were Betazoid, I just assumed it was you projecting yourself into my mind.
TROI: I'm sorry I'm not what you hoped for.
WYATT: No. Please don't mistake a childish fantasy for disappointment. You are so beautiful. I feel honored.
TROI: You've no idea who she is?
WYATT: It doesn't really matter now. Captain's personal log. I trust my concern over the problems of ship's Counselor Troi are not based merely on losing a highly valuable crew member. But it seems to me that she is trapped by a custom of her home world which the facts of the twenty-fourth century life have made unwise and unworkable. I wish I could intervene.

[Bridge]
DATA: On the viewer, Captain. Unidentified vessel traveling sub-warp speed, bearing two three five point seven.
PICARD: Sub-warp? It's several hours away then? Let's take a look at it. Enlarge to maximum.
LAFORGE: Increasing magnification, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, is that the trouble I believe it is?
DATA: If you mean a Tarellian vessel, sir, it is.
RIKER: I thought the Tarellians were all dead What are the poor devils doing here?
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher to Bridge, urgent. They must not be permitted them to destroy us. Or the planet.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believed the Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by the sight of one of their vessels approaching Haven.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The fact that it's traveling at its present velocity suggests a possible answer.
LAFORGE: A damaged vessel, sir. That could explain it.
RIKER: If it were unable to reach warp speed, it would have taken all these years to get here.
PICARD: Go on with your briefing, Mister Data.
DATA: Tarella was class M, much like your Earth, with similar humanoid life forms. Unfortunately they faced the old story of hatred out powering intelligence.
PICARD: There were hostilities?
DATA: Between the inhabitants of their two land masses, resulting in one group unleashing a deadly biological weapon on the other.
CRUSHER: And in the end the other became infected as well. Makes one question the sanity of humanoid forms.
PICARD: Can you identify the origin of the infection, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The Tarellians had reached Earth's late twentieth century level of knowledge. That's all you need if you're a damned fool. A deadly, infectious virus which at that modest level of knowledge is not difficult to grow.
TASHA: We learned the rest of the story in security training. Some Tarellians made it to other worlds only to die along with the populations they infected.
LAFORGE: It's pretty well covered in Academy training now, Captain. Many of them tried to avoid other civilized worlds as they escaped only to be hunted down and destroyed anyway.
PICARD: And it was believed that the last Tarellian vessel was destroyed eight years ago by the Alcyones.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Exactly when will they reach Haven?
DATA: Exactly thirteen hours, nine minutes, twenty two seconds, three hundred fifty
PICARD: Thank you. Which creates a very difficult problem for the Enterprise. Our treaty requires us to protect Haven, and Federation policy requires that we assist life forms in need, which must include the Tarellians. I'll want you to help me find some answers. Thank you. However, there will be ample time for your second assignment, voluntary of course. The pre-joining announcement of Counselor Deanna Troi
PICARD: And Wyatt Miller.

[Lounge]
VICTORIA: We've talked it over, Captain, and the ceremony will be tomorrow if you agree. And Captain, would it be possible for you to perform the ceremony?
PICARD: Well, yes, of course, if all parties request it.
LWAXANA: All parties do not request it. It's simply out of the question. I'm sorry, Captain, but unfortunately you are not practiced in the ways of Betazed joining.
PICARD: No, that's quite true.
LWAXANA: Therefore you are totally unqualified.
VICTORIA: He is qualified to lead a traditional Earth ceremony, which is what this will be.
LWAXANA: I thought you had no sense of humor. Earth wedding? Ridiculous!
VICTORIA: My family and I are living on Earth now.
LWAXANA: So, that's why you want that backward ritual. Terrible, Captain, to see a woman go downhill like this.
TROI: Mother!
VICTORIA: Downhill?
LWAXANA: The matter is settled. Mister Homn will conduct the joining.
STEVEN: But Homn can't even talk!
LWAXANA: No matter, he is highly adept in the acts of sign language. The matter is closed.
VICTORIA: Who are you to tell us what we should do?
LWAXANA: Your ignorance is astonishing. I am Lwaxana Troi. Daughter of The Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir to the Holy Rings of Betazed. Who are you?
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, it is a Starfleet tradition that at social gatherings, disputes are not permitted. I hereby declare therefore all disagreements resolved.
PICARD: A toast. To the young couple and their families.
VICTORIA: And?
PICARD: And may this union be a productive one.
DATA: Considering the rate at which you imbibe, sir, is your lineage at all mixed with human?
WYATT: Is it true, Captain, that there's a Tarellian ship headed for Haven?
PICARD: Yes, it is true.
WYATT: That's amazing. I've read everything I could about them. Biological virus analysis was a favorite subject at medical school.
CRUSHER: In which case I'd very much like to confer with you. I'm pleased to have a medical colleague aboard.
WYATT: Yes, ma'am, Doctor. Would it be possible to prepare some medical needs, geared toward the Tarellian's probable needs? We could beam it over without any fear of infection.
PICARD: What do you think, Doctor?
CRUSHER: It's a very considerate idea. Our Sickbay is at your disposal, Doctor.
WYATT: Thank you.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: You're circling the room like a buzzard.
DATA: Perhaps being human yourself, sir, you do not find them as intriguing as I.
VICTORIA: Must he do that?
LWAXANA: As you well know, it is the Betazed way of giving thanks for the food we eat.
VICTORIA: You giving thanks? Besides, you never did this before.
LWAXANA: I do it now. Unlike some people, I am in growth.
LWAXANA: Victoria, I've forgotten whether you enjoy pets or not.
VICTORIA: Love them, of course.
LWAXANA: Good.
LWAXANA: Gently, gently. Poor baby, did she hurt you?
RIKER: Captain. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to spend some time considering the Tarellian situation
PICARD: Yes, of course.
RIKER: Ladies and gentlemen.
DATA: Mrs. Troi, I'm very interested in the Betazed ceremony you mentioned. Could you tell us more?
LWAXANA: Why, I'd be delighted, Commander. It's an ancient ceremony, widely regarded as the most beautiful in the universe. After the young couple have removed their clothing
TASHA: The bride and groom go naked?
LWAXANA: All guests must go unclothed. It honors the act of love being celebrated. Oh, you needn't worry too much, dear. Your body's not that bad. Besides, your husband quite likes the idea of seeing me unclothed.
VICTORIA: Steven!
LWAXANA: You did know he's attracted to me, didn't you?
STEVEN: Untrue! I don't.
TROI: Stop this petty bickering, all of you! Especially you, Mother!
DATA: Could you please continue the petty bickering? I find it most intriguing.

[Holodeck]
TROI: May I join you?
RIKER: I will miss you, Deanna.
TROI: I'm no longer Imzadi to you?
RIKER: You taught me that word means my beloved.
TROI: And the human heart is too small to permit that feeling now.
RIKER: Have you discussed this with Wyatt? I think you should. It's also damned unfair to me.
TROI: I understand. I should have realized. Humans, young human males particularly, have difficulty separating platonic love and physical love.
RIKER: The problem is, Imzadi, I couldn't. Not now. Call it an old Earth tradition, habit of the beasts, whatever.
WYATT: Hello, you two.
RIKER: We were just talking about you, Wyatt.
WYATT: This is incredible.
RIKER: Yes. And in that discussion, I
TROI: Actually, Bill was concerned that you might be upset that I care deeply for him, too.
WYATT: Oh. You're the one who wants to be a starship captain. Yes, I've heard that bonding or marriage would complicate things in that case. To each his own. Good luck with that ambition. And I very much respected what you did tonight.
TROI: All I did was lose my temper.
RIKER: If you'll excuse me.
WYATT: Of course. Running all this is a big job.
WYATT: In fact, you shamed them into compromise. So they've decided that the joining will be half Betazed, half Earth. The Captain will do the ceremony and Mister Homn will be my best man.
TROI: And we'll take our clothes half off?
WYATT: Some of us still go naked. You do, I do, your mother, my father, but not my mother or the guests.
TROI: Captain Picard will be very relieved. How did you manage it?
WYATT: Your mother relented. And I just caught my father practicing naked in front of his mirror. And so, a question I should have asked before. Deanna, do you really want to go through with this?
TROI: Yes, I want to.
WYATT: I'm a very lucky man.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. All attempts at warning off the Tarellian ship have failed. They still refuse to communicate and I am growing concerned.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How can you be certain they're receiving us?
DATA: Because our sensors are showing a responder echo, sir, on the frequency they once used.
LAFORGE: We have a message, sir, coming in from Haven.
PICARD: On viewer.
VALEDA (screen): Captain, the plague ship is approaching transport range.
PICARD: We are aware of that, Electorine.
VALEDA (screen): Do you realize that they can turn this lovely world of ours into a graveyard? Please, please take action now before it's too late.
RIKER: We recognize your situation.
VALEDA (screen): Please destroy them now!
PICARD: We will not fire on them, Electorine.
VALEDA (screen): You must!
TASHA: I'm certain I could disable their ship with a phaser burst, Captain.
PICARD: And then, Lieutenant?
DATA: They're within transporter range, sir.
PICARD: Then we can't delay any longer. Ready the tractor beam, Lieutenant Yar. Target the ship. Activate on my command.
TASHA: Tractor beam ready.
PICARD: Engage.
TASHA: Got them, sir.
PICARD: Do we have them securely, Lieutenant? Can they beam out to the planet?
TASHA: Negative, sir. They can't leave that ship.
LAFORGE: I know they can receive us, Captain. At this distance they can respond with running lights if necessary.
DATA: Unless they have all died. Their ship could have been brought in by automation.
RIKER: Captain!
TROI: It's the woman in Wyatt's drawings.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41294.6. Orbiting Haven with the Tarellian vessel locked in our tractor beam. Question. What strange of circumstances has caused a woman out of someone's imagination to appear on the plague ship?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Enterprise to Tarellian vessel, are you receiving us?
WRENN (screen): My name is Wrenn, and before I enquire why your tractor beam has trapped us here, is there one aboard your vessel named Wyatt?
WYATT: Captain, I don't understand.
WRENN (screen): It's astounding. Ariana was right. He is here, daughter.
ARIANA: Wyatt, you've come just as you promised.
WYATT: How could I be so accurate? Except for the dream images, I've never seen her.
PICARD: Sir, our concern is with the threat your vessel poses to the planet below. If you're still carrying the infection which destroyed your world
WRENN (screen): Oh, we still carry it, Captain. My daughter, I, all eight of us.
PICARD: Eight?
WRENN (screen): All of us that are left, Captain. Most of the rest passed on during the years that it took to reach Haven.
PICARD: If you've come here because of the legend about planet Haven miraculously healing the sick.
WRENN (screen): We don't ask to make contact with those living below. All we ask is to be on the edge of some sea, some unpopulated island, a faraway peninsula.
PICARD: This is not our planet, sir, but I will present your needs to those who do govern this world.
WRENN (screen): Present the fact we intend to die here, Captain. And if we die while caged by your tractor beam, so be it.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: Oh, Wyatt, how do you like my new hairstyle? Of course, it's going to look much better on me when I'm naked.
WYATT: Mrs. Troi, can I talk to you about something serious?
LWAXANA: Oh, but I am always serious, dear boy. Only my pleasant nature makes it appear otherwise.
WYATT: Please, Mrs. Troi.
LWAXANA: Yes, that was puzzling. A woman out of another place who insists that she knows you.
WYATT: And
LWAXANA: And whom you've dreamed of all these years.
WYATT: And I hoped that the way you handle thoughts
LWAXANA: Fascinating, Wyatt, how easily your thoughts come through. The answer to the puzzle of Ariana and you is so simple, it's too simple for most humans to understand.
WYATT: Too simple?
LWAXANA: Of course. It's something they all know instinctively but go to great effort to reject or to build complicated superstitions about. All life, Wyatt, all consciousness, is indissolvably bound together. Indeed, it's all part of the same thing.
WYATT: Yes. I have wondered if something like that
LWAXANA: That weren't so. And no doubt so has Ariana, which helped the two of you to make contact. Wyatt, tell me something seriously. Which of these would look best on me naked?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Wyatt? Are you feeling all right?
WYATT: Just wedding nerves. The supplies are ready. I'll take them to the transporter room.
CRUSHER: I'll notify the Captain they're ready.

[Lounge]
VICTORIA: Look at your father, Wyatt. He just can't wait to strip off his clothes for that barbaric ceremony.
WYATT: Please take care of each other. You are beautiful. But you looked best of all in the desert on the holodeck when we did this.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: You can put the supplies on the pad. Doctor Crusher had me set the coordinates. All we need is the captain's order.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain! Someone's transporting over to the Tarellian ship.
PICARD: Override.
LAFORGE: I can't sir. It's too late.

[Tarellian ship]
WRENN: Hello, Wyatt. We always thought you were a dream.
WYATT: You're not surprised. Did you know I'd beam over?
WRENN: Once we saw you were real, we knew. You are a doctor?
WYATT: Yes. I've brought medicines and supplies.
ARIANA: And I knew you would be this brave.

[Bridge]
VICTORIA: How could you let this happen? My son, surrounded by those horrible lepers!
PICARD: Mrs. Miller, if I could have prevented this I would have.
VICTORIA: Beam him back.
TROI: He can never come back, Mrs. Miller.
WRENN (screen): You may turn off your tractor beam, Captain. We will not be going to Haven. We have what we really came for.
VICTORIA: Wyatt?
WYATT: Mother. Father. Forgive me, but I must. I'm going to try to continue the work to cure these people.
ARIANA: And Wyatt will do it. I've believed that all along.
WYATT: I knew I was coming to Haven to meet my destiny. I thought it was to be with you, Deanna. It was Ariana who drew me here. I'm sorry.
TROI: Wyatt, I'm happy for you, and for Ariana too.
LWAXANA: You've done very well for a human, Wyatt.
TROI: Mother.
WRENN (screen): Captain, my respects.
PICARD: And mine, sir.
TROI: Goodbye.

[Transporter room]
STEVEN: Keep the chest. You'll have use for it some day.
LWAXANA: Seems such a shame to waste the whole trip. Perhaps I should stay and be joined to a new mate?
TROI: What?
LWAXANA: Well, the Captain's highly attracted to me, but he's a little too old. Perhaps I should choose you.
TROI: He has other obligations, Mother.
LWAXANA: Oh. Very well. It's his loss. Mister Homn.
HOMN: Thank you for the drinks.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Try and remember your heritage, little one. Captain! Even Xelo never had such thoughts about me. You may energize.
TROI: That was meant as a joke, Captain.
PICARD: I was not amused.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Take us out of here, Mister Riker.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Warp two, helm. Heading five seven mark three one nine.
PICARD: Our destiny is elsewhere. But I'm happy that yours is here with us, Counselor.
LAFORGE: Warp two, heading five seven mark three one nine.
RIKER: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 41263.1. We have rendezvoused with the USS Fearless, from which a Starfleet propulsion expert and his assistant are beaming over to conduct tests on the Enterprise's warp drive engines. They have completed similar adjustments on two other Starfleet vessels.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I don't understand your concern, Number One. They're not authorized to make any alterations in our engines, and according to Starfleet's report, they will simply test different ways of entering warp speed and different intermix formulas. What's the harm in that?
RIKER: It's the specs that Kosinski sent us. In my opinion, sir, they're gibberish.
PICARD: Gibberish?
RIKER: Mister Data, would you explain?
DATA: Sir, we put Mister Kosinski's specs into the computer and ran a controlled test on them. There was no improvement in engine performance.
PICARD: Then how do you explain Starfleet's report that the same tests on the USS Ajax and on the Fearless over there, resulted in a measurable increase in propulsion.
RIKER: Our engines are new, sir. Top condition. The tests on those older ships may have simply been to straighten out some engine inefficiency.
CHIEF (voiceover): Bridge from Transporter Chief. Two from USS Fearless are ready to beam over.
PICARD: Stand by for Commander Riker, Chief. He's on his way.
CHIEF (voiceover): Aye, sir,
PICARD: Since you're concerned about these tests.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Captain, if I may, I'll ask Counselor Troi to look these visitors over.
PICARD: Very good.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome aboard, Mister Kosinski. I'm the First Officer, Commander William Riker, and this is
KOSINSKI: Where is the Captain, please?
RIKER: He is engaged in other duties, sir.
KOSINSKI: A ship's engines should be a concern of the ship's Captain.
RIKER: They are, sir. Which is why they have made the First Officer directly responsible for an engine's condition and performance. Guided, of course, by one of our Chief Engineers, Lieutenant Commander Argyle in this case.
ARGYLE: A pleasure, sir. I appreciated receiving the specs.
KOSINSKI: To which you have no end of questions?
ARGYLE: Aye, I have.
RIKER: And you, sir, are listed as
TRAVELLER: As Mister Kosinski's assistant. My actual name is unpronounceable by humans.
RIKER: You're from Tau Alpha C. That's very distant.
KOSINSKI: All approved and described in the Starfleet communications. Now, I would like to set up in the Engine Room immediately.
RIKER: I'll have our Chief Engineer show you to his Engine Room.
KOSINSKI: No need. I know my way around starships.
RIKER: One thing that Kosinski isn't hiding, his bad disposition.
TROI: Agreed. Also, he's arrogant, overbearing, self-important, and very sure of himself and his ability.
RIKER: And the other one, his assistant?
TROI: He's the puzzle. With most life forms I can usually feel something. I may not be able to understand or interpret it, but I feel something, if only a presence. With him, nothing. Empty space. It's as though he isn't even here. Something about this concerns me. I don't know what, I can't point out a reason yet.
RIKER: Stay concerned, please. The safety of the Enterprise may be entrusted to these two.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: Inform the Bridge I shall begin the first test in precisely fifteen minutes. Why is that child here?
ARGYLE: He's working on a school project. Before you begin, there are some questions. First, tell us how you arrived
KOSINSKI: In order to save myself time, let me ask those questions for you. You received the information which Starfleet provided, you fed it into your computer as precisely as humanly possible, then you did a controlled test. And then, to your astonishment, nothing happened. So you said, what's going on? This doesn't work. Kosinski's a fraud. You see, I have had this conversation on other Starfleet vessels before. They didn't understand it. why should you?
ARGYLE: Surely you're not saying it's unexplainable?
KOSINSKI: I'm saying I'm not a teacher, nor do I wish to become one. I have neither the inclination nor the time.
RIKER: You have all the time you need.
KOSINSKI: I don't think you understand. This has already been approved by Starfleet Command.
RIKER: But it hasn't been approved by the Chief Engineer or by me.
KOSINSKI: I didn't know that was necessary.
RIKER: Now you do.
KOSINSKI: Perhaps I should speak to Captain Picard.
RIKER: If you like. It won't change anything.
KOSINSKI: How basic shall I be?
RIKER: I'll leave that to you.
KOSINSKI: Would you get onto the auxiliary panel, please?
KOSINSKI: In order to save time, my assistant is going to lay in my base formulas more rapidly than any human being possibly could, including even myself. So, here then, in the simplest possible terms, what I do. Now, this warp drive system was tuned only in the grossest possible sense, at least according to my standards. What I do is specific. Thank you. Well, sufficient to say for now, these symbols
TRAVELLER: Something troubles you with the way this is configured? How about it now?
WESLEY: Yes. But shouldn't these be connected? Here and here.
TRAVELLER: Now will it do what Kosinski says it will?
WESLEY: It has a chance. It might work better this way. Yes.
KOSINSKI: View with me if you will this screen as we consider the following. Now, is this merely mechanics or is it nature that we deal with in all of this? And what else than nature are the elementals of space and time? You are trained in the system. You go in a straight line, competent, yes, and perhaps even innovative in a minimalist way, but what I do here is not the end of the process, it is the beginning. So, what do I do? Go back to the Fearless, which I left with a more efficient warp drive than I found? Or do you cast off your ignorance and allow me to continue?
RIKER: Could anything he's proposing damage our system?
ARGYLE: How could it? It's meaningless.
RIKER: Then we should let him try it?
KOSINSKI: What do you mean, let he him try it? Don't talk about me in the third person like I'm not standing right here!
ARGYLE: Yes, we might as well let him try it.
KOSINSKI: Oh yes, we might as well let him try it. You are too generous. Boy! Boy, don't play with that.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, main Engineering is ready to proceed.
PICARD: Engineering, this is the Bridge. It's your call.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: Do this one just like the last time. Nothing changes. Commander, I'll make my preliminary adjustments at warp one point five, and complete them as we achieve warp four.
RIKER: Engineering to bridge, did you copy that?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Affirmative, Number One. Are you ready?

[Engineering]
RIKER: We are.
PICARD (voiceover): La Forge, set in warp one point five.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: All right, here we go.
KOSINSKI: What are you doing?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, we're passing warp ten!
PICARD: What is our velocity?
DATA: It's off the scale, sir.
PICARD: Reverse engines.
DATA: Captain, no one has ever reversed engines at this velocity.
PICARD: Because no one has gone this fast. Reverse engines.
PICARD: All stop.
LAFORGE: Reading all stop, sir.
PICARD: Position?
LAFORGE: Calculating it, sir. Data, what do you read there?
DATA: Malfunction, I trust.
PICARD: Position, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Well, sir, according to these calculations, we've not only left our own galaxy, but passed through two others, ending up on the far side of Triangulum. The galaxy known as M Thirty Three.
PICARD: That's not possible. Data, what distance have we traveled?
DATA: Two million seven hundred thousand light years.
PICARD: I can't accept that.
DATA: You must, sir. Our comparisons show it to be completely accurate.
LAFORGE: And I calculate that at maximum warp, sir it would take over three hundred years to get home.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41263.2. This will be a rather unusual log entry, assuming Starfleet ever receives it. As I have already informed my crew, a phenomenal surge of power during a warp speed experiment has sent our starship hurtling out of our own galaxy, past another, taking us over two million seven hundred thousand light years in a few minutes.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Message on this has been transmitted to Starfleet, sir.
DATA: Which, traveling subspace, they should receive in fifty-one years, ten months nine weeks, sixteen days
PICARD: Mister Data!
DATA: Sir?
KOSINSKI: Captain Picard, I presume?
RIKER: We're still trying to determine what happened, sir.
KOSINSKI: The truth is, Captain, I made a mistake. A wonderful, incredible mistake.
PICARD: Just explain what brought us here.
KOSINSKI: As the power grew, I applied the energy asymptomatically. I anticipated some tilling, but it didn't occur. Now that was my error, using the Bessel functions at the beginning.
PICARD: What is he saying, Number One?
RIKER: To tell the truth, sir, it sounds to me like nonsense to me. But considering
PICARD: Considering where we are, we must assume it isn't.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Can I do something to help? I can call my mother. She's a doctor.
TRAVELLER: No, there's nothing she can do. I need to rest. I've been away too long.
WESLEY: What happened to you, is it part of what happened to the ship?
TRAVELLER: Please believe me, I mean no harm to this vessel or those in it.
WESLEY: Is Mister Kosinski like he sounds? A joke?
TRAVELLER: No, that's too cruel. He has sensed some small part of it
WESLEY: That space and time and thought aren't the separate things they appear to be? I just thought the formula you were using said something like that.
TRAVELLER: Boy, don't ever say that again. And especially not at your age in a world that's not ready for such, such dangerous nonsense.

[Bridge]
KOSINSKI: I've always suspected this rate of speed was possible, of course, but at this level? No, never. We're going to need new definitions. New parameters.
ARGYLE: Perhaps you could call it the Kosinski scale.
KOSINSKI: Why not? Yes, of course. Since I'm the one who has made the so-called warp barrier meaningless. And, Captain, this must be a special thrill for you.
PICARD: Thrill?
KOSINSKI: As an explorer. In three centuries of space flight, we've charted just eleven percent of our galaxy. And then we accomplish this.
PICARD: Yes, but isn't the real point, can you do it again? Can you get us home?
KOSINSKI: Of course I can. I'll just do what I did before. Coming, Riker?
PICARD: Commander Riker will join you in a moment.
PICARD: Comment is invited. Counselor?
TROI: He's convinced he's right. I have no doubt of that.
WORF: Captain, can you allow a man who has made one mistake back into a position where he may make another?
LAFORGE: Captain, what are our options really? I mean, if this guy can't get us back, who will?
DATA: Captain, we're here. Why not avail ourselves of this opportunity for study? There is a giant protostar here in the process of forming. No other vessel has been out this far.
PICARD: Spoken like a true Starfleet graduate. It is tempting, eh, Number One?
RIKER: Aye, sir, it is. But as they say, sir, you're the Captain.
PICARD: I know that if Kosinski can get us home, Starfleet can use his technique to bring back a pure science vessel to do even more. Number One, tell Kosinski prepare to get us out of here.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: Do you realize how many great advancements of mankind have been tied to speed? This is a moment in history. Right here, right now. And your names will be forever linked with mine.
WESLEY: Excuse me, Commander Riker. I don't think he did this. I think
RIKER: Not now, Wes.
PICARD (voiceover): Standing by, Number One.
WESLEY: But sir, when this all happened, I was watching his assistant
RIKER: I'm sure it was fascinating, Wesley. I am looking forward to hearing about it. But not right now.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
KOSINSKI: Come on.
WESLEY: He's too tired. Why don't you do it by yourself?
KOSINSKI: Yes, why not?
TRAVELLER: No, I will help.
KOSINSKI: As you wish.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've laid in the reciprocal course back, Captain.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: Tell the captain I am ready, First Officer.
RIKER: We're ready for you to engage, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): As before

[Bridge]
PICARD: Begin at warp one point five.
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, sir.

[Engineering]
KOSINSKI: This isn't working.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stop.
LAFORGE: Answering all stop, Captain.
DATA: According to the instruments, sir, our speed never exceeded warp one point five.
LAFORGE: All stopped, sir.
PICARD: Yes, but where is this place?
DATA: Where none have gone before.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41263.3. Instead of returning to our own galaxy, the Enterprise has gone forward to a place in the universe which is uncharted and unknown. Our present position puts us at over a billion light years from our galaxy.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, you have the helm. I'll be in Engineering.
TASHA: What is it?
WORF: A Klingon Targ! My pet. From home, but when I was a child.
TASHA: You're telling me that's a kitty-cat?
WORF: Yes, I suppose you could call it that.

[Bridge]
TASHA: You darling, what are you doing here?

[Tunnel]
TASHA: Now, run. This isn't a safe place at all.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Tasha, what's wrong? You look scared to death.
TASHA: I was, I was. This is crazy. I was at the colony where I grew up, being chased by a rape gang
LAFORGE: Are you all right? Well, you're safe now.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: Captain! Captain, we need help.
PICARD: What's wrong?
CREWMAN: Don't you see what's following us?
PICARD: Ensign, what are you doing?
MAMAN: You look tense, Jean-Luc. Come and have a cup of tea.
PICARD: Maman?
MAMAN: I'll make it good and strong, the way you like it. We will have a nice long talk.
PICARD: This can't be. You've been
MAMAN: Dead? But I'm always with you, you know that.
PICARD: Yes, I've felt that. But why now, suddenly.
MAMAN: You mean out here? At what you say us the end of the universe? Or do you see this as the beginning of it?
PICARD: We believe it the outer rim. Maman, do you understand these things? Can you tell me where my ship is? What is this place?
RIKER: Captain? You were reported headed for
PICARD: Just a moment, Number One!
RIKER: Can I help you, sir?
PICARD: No. No, let's help all of us. General quarters. Red Alert.

[Engineering]
ARGYLE: What is it Captain? Why are we at General quarters?
PICARD: I had to get everyone's attention. It was the quickest way. This is the Captain. This is not a drill. It seems that in this place, the world of the physical universe and the world of ideas is somehow intermixed. What we think

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Also becomes a reality. We must, therefore, I repeat, must begin controlling our thoughts.

[Corridor]
PICARD (voiceover): We will give you more on this as our understanding increases. The Enterprise will stay at full alert until the crisis is over.

[Engineering]
PICARD: What did you do?
RIKER: It wasn't him. It never was. It was his assistant.
PICARD: What are you talking about?
RIKER: Kosinski wasn't the one controlling the warp experiments.
KOSINSKI: It was me!
RIKER: The equations he punched in were nonsense, just as we thought.
KOSINSKI: I honestly thought it was me. I thought somehow, somehow I was operating on his level.
ARGYLE: It's also my fault, Captain. I should have realized it wasn't Kosinski.
PICARD: How could you? How could any of us?
RIKER: Wesley did.
PICARD: If you knew something, why didn't you say so?
RIKER: He tried, twice. I didn't listen.
PICARD: He's unconscious. Why?
CRUSHER: I'm not certain yet.
WESLEY: He phased, sir.
PICARD: What does that mean?
WESLEY: Parts of him disappeared and then came back. Nobody else was paying attention to him the first time.
RIKER: When we saw it this time, he seemed to be struggling, fighting it.
CRUSHER: He's dying.
PICARD: He mustn't. He's the only one who can get us back.
CRUSHER: Realistically, it does not seem possible.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our position is unknown, and our only chance of returning to the known universe is a dying alien who is generally humanoid but with a physiology sufficiently different from our own to create medical problems in caring for him.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Cause?
CRUSHER: I don't know. My equipment doesn't register his kind of life signs. I would have to guess exhaustion, fatigue.
WESLEY: Is he going to be all right?
PICARD: What is the boy doing here?
WESLEY: Mom, he's my friend.
RIKER: You may want him here before we're done, sir. He seems to have developed some sort of special attachment to the boy.
WESLEY: My name is Wesley, Commander Riker.
PICARD: He knows. We all know. Will he live?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure.
PICARD: Wake him.
CRUSHER: I recommend we let him come around in his own time.
PICARD: We don't have that luxury. Wake him.
CRUSHER: He could die, and with him any chance we have.
PICARD: Doctor. Wes. We all have other friends aboard this ship, too. If we stay here much longer we may lose the ability to distinguish between thought and reality. Now, regardless of the risk, wake him. Now.
PICARD: Do you recognize me? I'm the Captain and I need answers.
TRAVELLER: I'll do my best to provide
PICARD: Who are you? Or what?
TRAVELLER: I am a Traveler.
PICARD: Traveler? What is your destination?
TRAVELLER: Destination?
PICARD: Yes, what place are you trying to reach?
TRAVELLER: Ah, place. No. There is no specific place I wish to go.
PICARD: Then what is the purpose of your journey?
TRAVELLER: Curiosity.
PICARD: That's not an answer.
TRAVELLER: I have certain abilities. They give me an understanding of propulsion. I've been trading this for passage on Starfleet vessels.
RIKER: And allowing Kosinski to take credit for what you did.
TRAVELLER: It seemed the sensible way.
PICARD: Until now.
TRAVELLER: Captain, I seek only transportation in order to see and experience your reality. I am no a threat to you, your ship or your crew.
WESLEY: He isn't, Captain. I know he isn't.
PICARD: Our reality? And in order to satisfy this curiosity, you have brought my ship and my crew into great risk.
TRAVELLER: I have made some mistakes.
PICARD: Some mistakes? What mistakes could possibly explain these incredible explosions of velocity?
TRAVELLER: I don't know if I can put this in terms you'll understand.
PICARD: I believe there may be a warp speed that can get us beyond Galaxy M Thirty Three, but there is no velocity of any magnitude that can possibly bring us wherever this is. Is it true what our navigation sensors are telling us? Are we millions of light years away from where we were?
TRAVELLER: Well, yes.
PICARD: Well, what got us here?
TRAVELLER: Thought.
PICARD: Thought?
TRAVELLER: You do understand, don't you that thought is the basis of all reality? The energy of thought, to put it in your terms, is very powerful.
KOSINSKI: That's not an explanation.
TRAVELLER: I have the ability to act like a lens which focuses thought.
KOSINSKI: That's just so much nonsense. You're asking us to believe in magic.
TRAVELLER: Well yes, this could seem like magic to you.
PICARD: No. No, it actually makes sense to me. Only the power of thought could explain what has been happening. Especially out here.
TRAVELLER: Thought is the essence of where you are now. You do understand the danger, don't you?
PICARD: Chaos. What we think is what happens.
TRAVELLER: It pains me I was so careless, Captain. My intent was only to observe, not to cause this. You should not be here until your far, far distant future. Certainly not until you have learned control.
RIKER: You are from a different time, aren't you?
TRAVELLER: Well, no, not exactly from another time. Although as you understand the concept, yes, perhaps that term fits as well as any.
RIKER: And you have this ability to travel.
TRAVELLER: Yes.
RIKER: And others of your kind have the same ability?
TRAVELLER: Yes.
RIKER: Then why, in all of our history, is there no record of you or someone like you ever having visited us?
TRAVELLER: What wonderful arrogance. There is no record because we have not visited you before.
RIKER: Why not?
TRAVELLER: Well, up until now, if you'll forgive this, you've been uninteresting. It's only now that your life form merits serious attention. I'm sorry.
PICARD: What's happening?
CRUSHER: He's unconscious again.
PICARD: Revive him.
CRUSHER: Whatever you need from him, you'd better get it soon.
RIKER: If I may suggest, sir, that first leap out of our galaxy was, as he said, a mistake.
PICARD: Unless he was distracted by something.
RIKER: And it weakened him, in some way leading to the incredible leap out here.
KOSINSKI: Theory!
PICARD: Do you have any facts that fit this? Can you get us back?
KOSINSKI: Wait, Captain, not so fast. We have an opportunity here for scientific discovery.
PICARD: And we report our observations how? To whom? Can you get us back?
TRAVELLER: I will try.
PICARD: Number One, take him down to main Engineering. I'll be on the Bridge.
WESLEY: No! He's very weak.
TRAVELLER: The Captain's right. We must hurry. But first, I request a moment with the Captain. Alone.
PICARD: Strange how he seems to care for you.
TRAVELLER: He will forget me in time, which is as it should be. It's Wesley I wanted to speak to you about.
PICARD: The boy?
TRAVELLER: It's best you do not repeat this to the others, especially not to the mother. Whatever may happen, it is imperative that it proceed naturally.
PICARD: I must get my ship back. Do we have time for this?
TRAVELLER: Oh, yes. He and a few like him are why I travel. You have it in your power to encourage him without interfering.
PICARD: Encourage him in what?
TRAVELLER: How shall I explain? Are you familiar with the intricacies of what is called here music?
PICARD: Somewhat.
TRAVELLER: Such musical genius I saw in one of your ship's libraries. One called Mozart, who as a small child wrote astonishing symphonies. A genius who made music not only to be heard, but seen and felt beyond the understanding, the ability of others. Wesley is such a person. Not with music, but with the equally lovely intricacies of time, energy, propulsion. and the instruments of this vessel which allow all that to be played. You're right, I must hurry now. But you're right in something else. He is just a boy for now. He should be encouraged, but told none of this.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We're going to get back home. Take him to Engineering.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I'll be on the Bridge.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Put it out!
CREWMAN: How?
PICARD: Think! Put the flame out in your thoughts.
PICARD: Now, Get to your station and concentrate on your assignment.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log. Any time entry is meaningless. We have no choice but to repeat the same warp experiment. but wish one variation. A principal part of this warp formula will be the thoughts of everyone aboard the Enterprise. We have no idea exactly how this works. We understand only that the Traveler makes use of this somehow. It will be most important that those aboard avoid random thoughts that might change the reality of what we're attempting to do.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do you have any further advice, Counselor?
TROI: When you begin the attempt, there will be stress, and it's only natural the crew's concentration will shift.
TASHA: Plus some genuine fear, Captain. You can't notice what's happening outside without feeling some of that.
PICARD: All decks, all stations.

[Various parts of the ship]
PICARD (voiceover): This is the Captain speaking. All decks, I must have your full attention. In a few moments, as we attempt to warp back home, it is vital, absolutely vital, that you center your thoughts on your duty or on the welfare of the one called the Traveler.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Think of giving him some of your strength. Now, this is an order. You must try to do this.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And now, attempt to concentrate completely on your duty of the moment. Or on the Traveler, on his well being.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Think of him as someone you care deeply about.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All decks, all stations. Battle stations.

[Engineering]
TRAVELLER: I will need Kosinski back on the main computer.
KOSINSKI: You need me?
TRAVELLER: Yes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Helm, set in warp one point five, retroactive course.
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, retroactive two six one mark three one, sir.
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Stand by.
TROI: I feel such an abundance of well being on the ship. It feels like, quite wonderful.
RIKER (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge, we're ready.
PICARD: On my order, Mister Data, Mister La Forge. Engage.
PICARD: It's not happening. It's not enough.
DATA: Warp one point five, sir, which is what my instruments have read all along.
LAFORGE: And our position reads exactly what it was before this sleigh ride began, sir.
PICARD: Cease Red Alert.
DATA: Sleigh ride?
LAFORGE: Or whatever you want to call it, Data. I don't have a proper name for it.
RIKER: The Traveler's gone, sir.
PICARD: Gone?
RIKER: He's phased completely out of existence. At least, out of our existence.
PICARD: Attention all decks. This is to inform you that with your support the Traveler has returned us to our galaxy. However, he has now left us. Wherever he has gone, we wish him well. Have the boy sent to the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Wesley Crusher, report to the Bridge, on the double.
PICARD: Our next assignment is on this heading?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, Mister La Forge, increase to warp five. Same heading.
DATA: Warp five, sir.
LAFORGE: On that same heading, sir.
PICARD: Ah, Wesley. Come on the Bridge. Move!
PICARD: Commander Riker has told me how supportive you were in Engineering. Well done. At ease. Sit here in Command.
RIKER: Captain, it's not allowed. Your orders.
PICARD: Oh, that's true. Well, I can't waive them again. Only commissioned officers.
WESLEY: It's quite all right, sir, I understand.
PICARD: Please don't interrupt me, Wesley.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, sir.
PICARD: Any commissioned rank? Even ensign?
RIKER: That would give him authorized access to the Bridge.
PICARD: Well, then, I'll have to make him an acting ensign. Captain's log, stardate 41263.4. For outstanding performance in the best of Starfleet tradition, Wesley Crusher is made Acting Ensign, with the duties and privileges of that rank. And whether that rank becomes permanent, Mister Crusher, depends on you. At the earliest opportunity, your entrance application for Starfleet Academy will be tendered. Until then, you will learn this ship. Every operation, every function. Commander Riker, a duty schedule for Mister Crusher, heavy on study.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Meanwhile, you can sit here and learn something.
RIKER: Sir, shall I send for Doctor Crusher?
PICARD: Why? Is someone ill? Or would you rather tell her about this, Wes?
WESLEY: If you don't mind, sir, I'd like to sit here awhile. I'll tell her later.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41386.4. We are in pursuit of a starship of Ferengi design. Our mission is to intercept and recover a T9 energy converter which the Ferengi stole from an unmanned monitor post on Gamma Tauri Four. A theft which automatic scanners recorded, providing us with the long awaited opportunity to make close contact with a Ferengi vessel. If we succeed in this chase, it will be Starfleet's first look at a life form which, discounting rumor, we know almost nothing about.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There she is.
PICARD: Enlarge. What is their course?
LAFORGE: They are now angling through that solar system, Captain.
PICARD: Identify.
DATA: Listed as Delphi Ardu, sir. Eleven planets, unexplored.
RIKER: Stay with them, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
TASHA: Sensors read a power surge from their last maneuver, Captain.
LAFORGE: They are dropping to subwarp speed.
PICARD: Reduce to impulse power.
TASHA: Sensor record fluctuations in the energy readings from it, Captain.
DATA: Possibility, a malfunction in their engines, sir.
LAFORGE: Breaks my heart.
WORF: In visual range, Captain.
PICARD: Fully enlarge.
LAFORGE: Hello, stranger.
PICARD: Very impressive design.
RIKER: Anything on that design, Data?
DATA: Nothing specific, sir. As you know, Ferengi technology is estimated to be generally equal to our own.
PICARD: But that does not mean identical, however.
DATA: Correct, sir. We are no doubt advanced in some areas, they in others.
LAFORGE: Showing another power surge, sir.
WORF: They are firing on us.
PICARD: Damage report?
TASHA: Shields holding.
DATA: Mostly electromagnetic, sir. Fusion generator and batteries down by thirty percent.
LAFORGE: Our impulse engines are surging now.
WORF: They're firing again.
TASHA: Deflector shield power weakening, Captain. Phasers ready. Photon torpedoes ready.
RIKER: Do we return their fire, sir?
PICARD: Negative, Number One. They're just reacting to our close pursuit. Fall back a bit but stay with them.
DATA: They are slowing too, sir.
TASHA: They may be turning to fight.
PICARD: Open hailing freq. Why are we gaining on them? Don't anticipate.
LAFORGE: I'm not, sir. Something's wrong.
DATA: Sir, something is dragging us forward.
PICARD: I read that, too. Lieutenant Yar, what do your sensors show?
TASHA: Not certain, sir. I'm getting very confusing readings.
DATA: Captain, this shouldn't be. Our ship's power systems are failing.
TASHA: Deflector shield failing. Phasers going inoperative, Captain.
LAFORGE: Captain, something is completely immobilizing us.
WORF: Immobilized by the damn Ferengi.
PICARD: We need more information. What the hell are they are using?
RIKER: Obviously we've underestimated their technology, Captain.
PICARD: Considerably. It appears the Ferengi have us right where they want us. In their sights. Are you searching all frequencies? Any sign of any kind of messages?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Weapons report, Lieutenant.
TASHA: I have phasers and torpedoes armed, but I show insufficient power to fire them.
PICARD: Engineering, give me status on power recovery. Engineering, come in. Why aren't they answering? La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: Get me a full report from Engineering.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's impossible they could be draining all power from all systems.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I'm sensing nothing from them Captain. Which could mean they can shield their thoughts and emotions from others.
PICARD: It still makes it our move.
TROI: Sir, they may know as little about us as we do about them.
RIKER: Except that they know they've got us in deep trouble.
PICARD: If so, the question becomes how will they use that knowledge? Data, do you have any information touching this on any file?
DATA: None, sir. Only hearsay and third hand reports, most of which conflict.
RIKER: Which reports do not conflict?
DATA: That the Ferengi are, well, the best description may be traders.
PICARD: What kind of traders?
DATA: A comparison modern scholars have drawn from Earth history likens the Ferengi to the ocean-going Yankee traders of eighteenth and nineteenth century America, sir.
RIKER: From the history of my forebears. Yankee traders.
DATA: Who in this case sail the galaxy in search of mercantile and territorial opportunity.
RIKER: And are those scholars saying the Ferengi may not unlike us?
DATA: Hardly, sir. I believe this analogy refers to the worst quality of capitalists. The Ferengi are believed to conduct their affairs of commerce on the ancient principle caveat emptor. Let the buyer beware.
RIKER: Yankee traders. I like the sound of that.
DATA: Well, sir, I doubt they wear red, white and blue, or look anything like Uncle Sam.
PICARD: Engineering? Join La Forge down below in Engineering, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Without warp capacity, we're just a floating target.
WORF: Uncle who?
TASHA: What have bright, primary colors got to do with it?
PICARD: I understand the allusion. Colors representing countries at a time when they competed with each other. Red, white and blue for the United States. Whereas the French more properly used the same colors in the order of blue, white and red.
DATA: And the German nation red, black and gold. The Italians green, white and red. The British
PICARD: That's enough, Data.
DATA: It was you who
PICARD: We're discussing the Ferengi. I wish I had some clue as to what they will do next.
DATA: Given what is now happening to our ship, sir, their weapons could be vastly superior to ours.
PICARD: Yes, Data, that is a natural assumption. Engineering?

[Engineering]
RIKER: Bottom line, La Forge.
LAFORGE: It's not good, sir. The Ferengi forcefield that holds this ship compensates almost as fast as we can increase power.
RIKER: Almost?
LAFORGE: Well, there's a point three hundred seventy two millisecond delay between use of our power and the neutralizing counter force of the Ferengi. See, we push and they push back in equal force, sir.
RIKER: What's our acceleration delay between slow-reverse impulse and top warp speed?
LAFORGE: That's point three-hundred milliseconds. There's Ah, I see where you're going. We shift down and then kick hard into warp nine. Yeah! Come back fighting! whooey!
RIKER: Can we do it, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Ask me after it's done, sir. I want a slow reverse into drop off over five minutes. We'll show them what this baby can do, sir.
RIKER: Give me everything you've got.
LAFORGE: Aye, aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: In a sudden, abrupt power surge to high warp speed, Captain, we may be able to break loose from that Ferengi forcefield.
PICARD: I wonder what they're thinking over there.
RIKER: They're wondering what we're going to do next.
WORF: I say fight, sir. There's nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy.
PICARD: And nothing shameful in a strategic retreat, either.
LAFORGE: All systems ready, Captain. And communication now restored to Engineering.
PICARD: Excellent, La Forge. Now let's, er, let's throw them off guard. Lieutenant Yar. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: At least we won't begin with weakness. Attention Ferengi starship! This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. In the name of the United Federation of Planets, I demand you return the T9 energy converter you removed from Gamma Tauri Four. Send that in all language forms.
TASHA: All language forms, sir.
PICARD: Sometimes, Riker, the best way to win a fight is not to be there.
RIKER: Yes, sir. He will triumph who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
PICARD: Glad the Academy's still teaches the strategies of Sun Tzu. This delay had better prove out, LaForge.
LAFORGE: Point three hundred milliseconds, sir.
PICARD: Let's blast full power into warp nine. Ready?
LAFORGE: On your command, Captain.
PICARD: On a count of three. Stand by on phasers. One, set warp to nine. Two, divert shield power to the main engines. Three.
PICARD: Merde. Shields up.
DATA: Captain, I think you had better see this.
PICARD: What's wrong?
DATA: Someone is reading every file, every bit of information stored in the Enterprise memory banks.
LAFORGE: They can do that?
DATA: And more, perhaps.
TROI: Captain, if I may recommend? With our attention on the Ferengi vessel, we have ignored the planet.
PICARD: Data, consult the charts on this planet. See what we've got on it. Conference evaluation.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: So, while we still have some power left, it is time for difficult decisions. Opinions please.
TASHA: I say put all available power into a full-out combined phaser and photon torpedo salvo. Destroy their ability to sustain this forcefield, sir.
WORF: Yes! Hit them hard and hit them fast.
PICARD: Impractical and provocative. Even assuming that we have the power to sustain such a tactic.
TASHA: But Captain, isn't firing on us an act of war?
TROI: The facts are the Ferengis did fire at us, but we were chasing them. Since then, all they've done is searched our computers, trying to learn who and what we are.
PICARD: Your point, Counselor?
TROI: Let's talk to them.
PICARD: It's been tried. No response.
TROI: But did we tell them anything they wanted to hear?
PICARD: La Forge? Other opinions? Thank you for your advice.
PICARD: Will? I haven't had your assessment.
RIKER: I believe we've covered every available alternatives, Captain. Are there other options that you want to analyze?
PICARD: The only one remaining is the one that needs no conversation. The only one we must avoid.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The one that leads to total annihilation.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
DATA: Open, sir.
PICARD: Attention, Ferengi starship. This is Captain Picard. It is obvious that we are in a situation here which needs resolving, and we are willing to do whatever is required, whatever is necessary. I would like, I would request, that you present your terms to us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41386.5. It is with a heavy heart that I have offered to meet whatever reasonable and necessary terms are demanded by the Ferengi. I fear for my people and my vessel in the event the unknown Ferengi ask the unreasonable. How can I oppose even unreasonable demands?

[Bridge]
RIKER: It's moving, sir.
WORF: We ask to surrender and now they fire on us?
TASHA: Ready torpedoes, sir? We have enough power for a few of them.
PICARD: Ready, but hold on ready. Open hailing frequencies.
DATA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Ferengi vessel, we are awaiting your response.
TASHA: Suggest first strike, sir. Our shields now only have sixty three seconds of power left before lowering.
WORF: If the Ferengi ship's sensors can read us, sir, they will be waiting until we are most vulnerable.
RIKER: I'm afraid I agree, Captain. They have not responded.
PICARD: We'll wait a bit more, Number One.
TASHA: Fifty seconds.
PICARD: Patience. Patience.
TARR (voiceover): The quicker we can come to terms, the better, NCC 1701-D.
PICARD: Who is speaking?
TARR: I am Tarr. DaiMon of the Ferengi. You wish to discuss surrender, Captain Picard?
PICARD: What I said, DaiMon Tarr, is
TARR (voiceover): Unconditional surrender, I warn you, is totally unacceptable! We will die to the last one of us before such dishonor!
TASHA: Hailing frequencies closed, sir.
PICARD: Something has seized their ship too. They're in the same predicament as us. Launch a sensor probe. Set it to search for the source of whatever this something is that is holding both ships. Go back to hailing frequency, fast. And I regret, DaiMon Tarr, that I can no longer negotiate unless it is conducted visually.
TARR (voiceover): Your complete message not received, Enterprise, but visual communication is against our custom.
PICARD: And it is against Starfleet orders to accept a surrender otherwise. Do you withdraw your surrender?
TARR (voiceover): You give us no choice, Enterprise. May we have a visual on you as well?
PICARD: Agreed, DaiMon Tarr. You should be able to view us now. Are we on your screen?
TARR (screen): Yes. The ugliness of the human was not an exaggeration. I do not know how your twisted alien culture has paralyzed our vessel, but I concede your Enterprise is superior. We will return your worthless T9 device and we offer the life of our second officers as required by the Ferengi code.
DATA: Fortunately, Starfleet has no such rules involving our second officers.
TARR: Is this to your satisfaction, Picard Captain?
PICARD: Your offer may be inadequate, but I will discuss it with my staff. Stand by for further communications.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Matthew! Pola! You know this area is off limits. Come on, come on. Boys will be boys, Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant, have you launched the probe?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We should getting those readings soon.
PICARD: Well, if we're not holding the Ferengi and they're not holding us, who the hell is?
LAFORGE: The probe will give us some of those answers, sir.
PICARD: Data, you were going to show us something.
DATA: As requested, Captain, library computer information on this planet. It has been charted only from long range scans. It is Class M, but shows no indications of life forms, sentient or otherwise. However, you may find this of interest. Resolving it into our language.
DATA: The center of a huge space federation, a population of trillions.
PICARD: Trillions? I've never heard the word Tkon before.
DATA: Understandable. It has been extinct six hundred thousand of our of our years. These planets were once outposts of that empire.
PICARD: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: Apologies, Captain. I seem to have reached an odd functional impasse. I am stuck.
PICARD: Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing.
DATA: Yes, sir. That is what I am trying to do, sir, but the solution eludes me.
LAFORGE: My hero.
PICARD: Continue, Commander.
DATA: Intriguing. It describes the Empire as being highly advanced and powerful, and capable of actually moving stars.
RIKER: Stars whose planets are their defense system?
DATA: Correct, sir. Outposts. The planet below was possibly one of them.
TASHA (voiceover): Excuse the interruption, Captain, but this may be worth it. We're now receiving a signal from the probe.
PICARD: We'll take it here.
LAFORGE: Incredible!
RIKER: There's our mysterious something, Captain. It is a forcefield of some kind.
PICARD: Reaching up from the planet surface. Amazing power. Data, what does the legend say about the end of the Tkon Empire?
DATA: Their sun went supernova, sir.
PICARD: Could this planet have escaped that?
DATA: This planet may have been the most distant outpost, sir, but it shows no life form readings.
PICARD: We should take a look at it, Number One. Stand by with an away team.
RIKER: And if the Ferengi also realize the forcefield emanates from the planet, sir?
PICARD: That's a complication. Maybe we should ask them to join us in this.
LAFORGE: Team up with the Ferengi, sir?
PICARD: We've been ordered to learn all we can about them. Do you know a better way?
LAFORGE: Data.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. In orbit of a mysterious planet, whose unexplained forcefield has seized us with a power almost beyond imagination. If there is a solution to this, it almost certainly will involve cooperation from the Ferengi.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Ship's power drain is critical, Captain. I must now shut down our shields to maintain life support systems.
PICARD: Understood. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Ferengi vessel from Enterprise, come in.
TARR (screen): Your alien images again shock us.
PICARD: With regard to the surrender, DaiMon Tarr. The facts are somewhat different.
TARR (screen): Our own probe has already shown us your trickery, human. We withdraw our surrender.
PICARD: Agreed. Perhaps you would agree to a more productive relationship?
TARR (screen): I prefer a more profitable one, human.
DATA: Yankee trader.
TARR (screen): Explain what means yankee traders?
LAFORGE: He heard that.
PICARD: He recognizes your interest in profit. Or is that an incorrect assumption?
TARR (screen): We seek only what is equitable. What do you seek? Why did you begin by attacking us?
PICARD: We did not attack you. We gave chase in order to recover a Federation-owned energy device which
TARR (screen): Which we know is ours. Your barbarous Federation placed it on one of our planets!
PICARD: On the contrary, Gamma Tauri Four is recognized by all civilized members of
TARR (screen): The Ferengi are not uncivilized, human! Are you suggesting otherwise?
PICARD: All I'm saying is that you removed something which clearly did not belong to you.
TARR (screen): Are you now calling us thieves?!
PICARD: On the contrary, I have no wish to discuss issues of property or of territory, when our mutual problem remains. Like it or not, we are both trapped by this energy draining forcefield from the planet.
TARR (screen): On that matter there can be no argument.
PICARD: I would like to propose a swap.
TARR (screen): And what is a swap?
PICARD: It's a trade, an exchange.
TARR (screen): Yes, trade, human. What do you offer?
PICARD: We will tell you what we know about the planet, and in trade, you will give us your information.
TARR (screen): Ridiculous. How will we know you will not withhold information?
PICARD: We must trust each other, Tarr.
TARR (screen): Amusing, human. Trust each other?
PICARD: I propose that we test this relationship by cooperating in a joint exploration of the planet surface.
TARR (screen): And what profit is in this, Picard Captain?
PICARD: The profit, DaiMon Tarr, of saving all our lives.
TARR (screen): We will agree, no doubt foolishly. But you are warned that any further trickery on your part will be met with no mercy.
PICARD: Agreed. If you care to join us, we have a well-proven transporter device
TARR (screen): We have a matter-energy device of our own. We will beam a science team of three to whatever co-ordinates you propose.
PICARD: Excellent. We will transmit the information shortly. Enterprise out.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies off.
PICARD: I would log that agreement as promising, at least.
RIKER: I wonder, Captain. I'm not usually one for distrust at first sight, but this may be an exception.
DATA: Especially in view of the fact the image he transmitted, sir, was somehow distorted.
TROI: I sensed the same thing, Captain. He's hiding something.
RIKER: With this power drain we can't delay. Now, I'd like some additional help in case we run into trouble. Can you spare Worf?
PICARD: Take him. And be careful, Number One.

[Transporter room]
DATA: With this power drain, we may have trouble communicating with the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: Understood. Anything else?
DATA: Due to this forcefield, there is presently no way to beam us back, sir.
LAFORGE: You had to ask.
RIKER: Understood. Energize.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Tasha? Data? Geordi? Worf? Anybody?!
RIKER: Data?
RIKER: What are you doing up there?
DATA: Most intriguing, sir. I assume a problem of inaccurately transmitted program coordinates due to the force field around the ship, sir. Are we alone, sir?
RIKER: Unfortunately. Let's find the others. What do you make of these?
DATA: Crystalline. Mostly inert. Nothing to write home about.
RIKER: Excuse me?
DATA: Slang, sir. I did use it correctly, did I not?
RIKER: They've got to be around here somewhere.
RIKER: What's that?
DATA: What?
RIKER: That! Geordi!
RIKER: Are you conscious?
LAFORGE: Do I look conscious?
RIKER: What are you doing?
LAFORGE: I'm resting, sir. My foot's stuck. Up there. I materialized upside down above the planet surface.
DATA: Tricorder's useless, sir. Communication's gone too. Fortunately you did not break any
LAFORGE: Data, who's that?
RIKER: Who are you?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It is now six hours since our away team beamed down to the planet surface. On the Enterprise, our condition is rapidly worsening. Ordinarily, with reserve power alone, we could maintain life support for several months. But the force holding has closed down all engines and is draining our reserve power too.

[Recreation lounge]
TROI: It's getting much, much colder, sir. How far down is it likely to go?
PICARD: A lot. Even in orbital space it'll get below minus two hundred degrees.
CRUSHER: We won't have to worry much past minus seventy or so.
PICARD: Feels like that right now. Good. Thank you.

[Planet surface]
LETEK: If he moves, kill him.
MORDOC: Letek, has what we've done broken our agreement with their captain?
LETEK: We will accuse the humans of preparing to ambush us. It will be our word against theirs and who is more trustworthy, Mordoc? It looks like gold. Tastes like gold.
RIKER: It is gold.
LETEK: Accursed planet!
RIKER: It's nothing compared to what our Captain will do when he finds out you've broken our landing party agreement.
LETEK: What part of the agreement? You appeared and attacked us. Are you one of their assassins?
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker, First Officer of the USS Enterprise. You have a lot to learn.
RIKER: I've got this one!
DATA: Careful, Commander, they're much stronger than
WORF: Pygmy cretins!
LETEK: Kill them.
MORDOC: Hideous monsters!
TASHA: No! Good, you've heard of phasers. Now, over there.
MORDOC: Is this a female?
KAYRON: A human female, Letek?
LETEK: Yes, it is true. You work with females, arm them, and force them to wear clothing.
MORDOC: Sickening.

[Recreation lounge]
PICARD: I've diverted the reserve power to the family decks. They'll last longest. Is there anything else we can do, Doctor? Where's Wesley?
CRUSHER: He's in our quarters. I was tempted to give him a sedative.
PICARD: You shouldn't.
CRUSHER: I know, but he's my son. I love him.
PICARD: He has the right to meet death awake.
CRUSHER: Is that a male perspective?
PICARD: Rubbish

[Planet surface]
TASHA: Hold it right there! Stop. Stop!
RIKER: Phasers on stun.
TASHA: Already set.
TASHA: What's going on?
LETEK: What is this?
DATA: I believe we can deduce that these crystalline tree shapes are actually energy collectors.
RIKER: Along the same principle as that which is draining energy from our ships.
LAFORGE: But the Ferengi weapons were working when we first arrived.
TASHA: Which means something new has happened.
LAFORGE: I'm finally beginning to understand what my eyes have been showing me. It's patterns of force everywhere. This entire planet has been turned into a power accumulator.
RIKER: And these?
LAFORGE: It's the whole point of this place. I can see the planet's power emanating from. Commander.
PORTAL: Be you barbarians? Speak!
PORTAL: Who meets the challenge? Who will it be?
LETEK: Him.
PORTAL: You have awakened Portal six three. Do you petition to enter the Empire?
RIKER: Who asks the question?
PORTAL: A guardian of the Tkon Empire.
PORTAL: Biped. Excellent.
RIKER: Why should we petition to entry to an empire that no longer exists?
PORTAL: Why do you attempt deception? The Empire is forever.
RIKER: Your empire fell prey to a supernova.
PORTAL: We are forever.
RIKER: Data, Please repeat the file.
DATA: It is a matter of record, Portal. In the Age of Makto, the central star of the Tkon Empire destabilized and
PORTAL: There has never been an Age of Makto.
DATA: In fact, there have been many ages which have come and passed since Makto.
PORTAL: This is the Age of Bastu!
DATA: I'm afraid not. According to the Tkon use of galactic motionary startime charts, after Bastu came Cimi, Xora, Makto
PORTAL: Enough! Absurdities!
RIKER: You must have been asleep, Portal, for hundreds of thousands of our years.
LETEK: Deception is the way of the human. We Ferengi will gladly make a petition.
RIKER: We invite your petition.
PORTAL: Speak.
LETEK: We wish to offer our services to serve the Tkon Empire at no profit. Return control of our starship to us and we will happily destroy the human criminals and their vessel which attacked us without provocation. They came to loot your empire, but we intercepted them.
PORTAL: You are accused of deceit and treachery. Do you give yourself up for judgment?
RIKER: Yes. If you believe those accusations, then you certainly should act on them.
LETEK: And there is even more. We can prove that the humans are destroyers of legal commerce, and that they selfishly withhold vital technology from backward worlds.
MORDOC: And necessary defensive weapons, too. We Ferengi now challenge this human madness.
RIKER: I admit we withheld modern technology from some worlds.
KAYRON: You see? They are demented. Their values are insane. You cannot believe the business opportunities they have destroyed.
LETEK: Proof of their barbarism. They adorn themselves with gold, a despicable use of a valuable metal. And they shamelessly clothe their females.
MORDOC: Inviting others to unclothe them. The very depth of perversion.
TASHA: Paws off, Ferengi.
MORDOC: No female, human or Ferengi, can order Mordoc around! Submit!
TASHA: Just try it, shorty.
RIKER: At ease, Lieutenant!
RIKER: And we still have more faults
DATA: They should add that Starfleet has permitted several civilizations to fall. We have at times allowed the strong and violent to overcome the weak.
LETEK: They admit their crimes! Hear them! They admit the evil that they do!
PORTAL: Barbarian!
LETEK: Yes, you show wisdom.
PORTAL: Barbarians all! But this one first, in the fashion the Empire has always challenged savages.
WORF: No! For battle, come to me!
RIKER: No! That's an order.
PORTAL: You have a single chance for life. One only. What is the answer to my challenge? I offer a thought. He will triumph who knows when to fight and when not to fight. You are being tested, Riker! What is the answer?
RIKER: How do you know my name?
PORTAL: Ahhh. You are facing fate with composure. But what is the answer to my challenge?
RIKER: Fear is the true enemy, the only enemy.
PORTAL: Unlike these little ones who close their minds, your mind holds interesting thoughts. Know your enemy and know yourself, and you will always be victorious. Why that thought? And who is this Sun Tzu you revere?
RIKER: An old Chinese philosopher from ancient Earth history.
PORTAL: You must tell me more of this wisdom, so much like our own.
RIKER: Gladly. But first our starship. Can you release it?
PORTAL: It is released. All power is restored.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Not a moment too soon, Jean. I mean, Captain.

[Planet surface]
PORTAL: I admit I had my doubts as your ships battled each other in overt acts of belligerence. Normally, I would have destroyed all of you and your ships, but something confused me.
RIKER: Which was?
PORTAL: First, you wanted to murder each other. Then you were willing to help each other.
LETEK: What of our vessel? We knew the same answer.
MORDOC: The truth is, I gave those words to this human.
PORTAL: What of them? Shall I destroy them?
RIKER: Then they would learn nothing.
PORTAL: A most interesting conclusion. But what if they will never learn, Riker?
RIKER: Is this a test also?
PORTAL: In life, one is always tested.
RIKER: I find them very much as we were a several hundred years ago, but possessing the technology they have now, they're very dangerous .
KAYRON: Untrue. We seek friendship with you.
RIKER: But we can hardly hate what we once were. They may grow and learn.
PORTAL: And learn ways to destroy you.
RIKER: Our values require us to face that possibility. What of you, with your empire gone?
PORTAL: The universe exists to me to create life. I shall sleep, until needed again.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Compliments, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Thank you.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: You've done well.
DATA: Something to write home about.
LAFORGE: Something to write home about? Data, that's very human.
RIKER: The T9 energy converter has been beamed aboard and secured, sir. The Ferengi complained bitterly, but one final roar from Portal convinced them.
PICARD: I commend your performance, Number One.
RIKER: One final request, sir. Permission to beam a box of Data's Chinese finger puzzles over to the Ferengi. A thank you for all they tried to do.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41249.3. We have orbited the two major planets of the Beta Renner system taking aboard delegates from those two worlds. Since achieving space flight, their major life forms, the Anticans and the Selay have become deadly enemies. But both have also applied for admission into our Federation. We are to deliver these delegates to this sector's neutral conference planet, called Parliament, in the hope their dispute can be resolved.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard. Welcome aboard. We hope your journey will be pleasant and comfortable. Arranging that will be my First Officer, Commander Riker.
RIKER: Welcome aboard. If you'll follow me I will show you the accommodations that we've
SELAY: We can already smell the Anticans. They were taken aboard first?
PICARD: Only because their world was the first on this heading to Parliament.
SELAY: Will our quarters be near the Anticans?
RIKER: About one hundred meters apart.
PICARD: Is that all right?
SELAY: No. Unsatisfactory.
RIKER: I believe we can accommodate your wishes. We'll rearrange the suite assignments. If you'll follow me.
SELAY: And we must be upwind from the Anticans.
RIKER: Of course, sir.
TASHA: Neither seem like very promising Federation candidates, sir.
PICARD: Even Parliament's peacemakers may find this case a little difficult.

[Bridge]
PICARD: But do you understand the basis of all this nonsense between them?
RIKER: No sir. I didn't understand that kind of hostility even when I studied Earth history.
PICARD: Really? Oh, yes, well these life forms feel such passionate hatred matters of custom, God concepts, even, strangely enough, economic systems
DATA: Sir, my sensors are picking up an unusual energy object ahead.
PICARD: On screen.
TASHA: Confirmed, sir. My sensors read nothing solid but considerable energy in changing patterns.
DATA: Also traveling at warp speed, sir. Intriguing. I can find no match with anything in our records, sir.
PICARD: Change course to make a close sensor pass. We can then increase warp speed and reach Parliament on schedule.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sensor Maintenance]
LAFORGE: So, Worf, why the interest in this? It's just routine maintenance on the sensor assemblies.
WORF: Simple, Geordi. Our Captain wants his junior officers to learn, learn, learn.
LAFORGE: Not just the junior ones. Okay, you hold this relay offline while I adjust these sensor circuits.
TASHA (voiceover): Security to Sensor Maintenance.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant La Forge here.

[Bridge]
TASHA: We're making a close sensor pass on an unusual object, Geordi. Any problems?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Not at all, Lieutenant. All equipment on line and functioning.
TASHA: Sensors ready, sir.
PICARD: Life form reading?
DATA: No life form reading, sir.
PICARD: Begin the pass.
DATA: Sir, it is changing shape.
PICARD: Any readings of matter there?
DATA: Negative, Captain. Energy only.

[Sensor Maintenance]
LAFORGE: Worf! La Forge to Sickbay. We havd a medical emergency in sensor maintenance. I repeat, this is a medical emergency.
CRUSHER: What happened?
LAFORGE: I don't know. He got hit by some sensor feedback, maybe.
LAFORGE: You got it, Doc?
CRUSHER: I got it. Lieutenant Worf, can you hear what I'm saying? Let's get him up.
LAFORGE: Okay. Come on, big guy. On your feet. Here we go. That's it.
CRUSHER: Are you okay?

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: He was just monitoring the sensor console when he jerked as though something hit him. What my sensors showed was a glow, just for a second. I can't explain it.
PICARD: Could your Visor device have malfunctioned?
LAFORGE: I doubt it, sir. It seemed what I was seeing was something real.

[Antican quarters]
TASHA: Sorry to call you, sir. Not strictly security. It's about the dietary requirements of the Antican delegates.
RIKER: I thought that had been taken care of in advance, Tasha.
TASHA: So did we, sir. Their live animals were beamed aboard. We were going to preserve the meat for them, but they say we must bring it to them alive.
RIKER: Then do so. Lieutenant Yar was confused. We no longer enslave animals for food purposes.
ANTICAN: But we have seen humans eat meat.
RIKER: You've seen something as fresh and tasty as meat, but inorganically materialized out of patterns used by our transporters.
ANTICAN: This is sickening. It's barbaric.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's reading normal now. How did you manage that?
CRUSHER: Yes. Normal.
TROI: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: Yes, perfectly. Both of us. Quite normal now.
WORF: What? Where am I?
TROI: Don't you remember? You were in the sensor maintenance room.
WORF: I remember monitoring the sensor console. What am I doing here?
TROI: That's a story the Doctor will tell you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Obviously you feel it's something we should look at more carefully.
DATA: A mystery is only a mystery as long as it remains uninvestigated, sir.
PICARD: I love a mystery, Data, but this one will have to to wait until we deliver the delegates to their peace conference on Parliament. Time and tide, Lieutenant La Forge. Go to warp eight.
LAFORGE: Warp eight, sir.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: Him Mom. You're back early.
CRUSHER: Yes.
WESLEY: Physical sciences class. We're studying Doctor Channing's theory on dilithium crystals.
CRUSHER: Tell me about it.
WESLEY: Really? You never seemed that interested in warp theory before. Doctor Channing thinks it's possible to force dilithium into even more useful crystals. If as shown here, matter and antimatter could be aligned even more efficiently
CRUSHER: Would that affect navigation?
WESLEY: This is engineering, not helm control.
CRUSHER: Oh yes, the helm's located on the Bridge.
WESLEY: Mom, is something wrong?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: This is the helm.
LAFORGE: Unless there have been some changes I don't know about.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher?
CRUSHER: You will wish to know Lieutenant Worf is much improved. Ready to return to duty.
PICARD: What was the diagnosis?
CRUSHER: A temporary mental aberration.
PICARD: Doctor, when such a diagnosis concerns a bridge officer, I expect a better explanation.
CRUSHER: Then I will first have to run some crosschecks on the library computer. Klingons are so unusual in their reactions, aren't they?
PICARD: Use Science Station two, Doctor.
DATA: Intriguing, Doctor. What does helm control have to do with medical crosschecks?
CRUSHER: Why am I?
DATA: Is something wrong, Doctor?
PICARD: Doctor, are you all right?
CRUSHER: Yes. Yes. I'll do my work in my office. That's where I should be.
PICARD: Do you want someone to accompany you?
DATA: Captain? There is a malfunction in this station. I cannot bring any information up on it. Science two does not function either, sir.
SINGH (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Picard.

[Engineering]
SINGH: We have something wrong with warp drive circuitry, sir.

[Bridge]
CHIEF (voiceover): Transporter room six to Bridge. Reporting transporter console malfunction, sir.
PICARD: Data, this ship is less than a year out of Spacedock. What are the chances of this occurring?
DATA: It is a virtual impossibility, sir.
PICARD: So what the hell is going on here?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: And you are telling me there are no explanations for these malfunctions?
RIKER: At least, sir, all the department heads have reported the damage repaired.
PICARD: That was not my question, Number One. What caused the malfunctions?
SINGH: I believe it was a rampant electronic short that jumped from system to system, sir. But the only thing is, er
PICARD: Yes, Mister Singh?
SINGH: That shouldn't be possible. The affected systems don't generally interact with each other. And where they do, it wasn't an interlink that was malfunctioning.
PICARD: Have you spoken with Chief Engineer Argyle about this problem?
SINGH: With all the Engineering staff, sir. They're just as puzzled.
PICARD: Well, I'm not satisfied. I want an explanation of this by the time we reach Parliament.
SINGH: But, sir.
PICARD: By the time we reach Parliament, Mister Singh.

[Antican quarters]
RIKER: These weapons were taken from two of your people who were loitering out of sight in the vicinity of the Selay delegation quarters. Would you care to explain, sir?
ANTICAN: These are not weapons, First Officer. They are tools. We use these to dispatch the animals we consume.
TASHA: Your food supply is not on the same deck as the Selay delegation, sir.
RIKER: And you have to admit that these could kill.
ANTICAN: I admit some of my people are impulsive. and we all have reason to hate the Selay.
TASHA: They appear to have the same feelings about you, sir.
ANTICAN: The nature of politics.
RIKER: Nevertheless, Chief Delegate, you're on notice that all of your weapons, no matter what their basic function, are being confiscated. Violence will not be tolerated on the Enterprise.
ANTICAN: Of course not. And if any does occur, let me assure you it will not be we Anticans who start it.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.
ANTICAN: But we will finish it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, warp power is fading.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Engineer's office]
PICARD (voiceover): What is the problem?
SINGH: We have lost the warp engine computer tie.

[Bridge]
WORF: Warp five, four, three, two
PICARD: State of the art vessel? Data, signal Parliament we'll be delayed. We will send a new arrival time as soon as it is determined.
DATA: Sir, subspace radio is out.

[Ready room]
PICARD: All right, gentlemen, your theories on this sudden vulnerability of these systems.
DATA: If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would have left Spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not endemic to the ship, but are the result of the actions of an unknown adversary.
RIKER: We have a saboteur aboard.
DATA: I believe I said that.
PICARD: Gentlemen. The question is, who? I can't believe it's one of our people.
RIKER: Agreed. It must be someone from either alien delegation. Now, if the Ferengi could have bought or bribed even one of them, that's all that they'd need.
DATA: Ferengi contacts have been detected on both Selay and Antica, sir.
PICARD: Can any of you suggest any other suspects?
RIKER: You're sounding like a private eye, sir.
DATA: Inquiry. Private eye?
PICARD: A private consulting investigator, Data, who solves crimes.
DATA: A most interesting occupation.
PICARD: In the world of fact, probably not. However, in literature, criminal detection can be a fascinating exercise. The immortal Sherlock Holmes would have an interesting view of our mystery, I believe.
RIKER: But I'm afraid we're going to have to find our solution without history's greatest Consulting Detective.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: How about here, Mister Singh? If the control network breaks at this point
SINGH: It bleeds warp engine commands off into dead ends. Excellent. I believe I can handle it from here, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: But, sir
SINGH: You are scheduled for class work now. Sorry.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. But I don't learn nearly this much in school.
SINGH: I tend to agree, but the captain's orders on this are very clear.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Hi. Solve any new problems today?
WESLEY: I was starting to, maybe. Mister Singh sent me off to class.
CRUSHER: Wes, you're only an acting ensign. You've got to let the commissioned officers do some of the work.
WESLEY: Mom, I've learned a more than they understand. For example, the Channing's dilithium crystals theory I was telling you about?
CRUSHER: When were you telling me about that?
WESLEY: This morning. Don't you remember?
CRUSHER: Honestly, I don't remember.

[Engineering]
WORF: Engineering to Captain Picard. Security alert.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard.
WORF: Lieutenant Worf, sir. I just found Mister Singh. He's dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41249.4. I've ordered an immediate investigation into the death of Assistant Chief Engineer Singh. We continue to run on impulse power.

[Engineer's office]
WESLEY: He could have been working there, restoring warp power.
LAFORGE: According to these readings, we could go back to warp speed now.
WESLEY: Those aren't the same readings as when I left.
WORF: Singh probably repaired it just before he was killed.
WESLEY: He couldn't have repaired, sir. The problems were inside the engine.
LAFORGE: Who else could have corrected it, Wes? Inform the bridge of engine status.
WORF: Engineering to Bridge. We now have warp capacity, sir. All power on line.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well done. Warp engines ready on previous heading. Warp factor six.

[Antican quarters]
ANTICAN: I tolerate these questions, Lieutenant Yar, because I need this vessel to get us to Parliament. Your shipboard problems do not concern me.
TASHA: They should. Our delays are your delays.
ANTICAN: The peace conference will wait for us.
TASHA: I must ask where you were during this vessel's Earth hours of eighteen hundred last night and zero seven hundred this morning.
ANTICAN: Eating.
TASHA: Sir, we're talking about hours here.
ANTICAN: It was a large meal, Lieutenant Yar. And a very interesting animal.

[Crusher's office]
WORF: You wanted me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, concerning your memory blackout.
WORF: I still don't remember having one.
CRUSHER: The same thing happened to me.
TROI: I want to try hypnosis on both of you. It may restore your memory as to what happened.

[Observation lounge]
TASHA: One thing is clear. Almost all of the peace delegates answered our questions with lies.
DATA: Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted certain truths, which in itself tells us something.
TASHA: We can learn something from non-disclosure?
DATA: Indubitably, my good woman.
RIKER: It's something the Captain mentioned. Sherlock Holmes. Indubitably, Data has been studying him.
DATA: Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out, during the time in question, something was afoot.
TASHA: Afoot?
DATA: While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our crew locator sensed them passing here and here.
TASHA: But since it doesn't show where they went, we're still in the dark.
DATA: On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew medical supplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and abrasions on these life forms.
RIKER: Which, leaves us with only one conclusion.
DATA: Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have disabled our ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd rather kill each other than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker. Sir.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Beverly, can you hear me?
CRUSHER: Yes.
TROI: I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first recall this sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it occurred.
CRUSHER: He's lying on the hospital bed sedated. I'm walking up to him. I.
TROI: How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take the specimen?
CRUSHER: I feel someone else. There's someone else who's there. Not alone. Get out. Get out of my mind.
TROI: That's almost exactly what you said. As though there was something else inside you.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Which confirms the feeling of duality that I sensed earlier in both of them.
PICARD: Why didn't you report it?
TROI: Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we Betazeds feel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a decision and ask yourself which way to go, who are you talking to?
PICARD: Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality?
TROI: Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them.
CRUSHER: It seems the only possible conclusion.
PICARD: Data, let's proceed without the pipe.
DATA: Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it as incontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew?
PICARD: Yes. Very unlikely.
DATA: Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated both the delegates and the ship's regular complement.
PICARD: Data, what are you suggesting?
DATA: I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we must fall back on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: That engine computer net wasn't repaired, sir. It just suddenly became all right.
LAFORGE: Sometimes it's the result that counts, you know. What the? Oh, no.
WORF: What is it?
LAFORGE: Helm control just went down. She won't respond.
WORF: Bridge to Captain. You're needed here immediately.
LAFORGE: Wes, alert Engineering from your panel, alright?
WESLEY: I'm trying.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Helm is down, sir. There's no apparent reason.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've just dropped to impulse power.
LAFORGE: Sir, are you all right? I thought I just saw
PICARD: I'm fine. Everything is fine now. Why the drop to impulse power, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: The helm is suddenly malfunctioning, sir.
PICARD: Malfunctioning? You're wrong. Look again.
LAFORGE: Sir, I was just
RIKER: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing wrong with it now, sir. Everything is just as it should be.
PICARD: In that case, make our heading nine two five mark three seven.
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: You have a problem with that heading, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: You want to double back on our course, sir?
PICARD: Isn't that what I ordered?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Sir, I'm puzzled about your reversing our course.
PICARD: That energy cloud, Commander. I believe it important we have another look at it.
RIKER: But we're behind schedule for Parliament already.
PICARD: I believe a very important scientific discovery awaits us on this heading.
TROI: Perhaps you'd like to share your reasoning on that, sir?
DATA: Yes, since we obtained only minimal information on our sensor pass of it.
PICARD: Right, Data. We must go back to learn more. Counselor, do you believe a ship Captain should explain every order?
TROI: Of course not, sir.

[Corridor]
ANTICAN: I demand to see the Captain.
O'BRIEN: Stop! Return to your quarters.
SELAY: What is that doing on our deck?
ANTICAN: I demand to know why this starship has changed its course!
O'BRIEN: Please, return to your quarters, delegates!

[Riker's quarters]
DATA: A mere change of direction hardly justifies mutiny.
CRUSHER: Exactly what do you believe you're sensing from him?
TROI: It's just a feeling that he's, well, that he's closed part of his mind to me. I just feel that the Captain has become, perhaps dangerous.
RIKER: If he's dangerous. If.
LAFORGE: Then he'd have to be relieved of command. Which you could do, Doctor, but it's beaucoup trouble if you're wrong.
DATA: And at the moment it is all pure speculation. He has done nothing to subject the Enterprise to danger.
CRUSHER: I'd need a medical log citing clear evidence of incapacity. You could do it without that problem.
RIKER: Only if all command officers agreed it vital to do so. But he has not been showing any overt unusual behavior.
TROI: Ultimately, I believe he will.
CRUSHER: As second in command, it's still in your corner. I'll order medical and psychiatric exams. You'll have to back me up somehow. First Officer's log, supplemental. After meeting with the senior officers, Doctor Crusher and I decided to approach the Captain regarding his recent behavior.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Yes?
CRUSHER: I'd like you to come to Sickbay for some examinations, Captain.
PICARD: Oh? I'll be glad to do when I'm free.
CRUSHER: I'd like to conduct them now, sir.
PICARD: Why? What can I do for you, Number One?
RIKER: Sir, Counselor Troi has recommended the examinations.
PICARD: Same question. Why?
RIKER: It is my duty to inform the Captain we believe he may be under some kind of alien influence which may constitute a danger to this ship.
PICARD: I consider it equally possible that the two of you, and Counselor Troi, are overworked, and possibly suffering hallucinations. Now this is an order. You will arrange medical and psychiatric exams of both yourself and them. Doctor, are you aware everybody is behaving strangely?
CRUSHER: I'm concerned that you've suddenly turned the ship away from it's course.
PICARD: What's happened to your mind, Doctor? The search for knowledge is always our primary mission. I'm sorry, I really am too busy for this kind of nonsense. Do I have to call Security to force you to report to the Sickbay?
CRUSHER: No, sir.

[Corridor]
RIKER: What the hell?
SELAY: Sorry. Wrong species.
RIKER: Riker to Security Chief.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Yar here.
RIKER (voiceover): Security guard to the Engineering deck.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Selays are playing hide and seek down here, obviously with the Anticans. It's a lethal game. I want them returned to their quarters under guard.
TASHA (voiceover): Right away, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: What do you want?
CRUSHER: Here are the results from the exams you ordered, sir. You don't care to inspect them? Please, are you Jean-Luc?
PICARD: He is here.
CRUSHER: The Jean-Luc I know?
PICARD: And more.
CRUSHER: The more frightens me.
PICARD: And elates us. We wish you could understand the glorious adventure ahead.
CRUSHER: You and?
PICARD: Soon we'll both be home. First officer's log, supplemental. On the orders of Captain Picard, we have returned to the vicinity of the energy pattern cloud. I am personally convinced that something from this cloud now shares the Captain's mind. But there seems to be nothing we can do, at least within regulations.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're now approaching the cloud, sir.
RIKER: Very well, Mister La Forge. Bring us to within ten thousand kilometers and hold us there.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Shall we begin the scientific tests you wanted, sir?
PICARD: Oh, they're already underway. I have an announcement for the entire Bridge. As many of you suspected, when our ship passed through the edge of this, it accidentally carried away a sentient being. Much like these energy patterns we're seeing here. A terrifying experience for any intelligent being. As if a great claw had reached down and scooped one of you from your home world. Drawn into the energy circuits of this vessel, it found its way to you, Worf. Frantic at being carried from its home world, and recognizing you as sentient beings, it pleaded for help, but in ways you couldn't understand. Desperately going from person to person, and then discovering the computer intelligence in this ship's memory circuits. Oh, simplistic intelligence, but it furnished it enough to slow this Enterprise thing that had captured it. And it very much regrets the accidental death of Engineer Singh.
TROI: Captain, do you exist in combination with this entity?
RIKER: Is it in control of you, sir?
PICARD: Very soon after we combined we had learned much about each other. A passion for exploration, for the unknown. We found we had similar dreams, and it offered your Captain a way to realize them beyond human expectations.
RIKER: Captain, I must speak to you privately now.
DATA: I understand. As an energy pattern, free of the limitations of matter, he might travel anywhere, at any velocity.
RIKER: Captain, do you hear me?
DATA: Sir, I see no way for you to journey with an energy form.
PICARD: Isn't there?
TROI: He's planning to beam himself and the entity into that cloud.
PICARD: The transporter need not pattern your Captain into matter. We'll beam energy only, and we will become a combined energy pattern of our life forms. A resignation from this command and from Starfleet has been appropriately recorded.
RIKER: I refuse to allow this, sir.
PICARD: How does this resignation threaten the ship and its crew in any way?
CRUSHER: Captain Picard, you are now relieved from duty. I judge you to be disabled and mentally incapacitated.
RIKER: Security! Red Alert! Restrain the Captain!
TASHA: Where is he?
TROI: This is blinding me.
WORF: Captain! I'll help you if you'll let me.
RIKER: Someone restrain the Captain!

[Transporter room]

[Bridge]
TASHA: The Transporter Chief has no idea what the coordinates were, sir.
LAFORGE: So he's just floating around out there? How can we settle for that?
RIKER: Give me a choice then.
DATA: Still no readings, no sign of anything.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, it's time to set a course for Parliament. Warp eight.
LAFORGE: We're really leaving him?
TROI: Commander, wait! It's the Captain. But only the Captain. He's out there alone!
RIKER: The entity, has it abandoned him?
TROI: No, but the combination wasn't possible out there. He's in trouble, sir. We have to beam him back.
RIKER: Beam him back as what? He's nothing but energy now.
DATA: Sir, the entity was caught in the ship's circuitry. The Captain might try to get in the same way if he's in trouble.
RIKER: Bring us in closer, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Moving in, sir, but where?
RIKER: There's no way to know. Let's hope he can come part way himself. Troi, is there any way you can get a message to him?
TROI: I wish I could.
LAFORGE: Sensors monitoring the perimeter, ship's circuitry, sir. Nothing.
RIKER: Bring us right into the edge of it, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Sir? On my sensor controls.
TROI: There's something's here. I feel it.
DATA: Just as before, going to Worf first.
LAFORGE: Something crazy on my panel. Commander Riker. Static?
RIKER: P for Picard!
DATA: He's in the ship's circuitry. Come to the Transporter room, please. There might be a way, sir. Hurry!

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Is it a wild theory, Data?
DATA: I knew we had to have the Captain's physical pattern here, sir. He was the last one to beam out.
RIKER: Is what you're thinking possible?
DATA: Unknown at this time, sir. I hope the Captain remembers his physical pattern is here. If he has, his energy has moved into the transporter relays by now.
RIKER: I wish we had some sign that he's in here. I guess we have no choice but to risk it.
DATA: Energizing, sir.
PICARD: What the devil am I doing here?
RIKER: Sounds like our Captain.
TROI: But confused. This Picard pattern was formed before he went out there.
PICARD: What's happening to me, Number One? I was preparing to beam out to somewhere. And I remember there was talk of an entity? But it all seems so vague.
DATA: I believe the Captain is now his separate self, sir. Much of what happened is naturally missing.
PICARD: What are you talking about, Data? Is this still Sherlock Holmes?
DATA: Indubitably, sir, Indubitably.
PICARD: Well, at least you got rid of the damn pipe.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher asked me to steer you past Sickbay. She said you've been looking very tired.
TASHA: Captain!
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Sorry, Commander, but Security Team Two reports they've discovered a puddle of blood outside the Selay Quarters and they can't find one of the delegates and so
RIKER: Lieutenant. This couldn't have waited a moment?
TASHA: It's good to see you, sir. The problem is that one of the cooks has just been asked to broil reptile for the Anticans, and it looks like the Selay delegate.
PICARD: Riker, with the peace delegates and all, I think I do need a rest. Take charge, Number One.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41255.6. After delivering a party of Earth colonists to the Strnad solar system, we have discovered another Class M planet in the adjoining Rubicun star system. We are now in orbit there, having determined it to be inhabited as well as unusually lovely. My first officer has taken an away team down to make contact and they are in the process of returning to the ship.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Riker says the planet's life forms are almost identical to us.
TROI: He's very enthusiastic.
CRUSHER: Captain? Sorry, Troi.
TROI: The Doctor has something very important to tell you, Captain.
PICARD: You've been talking about it for days. Shore leave for the crew.
CRUSHER: Establishing that colony has been exhausting for the entire crew, Captain. We're not a supply vessel. Settling all those people has been a strain on everyone. I'm tired myself.
PICARD: Is it as good as your report suggests, Number One?
RIKER: As per report, sir. Class M, Earth-like, beautiful. It will startle you.
CRUSHER: It sounds wonderful for the children. The holodecks are marvelous, of course, but there's nothing like open spaces and fresh air.
TASHA: I've listed my report on their customs and laws, sir. Fairly simple, common sense things.
LAFORGE: They're wild in some ways, actually puritanical in others. Neat as pins, ultra-lawful, and make love at the drop of a hat.
TASHA: Any hat.
PICARD: But the happiest report has its negatives. Let's start with them, Number One.
RIKER: There are none, sir. Not that any of us can find.
DATA: But there is a problem here, sir.
WORF: It's the faulty reading I reported, sir.
DATA: I'm reading something off the starboard bow, but there is nothing there.
TASHA: Sensor technicians are working on it, sir. They've identified it as a glitch in the system.
PICARD: I take it you find no glitch at all in this planet, however?
RIKER: No, sir.
TASHA: If you approve shore leave, sir, we could start with a small group.
PICARD: Of course. Wesley? If we go down, I'd like you to join the away team to evaluate this world as a place for young people to relax.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: If our scans and observations confirm the report, of course I'll approve it. Let's hope it is not too good to be true.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit of a planet designated Rubicun Three, the home of a life form who call themselves the Edo. Our away team, including Wesley Crusher, has beamed down to make arrangements concerning some well-deserved recreation.

[Planet surface]
WORF: Careful, sir.
RIKER: No, it's all right, Lieutenant. Those are the Edo we met before. They certainly are fit.
TROI: They certainly are.
RIVAN: Health and happiness.
LIATOR: A pleasant day to you.
RIVAN: You did return as promised.
RIKER: Rivan, Liator. Also from our vessel, Troi.
LIATOR: Slowly, slowly. I must also welcome this lovely one.
LIATOR: Nice to see you again.
TASHA: My pleasure.
RIKER: Counselor?
TROI: Healthy sensuality, sir. I feel mainly friendship, and happiness.
RIVAN: And I welcome this huge one. Oh, yes.
WORF: Nice planet.
RIKER: Yeah.
RIVAN: But you are a young one. I do not know your custom regarding love.
WESLEY: Er. I guess, whatever you usually do.
RIKER: There are others who would like to visit here, if you would give us a limit on the numbers.
LIATOR: Whatever pleases you. We can discuss it at the Council Chambers.
RIVAN: Shall we go there now or remain in play?
RIKER: Play?
RIVAN: At love. Unless you don't enjoy that. Perhaps you do?
LIATOR: And you? Yes, I can see that you do.
WESLEY: Maybe I should just go on ahead.
RIVAN: Oh, this is unfair to him. We'll go to the Council Chambers. You'll find young people your age there.
WESLEY: Well, I can't make any promises.
LIATOR: You don't have to. Our rules are simple. No one does anything uncomfortable to them.
RIVAN: Come! Our people will want to know you.
LIATOR: Rivan, perhaps they can't run.
WESLEY: Can't run? Sure we can run. Right, Commander?
RIKER: That's the custom here, running. Lead the way.
RIKER: When in Rome, eh?
WORF: When in where, sir?
EDO: Good health to you!
TASHA: Happiness to you! It's like an Eden here.

[Outside the Council Chambers]
RIVAN: Good health! I thought you might be out of breath.
RIKER: We may surprise you in a lot of ways.
LIATOR: Children, we've brought you a new friend!
BOY: Well, hello. Join us.
GIRL: Yes, please.
RIVAN: And now it's time for you to meet some new friends.

[Council Chambers]
RIVAN: Everyone! We've brought the visitors!
LIATOR: Please enjoy what we have!

[Bridge]
DATA: I've traced it through our sensor channel, sir It is not a glitch or any other form of error or malfunction.
LAFORGE: Confirmed by my readings, Captain. It's a shadow something.
DATA: Exactly. As if it were neither in or out of our dimension.
PICARD: What is, Commander?
DATA: Whatever is sitting out there without triggering our alarm relays, sir.
PICARD: Center main viewer on that area. I see nothing, Commander.
DATA: Enterprise to object off our starboard bow. Request that you identify yourself.
LAFORGE: Shields and deflectors up full, sir. Main phaser banks ready.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies. Any reply?
DATA: It was something unintelligible, Captain. Now running it through language and logic circuits.
PICARD: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: Have a real look.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
OFFICER: Sir, my sensors read it. Well, it's half there. It does look as if it were partly transparent.
PICARD: Data, what the hell is it?

[Lounge]
LAFORGE: Lieutenant La Forge to Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, LaForge. What can you make out?

[Lounge]
LAFORGE: This is something I've never seen before, sir. After complete spectral analysis, well it's as if it's not really there.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I don't understand it.
DATA: I've got some information on its first transmission, sir. It translates as stand by.
OFFICER: Sir, I see show something coming out of that ship.
DATA: Verified, sir. Something very small.
OFFICER: Intruder alert, sir. I don't show a location.
DATA: The away team signal's been cut off, Captain. We've lost contact with our people.
OFFICER: Intruder relays do show something.
PICARD: Why has everything become a something, or a whatever?
EDO: State the purpose. State the purpose of what you have done.
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard, commanding this Federation starship.
EDO: State the purpose of your visit here.
PICARD: We have sent down what we call an away team to make peaceful contact here.
EDO: Do you plan to leave life forms here?
PICARD: No. We are merely visiting here.
EDO: But you did more at the world you just left. Why have you left your own life forms there?
DATA: The colony we just planted, sir.
PICARD: We found that world uninhabited. The life forms we left there had, had sought the challenge. At least, that is the basic reason. Had sought the challenge of creating a new lifestyle, a new society there. Life on our world is driven to protect itself by seeding itself as widely as possible.
EDO: Do not interfere with my children below.
DATA: Captain, I do not understand how, but it is asking me if I was constructed for information exchange.
PICARD: If there is any way of finding out whatever is out there, Data.

[Planet surface]
BOY: Watch! I bet you can't do this!
WESLEY: Watch this.
GIRL: I want to do something too. With you.
WESLEY: Er. What?
GIRL: It's something you can teach me. Will you?
WESLEY: Er. Well, actually, there are some games I don't quite know yet
GIRL: It's playing ball. Will you teach me?
WESLEY: Oh, sure! If you have a bat for the ball, I can show you my favorite. A bat? A stick or branch, about this thick, this long.
GIRL: We can get it in the gardens. Come on.

[Council Chambers]
MAN: This will please you. Join us.
RIKER: Thanks. Another time.
WOMAN: Joy and happiness.
RIKER: It certainly is. The good life, Worf.
WORF: I am not concerned with pleasure, Commander. I am a warrior.
RIKER: Even Klingons need love now and then.
WORF: For what we consider love, sir, I would need a Klingon woman.
RIKER: What about plain old basic sex? You must have some need for that.
WORF: Of course, but with the females available to me, sir, Earth females, I must restrain myself too much. They are quite fragile, sir.
RIKER: Worf, if anyone else had said that, I'd suspect he was bragging.
WORF: Bragging, sir?
RIKER: I think I'll pass on that. I'd better check in. Enterprise, come in. Captain, do you read me? Let's. This may be nothing, but let's move all our people together.
WORF: Including Wesley, the boy? He's outside.
TROI: Is there a problem?
RIKER: We've lost contact with our ship.
TROI: It's nothing these people have done. I'm certain of that. Their minds are so open.
RIKER: Help me locate Wes. He's wandered off.
TASHA: That is extraordinary.
WORF: Can I take a moment of your time, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Yes, Worf, but you've got to hear this. Are you telling me that there's no crime here whatsoever? No one breaks any laws?
LIATOR: Once they did. Long, long ago there was much disorder. But not now.
TASHA: But I seen no sign of police. Those who enforce laws.
RIVAN: Oh, we have very few. They are called Mediators. And they are needed only in one place each day.
LIATOR: The punishment zone. An area that's selected for a period of time.
TASHA: It's a completely random selection?
LIATOR: No one but our Mediators know what place or for how long. We're very proud of the wisdom of our ancestors. No person ever knows where or when a zone will be.
RIVAN: And so no one risks death.
WORF: Death?
RIVAN: by breaking any law.
TASHA: Wait. Explain this.
LIATOR: Only one punishment for any crime.
WORF: Anyone who commits any crime in the punishment zone dies?
LIATOR: The law is the law. Our peace is built on that.
TASHA: Even a small thing? Such as ignoring the rule, keep off the grass?
RIVAN: Then no one breaks that rule. Who wants to risk execution? And there's always a white wall or fence to remind anyone of a forbidden area like that.
TASHA: And just who tells visitors about these rules?
WORF: We'd better find Wesley.

[Planet surface]
GIRL: You're very clever at this.
WESLEY: At home we play a lot of it. Here, toss the ball ahead of me.
GIRL: No, Wes!
BOY: No! It's forbidden to disturb new plants!
BOY: Couldn't you see the fence? It's for new plants. Don't ever go past a white marker.
WESLEY: It's okay. I'm fine.
GIRL: Oh, no! Oh, please, no!
MEDIATOR 2: Speak the truth. We are mediators.
WESLEY: I said I was fine.
GIRL: He doesn't know. He's from another place.
MEDIATOR 2: How very sad. But this zone has been selected.
BOY: But he doesn't understand.
MEDIATOR: It's always sad. Now doubly so.
WESLEY: I was chasing a ball and I fell into that. I'm really sorry!
MEDIATOR: You admit you did that? Freely?
WESLEY: I'm with Starfleet. We don't lie.
RIKER: It won't happen again. We apologize.
MEDIATOR: We're sorry, too. But that changes nothing.
TASHA: Careful, Commander. They've got some strange laws here.
RIKER: I thought you reviewed their laws.
TASHA: But they listed nothing about punishment.
MEDIATOR: One moment, please. Is there a witness to this transgression?
BOY: But it was my fault. I threw the ball past him.
MEDIATOR: We have a visible transgression, ample witnesses, and an admission of guilt. And though it deeply pains us to do it, we must.
MEDIATOR: Are you prepared for punishment?
WORF: Punishment? If you mean what the others were talking about.
RIKER: What punishment? Name it!
MEDIATOR: Death, of course. Don't make it difficult for the boy.
WORF: Drop it. Drop it now!
TASHA: It's a kind of syringe.
RIKER: What is this? You said death. Is this poison?
MEDIATOR: But of course it is. Completely painless. The boy would have felt nothing. But look at him now. You've frightened him.
WESLEY: He was going to kill me?
MEDIATOR 2: And if this Zone were still in effect, you would all deserve death.
MEDIATOR: It was announced you came as friends. Is this how friends act?
RIKER: Enterprise from away team, come in. Are you receiving us, Enterprise?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Condition?
CRUSHER: No sign of consciousness, but the balance of the readings are quite normal for him.
PICARD: I believe this is some form of information exchange with whatever is over there. At least, I hope it is.
CRUSHER: Any communication from the away team?
PICARD: Something is blocking communication both
TASHA (voiceover): Security. Urgent. Repeating. Enterprise from away team.
LAFORGE: This is the Enterprise, Lieutenant. We're receiving you now.
TASHA (voiceover): This is an urgent call for Captain Picard.
RIKER (voiceover): We may need your presence here, Captain. We have serious trouble with a member of our away team and an unusual law they have here.
PICARD: Captain to Riker, stand by. Signs of consciousness?
CRUSHER: Not yet. Could be minutes or hours. It's unclear what's happened to him.
PICARD: Take him to Sickbay. Let me know the instant he's awake. Anything new on that that thing out there?
LAFORGE: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Captain to First Officer. I'm beaming down.

[Council Chambers]
PICARD: Would you care to comment privately how you read any of this?
TROI: Unnecessary, sir. These people are honest, almost to a fault. And they have great pride in their ways.
LIATOR: You're the Captain. We're ready. This way, please.
LIATOR: Welcome to our world, Captain.
PICARD: Thank you.
LIATOR: We regret that our system of justice is troubling you.
PICARD: The boy, Wesley Crusher, where is he, please?
RIKER: In accord with the Prime Directive, I've allowed them to hold him pending the outcome of this.
RIVAN: He is safe and unharmed. We promise that. Captain Picard, I do not know how you Earth people conduct law and justice, even if you respect such things.
PICARD: We do.
LIATOR: Good, so do we. Our precepts have been handed down from long ago. The tranquility you see in our lives has been made possible by our laws.
RIVAN: We are a people of law. They do sometimes bring us sadness, but we have learned to adjust to that. Perhaps your laws work as well.
PICARD: They haven't always, but now they do.
LIATOR: Do you execute criminals?
PICARD: No, not any longer.
RIVAN: But you did once?
PICARD: Unfortunately, yes. But since then
RIVAN: But when you did, was it believed necessary to do so?
PICARD: Some people felt that it was necessary. But we have learned to detect the seeds of criminal behavior Capital punishment, in our world, is no longer considered a justifiable deterrent.
LIATOR: So, we are not yet as advanced as they are. And since you are advanced in other ways too, I suggest you use your superior powers to rescue the Wesley boy. We will record him as a convicted criminal out of our reach, an advanced person who luckily escaped the barbarism of this backward little world.
PICARD: Unfortunately, we have a law known as the Prime Directive.
RIVAN: Riker has explained it to us.
PICARD: Is the boy in any danger from you at this moment?
LIATOR: Until sundown?
RIVAN: Because you are strangers, we are delaying enforcement of the law. But we must act by sundown.
PICARD: Then I have another question. While orbiting, while circling high above your world, as we do, we have encountered a strange object. A vessel perhaps. Have you any idea what it is? It's not entirely real. At least, it's not completely solid.
RIVAN: Do you mean God?
PICARD: God?
LIATOR: God is said to be somewhere up there, protecting us.
PICARD: Exactly, exactly how would you describe God?
RIVAN: As you just did. As existing both here and in another place also.
LIATOR: But when God wants to show its power, it can make itself felt most fully.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain, come in please.
PICARD: Picard here.
BEVERLY (voiceover): CMO Crusher, sir.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Commander Data has just regained consciousness.
PICARD (voiceover): What condition? Can he talk?
BEVERLY: He's insisting on it, sir. Urgently.

[Council Chamber]
TROI: Wesley.
PICARD: Stand by. Picard out. I want to speak to her personally about her son. So you promise that Wesley Crusher is safe until sundown?
LIATOR: You have our word.
PICARD: Then, will one of you return with me to our vessel?
RIVAN: Of course. I'll go as a hostage for the boy's safety.
PICARD: No, no, no. That's not it. I want you to identify something for me, if you can. Captain to Transporter Room. Three to beam up.
RIVAN: I'm frightened.
TROI: There's no reason to be.
PICARD: Transporter Room, energize.

[Corridor]
RIVAN: But this is a city. A great city.
CRUSHER: Captain, I've just seen the away team report about Wesley.
PICARD: In a moment, Doctor.
CRUSHER: In a moment?
PICARD: Exactly. In a moment. You were about to say?
RIVAN: Since you have all this power, why be concerned about our laws? You could take the boy from us.
PICARD: It's not that simple. From the starboard lounge, you can see whatever is outside this vessel.
RIVAN: Do you mean my world? You said we'd be high above it.
PICARD: And something else that's circling your world. It's very important to us, and perhaps to you, to know what it is.

[Lounge]
PICARD: I'm sorry, Rivan, but this was necessary. Do you know what that is?
TROI: Can you tell us what it is?
PICARD: Is it God? Now, it's very important you answer something. How do you recognize what it is?
TROI: Nothing will harm you, I promise. Just tell us how you recognize it.
RIVAN: It has appeared before.
PICARD: Can you speak to it? Does it speak to you?
TROI: Captain!
EDO (voiceover): Return my child.
CRUSHER: Return?
TROI: It's coming toward us.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter Room, come in.
TROI: Yes, do that. But hurry!
CRUSHER: It's still coming toward us.
CHIEF (voiceover): Transporter Chief to Captain.
PICARD: One to beam down to away team location. Hurry! Engage! Transporter Room. Urgent! Engage!
CRUSHER: It seems the Edo's god is very protective of its children.
PICARD: I had no choice but to learn about that thing from her. I'm sorry I had to. She was so frightened.
TROI: It's understandable, sir. Sharing an orbit with God is no small experience.
PICARD: Let's go see your patient, Doctor.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: What do you intend to do about my son?
PICARD: He's being held safely until sundown.
CRUSHER: When he faces execution! Although he's committed no crime, certainly none that any sane and reasonable person would
PICARD: You saw what that thing was about to do.
CRUSHER: I apologize, sir, but this is very difficult for me. If he were your son, you'd be as frightened
PICARD: But I am.
CRUSHER: Data is in Sickbay here. You'll find him able to talk to you.

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: He's checking out fine, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Thank you. Finish it later, please.
DATA: I was an excellent choice for them, Captain. They were able to communicate with me quite. I was about to say quite easily, but there was nothing easy about it. Fortunately, they stopped short of overloading my circuitry.
PICARD: You're saying they. It is a vessel of some sort.
DATA: Definitely not a single entity if that's what you mean, sir, although they know the Edo worship them as a god thing.
PICARD: They know?
DATA: They recognize that this is quite expected and harmless at the present Edo stage of evolution.
PICARD: What sort of vessel?
DATA: It is perhaps not what we would understand as a vessel, sir. The dimensions this one occupies allows them to be, well, to be in several places at once. But they consider this entire star cluster to be theirs. It was probably unwise of us to attempt to place a human colony in this area. Of course, there are three thousand four other planets in this star cluster in which we could have colonized. The largest and closest
PICARD: Data, don't babble.
DATA: Babble, sir? I'm not aware that I ever babble, sir. It may be that from time to time I have considerable information to communicate, and you may question the way I organize it.
PICARD: Please, organize it into brief answers to my questions. We have very little time. Do they accept our presence at this planet?
DATA: Undecided, sir.
PICARD: Data, please, feel free to volunteer any important information.
DATA: I volunteer that they are now observing us, sir.
PICARD: To judge what kind of life forms we are?
DATA: No, it is more curiosity, sir. I doubt that they expect us to abide by their value systems.
PICARD: Do they know of our Prime Directive?
DATA: They know everything I know, sir.
PICARD: And, if we were to violate the Prime Directive, how
CRUSHER: That's not a fair question.
PICARD: How would they react?
DATA: It would be a case of judging us by our own rules, sir. If we violate our own Prime Directive, they might consider us to be deceitful and untrustworthy. You do recall they cautioned us not to interfere with their children below. What has happened?
CRUSHER: The Edo want to execute my son. I will not allow that to happen, Jean-Luc.
DATA: Most interesting, sir. The emotion of motherhood, compared to all others felt by
CRUSHER: Shut up!
DATA: You were right, sir. I do tend to babble.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41255.9. Whatever the object or vessel in orbit with us, it hangs there like a nemesis. It is one thing to communicate with something mysterious, but it is quite another to be silently observed by it. I am concerned whether it understands the same concept of reason that we do?

[Lounge]
DATA: You sent for me, sir?
PICARD: Let's have more talk, Data.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Sit down.
DATA: What level of communication, sir?
PICARD: Any. My apologies for saying that you babbled.
DATA: But I do, sir.
PICARD: You also see things in a way we do not, but as they truly are. I need help, my friend. I cannot permit that boy or any member of this vessel be sacrificed. The Prime Directive never intended that.
DATA: The problem, sir, is there. Although they've learned of the Prime Directive from my mind, how will they evaluate it? How do they reason? What are their values? Remember their warning to us, sir.
PICARD: Exactly. How do I explain my refusing to obey their laws down there. Not permitting the Crusher boy to be executed. And by so doing do I endanger this vessel and more than a thousand other lives?
DATA: Would you choose one life over one thousand, sir?
PICARD: I refuse to let arithmetic decide questions like that. Did you learn anything about the relationship between that and the Edo? Why are they so certain it's a god?
DATA: Any sufficiently advanced life form would appear to others to be that, sir. But when they were probing my thoughts, Captain, I could feel that whatever they are now, they once existed in this dimension, just as we do. Perhaps in the same kind of flesh and blood form. Since then, however, they have evolved considerably. Their present existence in multi-dimensions no doubt has advantages we do not understand.
PICARD: Then in some earlier flesh and blood form they might have shared our kind of values.
DATA: We know the Edo share them, sir.
PICARD: Why would such an advanced thing feel obliged to protect the Edo?
DATA: Perhaps the Edo are a child race by comparison. Possibly a race which those life forms have planted here. Much as we plant human colonies on Class-M planets.
CRUSHER: Having fulfilled my professional obligations regarding Commander Data
PICARD: You now request permission to beam down to the planet. Permission granted. You can accompany me while I try and resolve this. And you should know that whatever the cost, I will not allow them to execute your son.
CRUSHER: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Data, take command.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Council chambers]
RIKER: It's almost time. I want the boy brought here now.
TASHA: I'll go along with you.
LIATOR: Of course.
RIVAN: Captain Picard. I saw you share the sky with God. You must be Gods.
PICARD: No, no, we're not gods.
WESLEY: Mother. I guess you know a lot has happened here.
CRUSHER: I know.
WESLEY: Captain Picard, are you going to let them kill me?
PICARD: No. But I must find some way to prevent it that you understand.
MEDIATOR: How can we let this happen, Liator? They threaten everything we respect. Our law, our peace, our tranquility and order.
MEDIATOR 2: You are powerful, but do not do this to us, we beg you. At least study what we were without law. Hurtful to each other, savage, thieving.
PICARD: I understand. Perhaps your system of law and punishment is better than any system we once had. But we do now have a law I must obey. And part of it says I must protect my people from harm.
LIATOR: We did not ask you to come here.
RIKER: Which has to do with another law that we must obey.
PICARD: We are all sworn not to interfere with other lives in the galaxy. If I save this boy, I break that law.
MEDIATOR: And you should be executed if you do so!
PICARD: I may suffer almost as much. Starfleet takes the Prime Directive very seriously.
MEDIATOR 2: No, it is God who will punish you.
PICARD: That thought has crossed our minds. Your god up there may insist that we obey our non-interference directive.
WESLEY: Sir, does this mean if you save me the entire crew could die?
PICARD: You're not involved in this decision, boy.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, sir, but it seems like I am.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room. Lock into this signal. Stand by for six to beam up. Wesley, Lieutenant.
LIATOR: Our laws have been violated. What of justice?
TASHA: What of justice to Wesley? Does he deserve to die?
PICARD: I'm truly sorry, Liator, but I must have justice for my people too. Transporter room, energize.
PICARD: Transporter room, come in.
CHIEF (voiceover): We can't energize the beam, sir. Everything checks out but we're getting no results.
MEDIATOR: God has prevented your escape.
CRUSHER: Then your god is unfair. My son had no warning that his act was criminal.
MEDIATOR 2: We cannot allow ignorance of the law to become a defense.
PICARD: I don't know how to communicate this, or even if it is possible, but the question of justice has concerned me greatly of lately. And I say to any creature who may be listening, there can be no justice so long as laws are absolute. Even life itself is an exercise in exceptions.
RIKER: When has justice ever been as simple as a rulebook?
PICARD: It seems the Edo Lord agrees with you, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Main viewer on.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Open, sir.
PICARD: To the object in orbit with us. We will remove the human colonists from the adjoining solar system if you signal us to do so. Please tell us.
DATA: Captain.
LAFORGE: Is that a signal?
PICARD: I suppose, I suppose it must be. I was hoping for more.
LAFORGE: More of what, sir? I'm glad it's gone.
RIKER: Agreed, sir. Short and sweet. God-like efficiency.
PICARD: I was hoping we'd learn more about it. But since we can't, take us out of here, Number One.
RIKER: Gladly, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41723.9. In response to a Starfleet order we are in the Xendi Sabu star system, having rendezvoused with a Ferengi vessel which has requested a meeting. Although we arrived here and made appropriate signals to the Ferengi three days ago, they have so far responded only with the message, stand by Enterprise.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: You sent for me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. Sit down. Look, this perhaps may be nothings, but I've been feeling a bit odd of late. Fatigued. And now I've got this damned headache.
CRUSHER: A what?
PICARD: Headache. Headache. Surely you know what a headache is.
CRUSHER: Of course. But I don't often encounter them.
PICARD: The reason is obvious, of course. What are the Ferengi up to? Stand by, Enterprise. Stand by for what?
CRUSHER: I don't see a thing wrong.
PICARD: No, neither can I. Unless they're baiting some kind of trap.
CRUSHER: With your head. I see nothing physically wrong, but I want to run some additional scans in Sickbay.
PICARD: Doctor, all I've got is
CRUSHER: Is an order to report to Sickbay. From the one person aboard this ship who can give you an order.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain from First Officer. They're finally sending a message.
PICARD: On my way, Number One. Sorry, Doctor. Duty calls.

[Bridge]
RIKER: They're prepared to talk, sir.
PICARD: Have they given any hint of what they've been waiting for?
TASHA: Negative, Captain. They've identified their Captain as Bok. DaiMon Bok.
LAFORGE: You'll be able to see him now, sir. They're willing to communicate on visual.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Ferengi vessel. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. We are transmitting visually.
BOK (screen): Is this the Captain Picard?
PICARD: Do we know each other?
BOK (screen): I know you, Picard.
PICARD: Then you have the advantage. Is this Bok?
BOK (screen): I am Bok, DaiMon of the Ferengi. I have asked you here to discuss a mutual problem, Captain.
PICARD: What problem is that, DaiMon Bok?
BOK (screen): I insist on speaking of that matter in person. Shall we meet on your vessel or mine?
TASHA: Hailing frequencies closed.
TROI: Captain, I sense considerable deception on Bok's part. And danger.
RIKER: Then we should meet him here. Keep him under our control.
TASHA: Now open, sir.
PICARD: I appreciate your offer, DaiMon Bok. We would like you to be our guest here.
BOK (screen): As you wish, Picard. Perhaps this will begin a new era of cooperation for both our peoples. In one Earth hour, then?
PICARD: In one hour, DaiMon Bok. End transmission.
WORF: I can't believe they're coming here.
PICARD: They did agree a bit easily. Well, in one hour we shall know why.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Are you always accustomed to getting your way, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Only when my way makes sense, Captain. There are still forty minutes before the Ferengi beam over. I'll have these scans done in ten.
PICARD: It seems an awful lot of effort for something as simple as a headache.
CRUSHER: As simple? You should not have a headache unless there's something wrong, sir. It may be true that headaches were once quite common, but that was in the days before the brain was charted, before we understood the nature of pain. When we were suffering from such things as the common cold.
PICARD: So what's the cause of my headache?
CRUSHER: I haven't the slightest idea. Feel better.
PICARD: The pain's gone.
CRUSHER: Medical fakery. The pain is actually still there. It's just cloaked. I'll want further exams.
PICARD: Doctor!
CRUSHER: When the Ferengi matter is settled.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Commander, you'll soon be getting an intruder alert.
RIKER: What? Wesley, if you've something to report.
WESLEY: If you'll scan heading four four mark one six three, Lieutenant, you'll find
TASHA: Intruder alert, sir.
LAFORGE: I've got something, sir.
WESLEY: It's an old style starship, Constellation Class, heading this way under impulse power, sir.
RIKER: Says who?
PICARD: Ensign, answer the First Officer's question.
WESLEY: Says the long distance sensors, sir. I was in Engineering, playing around with boosting sensor output.
DATA: Boosting it? How? We will discuss this later.
LAFORGE: I read it now, sir, as a Constellation class starship heading this way under impulse power. Sending no call letters, sir.
PICARD: The correct procedure,
RIKER: What's wrong, sir?
PICARD: Oh, it's nothing. It's just a, just a mild headache. The correct procedure, Ensign, would have been to signal the Bridge of your finding immediately.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Bringing it here personally, perhaps with the idea of being on hand for the Ferengi beam over, might have imperiled this vessel had it been something hostile approaching.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
WORF: We are receiving no signal at all from the approaching starship, sir.
DATA: Time, sir.
PICARD: Time? Oh, for the Ferengi to beam over. Do you see any problems connected with this old starship coming in, Number One?
RIKER: Suggest it would be safer, sir, to have the Ferengi here whatever happenings.
PICARD: Concur. Stand by.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Welcome you in peace to the Enterprise, DaiMon Bok.
BOK: It is our pleasure, Captain Picard. Might I introduce my First Officer, Kazago, and my Second, Rata?
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. Second in command, Data. Counselor Troi.
BOK: We have heard that you use females. Clothed females. Most interesting.
RIKER: They are that, sir.
KAZAGO: And the android was mentioned too. What is its price? We should like to purchase it.
PICARD: He is not for sale. Commander Data is, um, is, um
RIKER: Is second-hand merchandise. You wouldn't want him.
DATA: Second-hand, sir? Oh, of course. A human joke.
TASHA: Excuse, Captain, but the unidentified starship is coming in. Still no signal at all.
BOK: Think nothing of it. It is under our control.
PICARD: One of our starships under your control?
BOK: Do not be alarmed, Captain. It is a gift from us. With which we honor the Hero of Maxia.
PICARD: Who?
BOK: Why you, Picard, of course. Do you not remember the Battle of Maxia?
PICARD: I'm sorry, I do not remember it, DaiMon Bok. Data?
DATA: Captain, he may refer to an incident which occurred nine years ago in the Maxia Zeta star system, in which an unidentified starship
BOK: Unidentified? That fine vessel was Ferengi.
DATA: Which you destroyed, sir.
PICARD: The Battle of Maxia. I've never heard it referred to so dramatically before. My sincere regrets, Bok, but that vessel refused to identify itself. It simply attacked us. We defended ourselves.
BOK: Such mistakes happen in space.
DATA: Hardly a mistake, sir. Your report shows that it deliberately attacked.
TASHA: Do you want the arriving vessel on main viewer, sir? It is only a thousand kilometers away now.
BOK: Put it on your viewer.
PICARD: Main viewer.
BOK: There is no one aboard it.
RATA: The log should be downloaded into the Enterprise's records. At a price.
BOK: No price!
KAZAGO: No price?
PICARD: For what purpose? What
TROI: I just felt something too, Captain.
BOK: Perhaps it is his conscience?
RIKER: Bridge to Sickbay.
PICARD: No, no. I'm fine
TROI: It felt as if it were something from your past.
PICARD: It's right. I'm fine. What is this all about?
BOK: It is about the battle I mentioned, Captain. A gift, in honor of that occasion. Look at that ship closely.
PICARD: Magnify please, Lieutenant La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Why, it's the Stargazer. It's my old ship. How did you find it?
BOK: It was a derelict, adrift in space on the far side of this star system. How it got there is none of my business, Captain. But now, that vessel is yours, if you wish to have it.
KAZAGO: We are not selling it to him?
BOK: Consider it an act of friendship.
RATA: At no cost? Oh, ugly. Very ugly.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Bok and his officers have returned to their vessel, inviting us now to officially take possession of the Stargazer.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Like before?
PICARD: No. It hit with more impact.
TROI: Hit? I'm sorry, but anything could be important.
CRUSHER: You said you felt something yourself.
TROI: I believe so. Like a thought, but rather mechanical in nature.
PICARD: Are you sure it wasn't one of my thoughts? At that moment, I was remembering being at the helm of the Stargazer. A maneuver was being made. We were hit. Something's burning. I can smell smoke. Can you smell it?
CRUSHER: There's nothing burning, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: That was just part of my memory.
TROI: Memory or nightmare?
PICARD: Well, it was strong, whatever it was. Are you ready, Number One.
RIKER: Staff's waiting, if Doctor Crusher approves.
CRUSHER: I'll do better than that. I'll go along.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta star system when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired on us, point-blank range.
RIKER: Where did it come from?
PICARD: It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attack damaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time.
TASHA: No clue who they were?
PICARD: No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they come in a second time with our shields damaged
TROI: Sir? Who's Vigo?
PICARD: He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quite caught up in this.
RIKER: Your shields were failing, sir.
PICARD: I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, I ordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc
DATA: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard Maneuver.
PICARD: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I dropped into high warp, stopped right off the enemy vessel's bow and fired with everything I had.
RIKER: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant to be in two places at once.
PICARD: And our attacker fired on the wrong one.
RIKER: I did what any good helmsman could have done. You did it first, sir.
PICARD: It was a save our skins maneuver. We were finished. On fire. We had to abandon ship. We limped through space in shuttlecraft for weeks before we were picked up. I haven't thought about this for years.
DATA: Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the Stargazer.
PICARD: I want to go over to her.
RIKER: I understand, sir. As soon as my people have made certain she's safe.
CRUSHER: And after I have another look at you, Captain.

[Stargazer Bridge]
DATA: USS Stargazer. Constellation Class. Starfleet Registry NCC 2893.
LAFORGE: I activated the emergency power cells. Amazing they still work.
WORF: The rest of the ship is clear of surprises, Lieutenant Yar.
LAFORGE: I read about this ship at the Academy, I never dreamed I'd ever be on her.
TASHA: Yar to Enterprise. All clear, sir.
PICARD: Hello, old friend.
DATA: You'll find this most intriguing, sir.
PICARD: What did you find, Data?
DATA: The last entry dated nine years ago, sir. By you. We are forced to abandon our starship. May she find her way without us. Apparently she did, sir.
CRUSHER: How do you feel, Captain?
PICARD: Oh, I'm fine, Doctor. Lieutenant Yar, run a structural analysis on the Stargazer for an impulse tow. Data, download all computers to the Enterprise and file. I'm going to look at my old cabin.

[Ferengi Science Lab]
BOK: Try this, Hero of Maxia.

[Stargazer Captain's quarters]
CRUSHER: Captain? Another headache? This really worries me. I want you back on the Enterprise.
PICARD: But my things
CRUSHER: I'll see they're sent to your Enterprise quarters.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Enterprise now taking possession of Stargazer, Kazago.
KAZAGO (screen): Permission granted, Riker.
RIKER: Actually it was quite a bargain, Kazago. I thought the Ferengi always made a profit on things.
RIKER: Set sub-warp speed for towing, LaForge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: Starfleet has responded to our request, sir. A tug will rendezvous with us and tow the Stargazer back to Xendi Starbase Nine.
PICARD: Very well, Data.
RIKER: How was it, Captain?
PICARD: Very strange, Number One. Like going back to the house you grew up in, but no one's home, except the phantoms of the past.
TROI: It has troubled you?
PICARD: Not half as much as this damn headache. Take over, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What's wrong?
TROI: I wish I could say.

[Picard's quarters]
VOICES (voiceover): Shields weakening, Captain. Torpedoes armed. Where are they? Oh my god, sir! Fire! Fire!

[Ready Room]
RIKER: What is it, Data? Why all the mystery?
DATA: The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the Battle of Maxia. It seems the Captain's personal log contains a much different version of that conflict than the official historic account.
RIKER: What are you saying?
DATA: It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked, had in fact, been under a flag of truce.
RIKER: What?
DATA: And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice or provocation.
RIKER: Impossible. What about the fire aboard the Stargazer?
DATA: An accident in Engineering.
RIKER: And what proof?
DATA: It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it, sir? Sir?

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD (voiceover): This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding USS Stargazer.
PICARD: What does this mean?
RIKER: I don't know, sir. It sounds like your voice.
PICARD: It is, Number One.
RIKER: I refuse to believe you ever said that.
PICARD (voiceover): I admit I must have mistaken their subspace antenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasers and our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel.
RIKER: I've assumed they've simulated your voice somehow. I've already put Data to work on it.
PICARD: Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but it still leaves you with a duty to perform.
RIKER: I know, sir, I must report it to Starfleet. That's at least one full day for subspace communications to reach there.
PICARD: And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like the truth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defense.
RIKER: I can't believe they'd ask for your command.
PICARD: Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendship overtures, I could become a severe embarrassment to Starfleet.
RIKER: I'm certain the Ferengi are behind the faked log. No wonder they're waiting out there. Headache back, sir?
PICARD: Damn! I'll call the Doctor again.
RIKER: It's no wonder, with all this going on. Try to relax.
PICARD (voiceover): This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard, commanding USS Stargazer, in the hopes that my belated honesty will be taken into account by Starfleet when judging my actions during a confrontation with an unidentified vessel.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Open, sir.
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room. Secure channel, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Secure, Sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Starship Ferengi, this is Commander Riker here. I'd like to speak to First Officer Kazago.
KAZAGO (voiceover): A problem, Riker?
RIKER: Are our channels secure on your end?
KAZAGO (screen): It is now.
RIKER: Are you aware of the details of the Battle of Maxia?
KAZAGO (screen): Captain Bok has just made me aware of it, Riker. The infamy of your Picard is now fully known.
RIKER: Infamy?
KAZAGO (screen): I would call the wanton destruction of an unarmed vessel infamy.
RIKER: And if I produced evidence that Captain Picard's log entry was falsified to indicate that?
KAZAGO (screen): I can hardly imagine you contacted me to discuss an ancient battle. What do you want of me?
RIKER: Just one question.
KAZAGO (screen): As you humans say, I'm all ears.
RIKER: First Officer to First Officer, Kazago, if your Captain Bok knew about this, then why this peaceful meeting to present us with the Stargazer?
KAZAGO (screen): We freely give you back your derelict warship and now you accuse us of crime, Riker? I can bear no more insults!

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Yes? Who the hell is it?
CRUSHER: Not resting, Captain?
PICARD: More like dying, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Over here.
PICARD: What is wrong with me?
CRUSHER: I wish to hell I knew, Captain, but something unusual has definitely been happening to you.
PICARD: Why do doctors always say the obvious as though it's a revelation?
CRUSHER: Why do captains always act like they're immortal?
PICARD: No.

[Picard's Quarters]
CRUSHER: You didn't tell me it had been this bad.
PICARD: It wasn't this bad. But it's getting worse.
CRUSHER: This should help a little. It's got to be some kind of emotional pressure connected with the Stargazer.
PICARD: I got this headache long before I even knew my old ship still existed. Still, perhaps you're partly right.
CRUSHER: Want to talk about it? I'm here.
PICARD: The fight at Maxia. I destroyed an entire vessel. An entire crew.
CRUSHER: Did you have a choice?
PICARD: I don't know anymore. I just don't know.
CRUSHER: Commander Riker's told me about the altered log, if that's what's troubling you.
PICARD: The last three nights I've, I've heard these voices. I'm on the bridge of my old ship. There's fire all around me. The klaxons, smoke. And then I give the order. And now the Stargazer is really here!. And that log. Am I going crazy? How do I know I was in my right mind at Maxia? How do I know I'm in my right mind now?
PICARD: What was that?
CRUSHER: Something to let you sleep.
PICARD: Yes sleep. Sleep.
VOICES (voiceover): Shields weakening, Captain. Torpedoes armed. Where are they?

[Ferengi Science Lab]
BOK: And now, dear Captain, you are ready to live the past.

[Picard's quarters]
VOICES (voiceover): Where did they come from? Phasers, sir? Sir? Sir? What should we do, sir? Should we fire back? Fire, Captain? Fire!

[Ferengi Science Lab]
BOK: You will injure yourself as you once injured me.

[Picard's quarters]
VOICES (voiceover): Sir!
PICARD: Damage report!
VOICE (voiceover): Fusion generator under surge control, sir! Power systems failing!
PICARD: Sensor beam bearing on hostile ship!
VOICE (voiceover): Seven mark nineteen, sir!
VOICE (voiceover): Phasers, sir? Sir?
PICARD: Ready phasers, and lock! Stand by on warp nine. Heading seven, seven mark twenty. Engage.
PICARD: Steady. Now, reverse and stop! Phasers fire, torpedoes away! Fire. Fire.

[Ready Room]
DATA: By comparing the Stargazer's main computer log with Captain Picard's personal log, I have found checksum discrepancies, sir.
RIKER: What does that mean?
DATA: All information is time-coded by entry, and the bits when totaled produce an aggregate amount which
RIKER: I don't want a computer science lesson, Data. Bottom line.
DATA: One of these two logs is a forgery, sir.
LAFORGE: Correction. The log just found aboard the Stargazer is a forgery.
DATA: As I said, that is one of them, is it not?
LAFORGE: Captain. You're looking better, sir.
PICARD: A little sleep, thanks to the good Doctor, works wonders. What report on the logs?
DATA: Yes, sir. Whoever tampered with your personal log was clever.
LAFORGE: But a bit clumsy. It's definitely a fabrication, sir.
CRUSHER: Number One, I'd like you to take a look at this brain scan graph. What are you doing here?
PICARD: I thought I was Captain of this starship.
CRUSHER: Of course you are, but I
PICARD: Thank you for the confirmation, Doctor. But now, except for Riker, I would like you all to return to your stations. Is that clear?
DATA: Sir.
PICARD: You too, Doctor. I have business with the Commander.
CRUSHER: Under protest, Captain.
RIKER: You have orders for me, sir?
PICARD: Release the Stargazer from the tractor beam, Number One.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The tractor beam.
RIKER: Sir, are you abandoning?
PICARD: No, but her inertia will carry the Stargazer along with us. Or did you sleep through the Academy lecture on conservation of tractor beam power?
RIKER: No, sir. I'll release her, of course.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Obviously, there's some thought process disorder, but I can't find a physical reason for it. Anything?
TROI: I'm puzzled too. I keep sensing random thoughts but two sets of them. As if they were his, but intermixed other thoughts which are also his.
CRUSHER: I'm busy at the moment, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know, Mom, but this is important. When I went back to the main sensors in Engineering to try some more sensitivity experiments
TROI: Does this have something to do with Captain Picard?
WESLEY: Yes, ma'am, if this is what you're talking about here. I don't know much about brain scans but I glanced at these when you were studying them, and I noticed that these patterns are the same as those picked up from the low-intensity transmissions from the Ferengi ship. I went back and checked, and they're exactly the same.
TROI: What kind of transmissions?
WESLEY: I don't know. Engineering has nothing like it on record.
TROI: Let's get to the Captain.
CRUSHER: No, they might be affecting the Captain. To Riker.
WESLEY: You're welcome, ladies. Adults.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: The captain, Commander?
RIKER: Resting in his quarters after ordering both of you to your duty stations.
TROI: There have been some, did he say low intensity? Some unusual low intensity transmissions from the Ferengi vessel.
RIKER: Did who say?
CRUSHER: My son. Transmissions which exactly match certain anomalies found in the Captain's brain scans. Something over there is affecting the Captain's thought patterns.
RIKER: Computer, give me a location on Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Transporter room three.
RIKER: What? Computer, emergency order to Transporter room three.
COMPUTER: New information. Captain Picard is no longer aboard the Enterprise.

[Stargazer Bridge]
BOK: Welcome back, Captain.
PICARD: What is happening?
BOK: Shields up, computer.
PICARD: What are you doing?
BOK: Collecting on an old debt.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Stargazer, Captain, respond!
TASHA: Shields up, sir. No way to beam over any help.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm reading something very strange here. A low intensity beam of intermittent pulse inside this starship.
DATA: I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters.
TASHA: You transferred some of his belongings from the Stargazer?
WORF: Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest.
RIKER: Go take a look, fast!
LAFORGE: Commander, Stargazer is now powering up, sir.

[Stargazer Bridge]
BOK: I have been waiting a long nine years for this, Picard.
PICARD: I don't know what you're talking about.
BOK: Do you not, human? Can you not remember the crime you committed against my very blood? You murdered my only son.
PICARD: Your son?
BOK: He was the commander of the ship you destroyed! On his first voyage as DaiMon.
PICARD: The ship? The Ferengi ship that attacked me. Or is it about to attack me?
BOK: And I have spent these years searching, seeking a proper blood revenge! And I found it! I am rich, Picard, yet two of these cost me the profits of an entire life. You are back in command of the Stargazer, Picard. Its computers will answer your orders. Die well, Captain. First officer's log. Captain Picard has beamed himself to the Stargazer, which is now moving away from us under its own power.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Enterprise to Stargazer, please respond. Enterprise to Captain Picard aboard Stargazer. Please answer. Mister Data, what was Stargazer's condition?
DATA: Considerable fire damage to interior surface reported, sir. But none of her main systems were crippled.
RIKER: Armaments, Lieutenant Yar?
TASHA: Six photon torpedoes short, sir, probably used when the Captain destroyed his Ferengi attackers nine years ago. Otherwise fully armed.
RIKER: What do you make of it, La Forge?
LAFORGE: It seems to be a network of miniature circuitry, sir. Incredibly complex. Maybe an amplifier.
RIKER: Where was it in the Captain's quarters, Mister Worf?
WORF: His chest from the Stargazer, sir? Just where I had left it. He hadn't yet unpacked.
CRUSHER: So, he may not have even known it was there. And if this is able to pick up or magnify thought-altering transmissions
TROI: It could have prepared him for whatever is happening now.
RIKER: Let's find out, or try to. Contact the Ferengi vessel, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
RIKER: Enterprise to Ferengi vessel, we transmit visually. Do you respond?
KAZAGO (screen): Why is our gift to you under power, human?
RIKER: I will discuss that with your captain.
KAZAGO (screen): He is working in our ship's laboratory. Where is your Captain?
RIKER: He's beamed himself aboard the Stargazer, and I'm wondering if this has something to do with it.
KAZAGO (screen): How do you have possession of that?
RIKER: It was found in our Captain's chest, which brought over from the Stargazer.
KAZAGO (screen): It is a forbidden device. A thought maker. If your Captain is criminal enough to own one
RIKER: Kazago, you know who controls those spheres. Now I ask you again, First Officer to First Officer. What's going on?
KAZAGO (screen): It is not seemly to question one's own DaiMon, Riker. I am not prepared to do that.
TASHA: Sir, I have the Stargazer.
RIKER: Switch, now! Enterprise to Picard.
PICARD (screen): Do not attack again! We are on a peaceful mission. Give your identity. You force us to defend ourselves. Phasers full up. Arm torpedoes. Why aren't the shields at full power?
TASHA: We've lost him, sir.
LAFORGE: When he put up the shields, sir.

[Stargazer Bridge]
PICARD: Damn, I said put fusion generators under surge control. You're moving too slowly. Arm the torpedoes, man! Vigo! Get a fire control party up here!
VOICES (voiceover): Shields weakening, Captain! Fusion generator online.
PICARD: Weapons report!
VOICE (voiceover): Phasers coming to full charge, sir. Torpedoes armed!
PICARD: Who are they? Identify them!
VOICE (voiceover): They're coming for a third pass at us, sir!
VOICE (voiceover): We can't take another hit, Captain!

[Bridge]
TROI: Sir, I now feel anger from our Captain. Fury over whatever it is he is reliving out there.
LAFORGE: The Battle of Maxia, sir. That's what it is.
RIKER: The Picard Maneuver. What is the defense against that, Data?
DATA: There is no defense, sir.
RIKER: Then devise one, fast!
KAZAGO (screen): First Officer Kazago to human Riker.
RIKER: Not now, Kazago.
KAZAGO (screen): We do not wish to become involved in what has become clearly a Federation matter.
RIKER: Fine, fine, Enterprise out!
KAZAGO (screen): You should also know that DaiMon Bok no longer commands this vessel. His First Officer has confined him for engaging in this unprofitable venture. Good luck, First Officer Riker.
DATA: I have computed a possibility, Commander. Since even deep space contains trace gasses, sir, a vessel in the Picard maneuver might seem to disappear, but our sensors could locate any sudden compression of those gasses.
RIKER: And use it as an aiming point and blow our Captain to bits?
DATA: This class starship has enough power to use our tractor beam on it. Seize it, limit it's field of fire.
RIKER: Right. Concentrate shields at that point. Make it so. I hope you're right, Data.
DATA: No question of it, sir.
RIKER: Stand by!
RIKER: Lock on tractor beam.

[Stargazer Bridge]
PICARD: Ready phasers.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain Picard, listen to me.
PICARD: Vigo, is that you?
RIKER (voiceover): It's Commander Riker, sir!
RIKER (screen): Captain, hear me! Look around you, the Ferengi are using their thought devices on you.
PICARD: Stand by. Who is this?
RIKER (screen): It's Riker, sir. Your Number One. Look for a silver sphere. Destroy it with your phaser.
PICARD: Phaser. A sphere. Bok used it.
RIKER (screen): Destroy it!
PICARD: Phaser. Destroy the sphere. Destroy the sphere.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you all right, Captain?

[Stargazer Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Captain? Captain, are you all right? Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Where am I, Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): Aboard the Stargazer, sir. The sphere you destroyed, it's been controlling your
PICARD: Bok! Where is Bok?
RIKER (voiceover): Removed from command, sir. Placed under guard for his act of personal vengeance. Seems there was no profit in it.
PICARD: In revenge, there never is. Let the dead rest. And the past remain the past. Enterprise, lock on. Beam me home, Riker.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41590.5. Having dropped off Counselor Troi at Starbase G6 for a shuttle to visit home, we were fortunately close to the Sigma Three solar system when its Federation colony transmitted an urgent call for medical help. An accidental explosion has devastated a mining operation there.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Include a burn unit with each kit. Upon arrival, identify the most critically injured and beam them up to cargo bay six.
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Additional information. The number of colonists at the site is five hundred and four. Are you prepared for that many, Doctor?
CRUSHER (voiceover): We believe so, sir.
LAFORGE: Captain, we are now at warp nine point one, sir.
DATA: Which will bring us to the colony in three point two hours, sir.
RIKER: Captain, I have a schematic of the explosion site. It suggests the cause as a methane-like gas seeping in from underground.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a forcefield out there of some kind. It's almost
DATA: The Q entity, sir. It is identical to the grid we encountered when
WORF: It reads solid, sir.
PICARD: Emergency. Full stop.
LAFORGE: Reversing power, sir.
PICARD: Not now, damn it, Q.
TASHA: Shields and deflectors up, sir.
LAFORGE: Now reading full stop, sir.
Q: Humans, I thought by now you would have scampered back to your own little star system.
PICARD: If this is Q I'm addressing, we are on a mission of rescue where a group of badly injured
Q: We the Q have studied our recent contact with you, and are impressed. We have much to discuss, including perhaps the realization of your most impossible dream.
PICARD: However intriguing that may be, we are now in the midst of an urgent journey. Once that is completed, then, perhaps
Q: You will abandon that mission, Captain. My business with you takes precedence. If my magnificence blinds you, then perhaps something more familiar.
Q: Starfleet Admiral Q, at your service.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue mission to the Sigma Three solar system has been halted by an immense grid and an untimely visit from Q

[Bridge]
PICARD: You're no Starfleet Admiral, Q.
Q: Neither am I an Aldebaran serpent, Captain, but you accepted me as such.
RIKER: He's got us there, Captain.
Q: The redoubtable Commander Riker, whom I noticed before. You seem to find this all very amusing.
RIKER: I might, if we weren't on our way to help some suffering and dying humans who
Q: Your species is always suffering and dying.
PICARD: No, Lieutenant Worf. You'll make no move against him unless I order it.
Q: Pity. You might have learned an interesting lesson. Macro head with a micro brain.
PICARD: You said you had the realization of impossible dreams to offer us. When this rescue is completed, I am prepared to listen carefully to whatever proposal you wish to make and subject to it being acceptable
Q: Subject to your foolish human values? Oh, come, Picard. Why do you distrust me so?
PICARD: Why? At our first meeting you seized my vessel. You condemned all humans as savages, and on that charge you tried us in a post-atomic twenty first century court of horrors, where you attacked my people. You again seized my vessel.
Q: And that angered you, did it? Seized my vessel, seized my vessel.
PICARD: You interfered with our Farpoint mission. You threatened to convict us as ignorant savages, if, while dealing with a powerful and complex life forms, we made the slightest mistake, and when that didn't happen
Q: The Q became interested in you. Does no one here understand your incredible good fortune? Seized my vessel. These are the complaints of a closed mind too accustomed to military privileges. But you, Riker, and I remember you well, what do you make of my offer?
RIKER: We don't have time for these games.
Q: Games? Did someone say games? And perchance for interest's sake, a deadly game? To the game.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Where are we?
DATA: Obviously a class M world. Gravity and oxygen within our limits.
LAFORGE: Twin moons. Where are we?
DATA: Considering the power demonstrated by Q the last time, anywhere. Assuming this place even exists.
RIKER: But this won't be boring. If Q is anything, he's imaginative. Apparently our Captain wasn't meant to be with us here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Security, this is the Captain. Security? Engineering, this is the Bridge.
PICARD: Turbolift Control, do you read? This is the Captain.

[Planet surface]
TASHA: Sir! Over here.
Q: Join me, Riker. A good game needs rules and planning. Wasn't it your own Hartley who said, nothing reveals humanity so well as the games it plays? Almost right. Actually, you reveal yourselves best in how you play.
DATA: Sir, what he has in mind might provide us with vital information.
RIKER: Incredible. I was just thinking about an old-fashioned lemonade.
Q: And so it became that. An excellent thirst quencher. It gets rather hot out on this plain.
RIKER: What about my people?
Q: Whatever they'd like, of course!
Q: Drink not with thine enemy. The rigid Klingon code. That explains something of why you defeated them.
RIKER: You're still fascinated with the human past? Perhaps you're not that original.
Q: Au contraire! It's the human future which intrigues us, and should concern you most. You see, of all species, yours cannot abide stagnation. Change is at the heart of what you are. But change into what? That's the question.
DATA: That is what humans call a truism.
Q: You mean hardly original?
RIKER: You're the one who said it. While we're at it, this isn't part of any human future.
Q: True. I borrowed this from your stodgy Captain's mind. This is dressing for a game that we will play. Now games require rules and rewards and dangers and familiar settings. That sort of thing.
RIKER: This isn't that familiar to me. Data?
DATA: This is from Europe's Napoleonic era, sir. Late eighteenth, early nineteenth centuries. This is a campaign headquarters tent, his uniform is that of a French Army marshal.
RIKER: And a marshal outranks even an Admiral
Q: Well, do you think I would go from a Starfleet Admiral to anything else?
RIKER: Of course you wouldn't. But Napoleonic equipment on an alien planet. One so different it has twin moons?
Q: Well, as you said, I'm nothing if not imaginative. And the game should reflect that. Shall it be a test of strength? Meaningless, since you have none. A test of intelligence, then? Equally as meaningless. But it needs risk, something to win and something to lose.
RIKER: If we must play a game, what would we win?
Q: The greatest possible future that you can imagine. Which, of course, requires something totally disastrous if you lose. Now the point of this game shall be, can any of you can stay alive?
WORF: If your game is fair, we will.
Q: Oh, for shame, Worf. Fairness is such a human concept. Think imaginatively! This game shall in fact be completely unfair.
TASHA: You've gone too far!
Q: Game penalty!
RIKER: Where is she, Q? You can forget your game if
Q: To use a twentieth century term, she's in a penalty box. Where she will remain unharmed unless one of you merits a penalty. Unfortunately, there is only one penalty box. If any of you should be sent there, dear Tasha must give the box up to you.
LAFORGE: And where does she go?
Q: Into nothingness. I entreat you to carefully obey the rules of the game. The only one who can destroy your Tasha now is you.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log
PICARD: Damn it. I can't even make a log entry.
TASHA: I wish I could help you, Captain.
PICARD: Where is everyone else?
TASHA: Down on some planet.
PICARD: Some planet? What are you doing here?
TASHA: Well, I, er. It sounds strange, but I'm in a penalty box.
PICARD: A penalty box?
TASHA: Q's penalty box. It sounds strange, but it definitely isn't. I know that one more penalty by anyone and I'm gone.
PICARD: Gone?
TASHA: Yes! I am gone! It is so frustrating to be controlled like this!
PICARD: Lieutenant. Tasha, it's all right.
TASHA: What the hell am I doing? Crying?
PICARD: Don't worry. There's a new ship's standing order on the Bridge. When one is in the penalty box, tears are permitted.
TASHA: Captain. Oh, if you weren't a captain.
Q: Consorting with lower rank females, Captain? Especially ones in penalty boxes? Destructive to discipline, they say. But then again, you're what? You're only human? Penalty over.
PICARD: A marshal of France? Ridiculous!
Q: One takes what jobs he can get. For example, star log entry, stardate today. This is Q, speaking for Captain Jean-Luc Picard, who we consider too bound by Starfleet customs and traditions to be useful to us. The Enterprise is now helpless, stuck like an Earth insect in amber while its bridge crew plays out a game whose real intent is to test whether the First Officer is worthy of the greatest gift the Q can offer.
PICARD: So you're taking on Riker this time. Excellent. He'll defeat you just as I did.
Q: Shall we wager on that, Captain? Your starship command against?
PICARD: Against your keeping out of humanity's path for ever. Done?
Q: Done! You've already lost, Picard. Riker will be offered something impossible to refuse.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Geordi, can you see Worf?
LAFORGE: I'd see the freckles on his nose if he had them, sir. He's at the third ridge.
DATA: The third ridge?
LAFORGE: Moving well too. Oh, oh. Good, he sees them.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Listen to me, Q. You seem to have some need for humans.
Q: Concern regarding them.
PICARD: Whatever it is, why do you demonstrate it through this confrontation? Why not a simple, direct explanation, a statement of what you seek? Why these games?
Q: Why these games? Why, the play's the thing. And I'm surprised you have to ask when your human Shakespeare explained it all so well.
PICARD: So he did, but don't depend too much on any single viewpoint
Q: It's a pity you don't know the content of your own library. Hear this, Picard, and reflect. All the galaxy's a stage.
PICARD: World, not galaxy. All the world's a stage.
Q: Oh, you know that one? Well, if he were living now he would have said galaxy. How about this? Life is but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more. It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.
PICARD: I see. So how we respond to a game tells you more about us than our real life, this tale told by an idiot? Interesting, Q.
Q: Oh, thank you very much. I'm glad you enjoyed it. Perhaps maybe a little Hamlet?
PICARD: Oh, no. I know Hamlet. And what he might said with irony, I say with conviction. What a piece of work is man. How noble in reason. How infinite in faculty. In form, in moving, how express and admirable. In action, how like an angel. In apprehension, how like a god.
Q: Surely you don't really see your species like that, do you?
PICARD: I see us one day becoming that, Q. Is it that what concerns you?

[Planet]
LAFORGE: Those soldiers have formed a skirmishing line, I think you'd call it, and they're headed this way.
RIKER: Armed with ancient ball and powder muskets?
LAFORGE: That's what their weapons look like, sir.
DATA: Muskets are appropriate to the 1790 to 1800 French army uniform, sir. But it is hardly a weapon by our standards. A lead ball propelled by gunpowder. One hundred meters at best with any accuracy.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but against phasers? Just one of our hand phasers could finish off an entire regiment.
RIKER: Except for one thing. It hardly sounds like Q to give us an advantage like that. Unless.
WORF: Drop your weapons!
RIKER: I'm afraid that was me, Worf. I was checking to see if the phasers still operate.
LAFORGE: Incredible, Worf! You came out of nowhere.
WORF: A warrior's reaction.
RIKER: Report. What did you find?
WORF: Sir, what they're wearing may be old Earth uniforms, but what's inside of them isn't human at all. More like vicious animal things.
LAFORGE: Those soldiers are moving in fast, sir.
RIKER: Data, if you've got a theory about what's happening?
Q: Think fast, Commander Riker, and move fast.
RIKER: Those aren't muskets.
Q: You have only one chance to save them now. Send them back to the ship.
RIKER: You'll let me beam them?
Q: Send them the same way as I do. I've given you that power. Do you understand? I have given you the power of the Q. Use it.
Q (voiceover): Use your power.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Lieutenant, take the conn position. Engineering, this is the Bridge.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering here, sir.
PICARD: Engineering, are all systems back online?
CREWMAN (voiceover): Back online, sir? They were never off.
TASHA: Captain, you'd better look at this. There's been no interruption in course or speed. Both have remained constant. It's as though we never stopped.
PICARD: We never did, Lieutenant. Q suspended time.
TASHA: Where's Commander Riker?
WORF: He was with us.
LAFORGE: He must still be on the planet. We were under attack by these, these animal things.
PICARD: Animal things?
LAFORGE: Well, maybe Data could explain better, sir.
DATA: You may find it esthetically displeasing, sir. I could just file a computer report on that.
PICARD: Data!
TASHA: Sir, the important thing right now is why is Commander Riker missing?
PICARD: Understood, Lieutenant, but I suspect that Commander Riker is probably perfectly safe, at least in a physical sense. Q has an interest in him. In fact, Q's entire visit has something to do with our First Officer.
DATA: And the reason for that, sir?
PICARD: I wish I knew. Q first became interested in him at Farpoint. I have no idea what it means. Meanwhile, we must proceed with our rescue mission.

[Planet surface]
Q: Something amuses you? Perhaps you'll share the joke with me?
RIKER: The joke is you.
Q: Strange gratitude, from one who has been granted a gift beyond any human dream. How can you not appreciate being able to send your friends back to their ship, or sending the soldiers back to the nothingness from which they came? Certainly, you must understand that at this moment you can send yourself back to the ship or to Earth, or change your shape and become anything else you want to be.
RIKER: What do you need, Q?
Q: Need?
RIKER: You want something from us, desperately. What is it?
Q: Want something from you foolish, fragile, non-entities? Oh come, Riker. You're beginning to sound like your Captain.
RIKER: Now that's a compliment, Q. But that's not an answer.
Q: Riker, we have offered you a gift beyond all other gifts!
RIKER: Out of the goodness of your heart.
Q: After Farpoint, I returned to where we exist. The Q Continuum.
RIKER: Which means exactly what?
Q: The limitless dimensions of the galaxy in which we exist.
RIKER: I don't understand.
Q: Of course you don't, and you never will until you become one of us.
RIKER: Until? Would you mind going over that again?
Q: Well if you'll stop interrupting me. This is hardly a time to be teaching you the true nature of the universe. However, at Farpoint we saw you as savages only. We discovered instead that you are unusual creatures in your own limited ways. Ways which in time will not be so limited.
RIKER: We're growing. Something about us compels us to learn, explore.
Q: Yes, the human compulsion. And unfortunately for us, it is a power which will grow stronger century after century, eon after eon.
RIKER: Eons. Have you any idea how far we'll advance?
Q: Perhaps in a future that you cannot yet conceive, even beyond us. So you see, we must know more about this human condition. That's why we've selected you, Riker, to become part of the Q, so that you can bring to us this human need and hunger, that we may understand it.
RIKER: I suppose you mean that as a compliment, Q. Or maybe it's my limited mind. But to become a part of you? I don't even like you.
Q: You're going to miss me!
LAFORGE: Come on, not again!
WESLEY: Commander Riker, what's going on? I was sitting in school and
TASHA: Worf, my phaser's gone. Are you armed?
WORF: No.
PICARD: Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this?
WESLEY: Worf!
RIKER: Look out!
PICARD: Wesley, no!
RIKER: Wesley!
PICARD: Wesley!
RIKER: No! Damn it! Damn it to hell!
PICARD: Riker. You! You did that!
RIKER: And that's not all!

[Bridge]
PICARD: That grid, their wounds. Only the Q can do that.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes out from Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disaster desperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer William T. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out of my experience. Out of any human's experience.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Will. How the hell do I advise you? You know the implications as well as I.
RIKER: No one has ever offered to turn me into a god before.
PICARD: What the Q has offered you has got to be close to immortality, Will. They're not lying about controlling space and time. We've seen it in what they can do.
RIKER: You've also seen it in what I can do.
PICARD: If you are going to refuse his offer, you must not allow yourself to use this power again. It's too great a temptation for us at our present stage of development.
RIKER: Are you worried that I won't be able to say no to it?
PICARD: You tell me. Are you strong enough to refuse to use that power.
RIKER: Certainly.
PICARD: No matter how tempted? No matter how difficult Q makes it for you?
RIKER: You have my word.
PICARD: Good. I know what your word means.
DATA (voiceover): In orbit of Quadra Sigma Three, sir. Ready to beam down rescue team to underground emergency area.

[Disaster Area]
DATA: This way sir.
RIKER: Are there any others?
WOMAN: Gone. It's just us.
LAFORGE: Commander. There's someone under here.
LAFORGE: You're getting close, Data.
CRUSHER: It's too late. She's dead. If only we'd gotten here a little sooner.
DATA: Sir, if indeed you have the power of Q.
CRUSHER: I don't understand. Certainly you can't bring her back to life.
RIKER: I can't. I'm prevented from that by a promise.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I should never have made that agreement with you. I could have saved that child.
PICARD: You were right not to try. Once you became accustomed to that power, Number One.
RIKER: When I used it before, what happened? I saved most of our Bridge crew.
PICARD: And when you grow to like it too much?
RIKER: As soon as it's convenient Captain, I want a meeting with you and your Bridge staff.
PICARD: As soon as we are secure of this rescue operation, I'll discuss all of this new power
PICARD: We can confer here on the Bridge, if no one has any objections.
RIKER: The Bridge will be fine, since I've called the entire staff.
PICARD: Correction, Number One. Knowing the decision you face, I have permitted you this gathering.
RIKER: Of course, Jean-Luc.
RIKER: Wesley, this meeting is not for you.
WESLEY: Why not, sir? You helped make me a Bridge officer. Acting Ensign.
RIKER: All right, he stays. Because I've been given unusual powers, I am not suddenly a monster. Except for these abilities, and I don't yet know how far they go, I'm the same William T. Riker you've always known. Well? Everyone still looks uncomfortable.
PICARD: Perhaps they're all remembering that old saying. Power corrupts.
RIKER: And absolute power corrupts absolutely. Do you believe I haven't thought of that, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: And have you noticed how you and I are now on a first name basis? Number One, Will, something has happened already.
RIKER: In what way? Haven't you seen how much I regretted not saving that child? Using the Q power to save her may not have been wrong. No more than it was wrong to save the rest of you from those soldier things.
PICARD: Let's keep in mind that that particular danger was invented by Q.
TASHA: What we represent to the Q, Commander, are lowly animals, tormented into performing for their amusement.
RIKER: Actually, they think highly of us, Tasha. We have a quality of growth which they admire.
LAFORGE: Or fear.
PICARD: No, we've learned the Q do not admire us. The Q has muddled your mind.
RIKER: Don't you understand his incredible gift to me?
Q: Are these truly your friends, brother?
Q: Let us pray. For understanding and for compassion.
PICARD: Let us do no such damned thing! What is this need of yours for costumes, Q? Have you no identity of your own?
Q: I come in search of the truth.
PICARD: You come in search of what humanity is!
Q: I forgive your blasphemy.
PICARD: Don't you see, Riker? He's nothing but a flim-flam man! He's been that ever since we first met him at Farpoint.
WORF: Flim-flam?
Q: You offer Riker jealousy. What I offer him is clearly beyond your comprehension. How can you claim friendship for Riker while obstructing his way to the greatest adventure ever offered a human?
PICARD: Obstructing him? Then it's not yet certain. He's not yet committed.
Q: The truly evil part of this, Captain, is your jealousy. You love each one of your people. Demonstrate it. You have the power to leave each of them with a gift proving your affection.
RIKER: There'd be no harm, would there, if I gave them something I know they'd like?
Q: How touching. A plea to his former Captain. May I please give some happiness to my friends, sir? Please sir?
PICARD: In fact I authorize and support your idea, Riker. Please, feel free to cooperate with him if you wish.
DATA: Are you certain, sir?
PICARD: Quite certain, Data. By all means, demonstrate your gifts of affection.
RIKER: Don't be frightened. There is no way I could harm any of you. Shall I guess your dreams?
CRUSHER: Leave now, Wesley.
RIKER: No! Wesley, I may know best of all. Our friendship, our long talks
CRUSHER: No, please!
RIKER: Have your favorite wish, my young friend.
RIKER: You're ten years older. A man.
LAFORGE: Hey, Wes. Not bad.
RIKER: Data.
DATA: No. No, sir.
RIKER: But it's what you've always wanted, Data, to become human.
DATA: Yes, sir, that is true. But I never wanted to compound one illusion with another. It might be real to Q, perhaps even you, sir. But it would not be so to me. Was it not one of the Captain's favorite authors who wrote, This above all, to thine own self be true? Sorry, Commander, I must decline.
RIKER: Well, my friend, I know what you want.
LAFORGE: You're as beautiful as I imagined, and more.
RIKER: Then we can throw away the visor?
LAFORGE: I don't think so, sir. The price is a little high for me, and I don't like who I would have to thank. Make me the way I was. Please!
RIKER: Proud warrior Worf, without a single tie to his own kind.
WORF: No! She is from a world now alien to me!
LAFORGE: Worf, is this your idea of sex?
WORF: This is sex. But I have no place for it in my life now.
Q: No place, micro-brain? What possesses you?
WESLEY: Commander Riker, it's too soon for this.
RIKER: If this is because your mother objects?
WESLEY: No. I just want to get there on my own. Honest.
Q: But it's easier, boy. Listen to Riker.
RIKER: How did you know, sir? I feel like such an idiot.
PICARD: Quite right. So you should. It's all over, Q. You have no further business here.
Q: Human, you have just destroyed yourself.
PICARD: Pay off your wager.
Q: I recall no wager!
PICARD: I'm sure your fellow Q remember you agreed to never trouble our species again. Just as they're aware you failed to tempt a human to join you.
Q: No, if I could just do one more thing.
PICARD: Q, I strongly suspect it's some explaining you have to do now.
PICARD: Extraordinary!
LAFORGE: Captain, we are showing that same hole in time again. Our instruments say we've just now beamed back from our rescue mission.
DATA: Sir, how is it that the Q can handle time and space so well, and us so badly?
PICARD: Perhaps some day we will discover that space and time are simpler than the human equation. No coordinates laid in, Number One?
RIKER: Yes, sir. You have my coordinates, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. On the board.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41309.5. We are in orbit around Persephone Five, where I have been sent to confer with Admiral Mark Jameson in regard to an extraordinary situation.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Starfleet received this subspace transmission two days ago, Admiral.
JAMESON (screen): Let's see it, Captain.
PICARD: On viewer.
KARNAS (screen): I am Karnas, governor of Mordan Four. A dissident group of terrorists have taken Federation Ambassador Hawkins and his staff hostage. They will not discuss terms with me. This is a crisis I cannot resolve. The terrorists are demanding a Federation negotiator. I feel there is only one negotiator with the skills to resolve the situation. The lives of the hostages will depend on Starfleet delivering this man to Mordan. Commander Mark Jameson. Admiral Jameson. The terrorists have given you six Earth days to bring him here, or the hostages will die.
PICARD: Starfleet cannot understand how or why this situation has developed. Mordan Four has finally gained peace after decades of civil war
JAMESON (screen): Forty years of civil war, Captain.
PICARD: Yes, sir. Karnas was largely responsible for the planet's unification and peace. Why should he now be unable to deal with this rebellious faction?
JAMESON (screen): Forty-five years ago I negotiated a hostage situation on Mordan, Captain. Karnas was a young man then, but so was I. He seems to feel that I can handle the situation again.
PICARD: I'm detailed to take you to Mordan Four as soon as you can be ready, Admiral.
JAMESON: My wife and I will beam aboard at fifteen hundred hours, Captain. Acknowledge.
PICARD: Received and acknowledged, sir. Picard out.
TROI: Nearly fifteen hundred now, sir.
PICARD: Well, Number One, let's go and welcome the Admiral aboard.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Admiral. This is my Executive Officer, Commander William Riker.
RIKER: My pleasure, sir. Ma'am.
JAMESON: My wife, Anne. Captain, there are certain details of this mission that you should understand before we begin.
PICARD: Yes, sir.
JAMESON: I am not simply an advisor. On any assignment I accompany, Starfleet has designated me Senior Mission Officer. I control the away team and all its actions. Is that understood? Of course, Captain, you command the ship, but the mission is mine. I trust you are in complete agreement.
PICARD: Yes, sir. Of course.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Message coming in from Mordan, sir.
PICARD: Put it on the screen, Mister Data.
KARNAS (screen): Mordan Four to Enterprise. This is Karnas. I will speak to the Captain.
PICARD: I am Captain Picard, commanding the Enterprise.
KARNAS (screen): Is Admiral Jameson on board?
PICARD: He's here, beside my First Officer. Do you wish to speak to him now?
KARNAS (screen): So, Jameson. I see time has not been kind.
JAMESON: It seldom is, Karnas. However, we could save a good deal of it now if you'll outline the terrorists' demands.
KARNAS (screen): They insist all discussions will take place here on Mordan. They refuse to speak to me, only to a Federation mediator. They say they will brook no excuses. If there are any offered, your ambassador and his people will die. Unpleasantly. I believe them. So should you, Admiral.
JAMESON: Tell them I accept the conditions of negotiation.
KARNAS (screen): I will do so immediately.
RIKER: For a man in his position, he doesn't seem to know much about the situation.
JAMESON: Wrong, Number One. He told me that the terrorists are desperate enough to kill if they're crossed. They are willing to talk, one on one, but not to him.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: From his body language as well as his words and tone, I'd judge that what Karnas said was honest. But I sensed a holding back.
PICARD: Perhaps he knows more about the terrorists than he's prepared to admit.
JAMESON: Possible, but I suspect it's closer to the mark if we said he doesn't want to admit failure of his own efforts to negotiate. He is a proud man.
TROI: That could be, sir. Karnas has established himself as a powerful man on Mordan. Suddenly, in this situation, his power is useless.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge. I'm ready for Admiral Jameson now.
PICARD: In a few moments, Doctor.
JAMESON: Ready for what, Captain?
PICARD: Just a routine medical checkup. Ship's regulations.

[Ready room]
RIKER: What I don't understand, sir, is how Karnas knew you were still available.
JAMESON: Still alive, you mean.
RIKER: So far as he knew, sir, you could have been dead.
JAMESON: Quite right, Commander, but I am not, and I imagine Ambassador Hawkins has told him that. I briefed the Ambassador about Mordan before he left to take up residence.
PICARD: All right. Karnas has a problem he thinks you can resolve. What do the terrorists need that Karnas can't, or won't, give them?
DATA: Mordan has had peace for five years. They have finally come to a state of productivity which satisfies their planetary needs, but no more than that. Perhaps the dissidents feel the Federation could provide them with more.
JAMESON: I have negotiated many treaties on many planets, Picard. I've found that peace, or the appearance of it, is often a prelude to war.
TROI: Admiral, are you suggesting the terrorists want arms and weapons?
JAMESON: They may. I am suggesting Karnas is the last man to give them such weapons.
TROI: I see. You believe that Karnas would not negotiate on that point, and so the terrorists demanded an outside negotiator.
JAMESON: I know Karnas. He is a warrior. He lives for challenge. These people have insulted his honor by taking the embassy staff hostage. I'll negotiate, but I'll have to be very careful in dealing with Karnas. He'll want revenge for that insult.

[Jameson's quarters]
ANNE: Well, it's about time. Couldn't get away from the Bridge?
JAMESON: Didn't want to. Feels good to be on one again.
ANNE: I'm glad, Mark. Do you want me to help you up?
ANNE: You're stronger today.
JAMESON: I'm fine. I feel like a kid again.
ANNE: This ship is magnificent. It even has family quarters. Pity we didn't have them twenty, thirty years ago. We could have been together almost all of your career. Mark! Mark? I'll get Sickbay.
JAMESON: No. There's no need. It's happened before.
ANNE: When? You haven't said anything.
JAMESON: It'll pass. Just give me a moment. See, I'm better. It's going away.
ANNE: What is it? Do the doctors know?
JAMESON: Just body changes. Last checkup they said I'd have to expect it.
ANNE: You're sure? Don't lie to me.
JAMESON: I'm sure.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: All the medical information the Admiral provided is satisfactory, sir.
PICARD: Excellent, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Except for one thing. The test results he gave me aren't two days old, they're two months old. The medical file coder always includes the date as part of the file number. He lied to me, sir, and I don't know why.
PICARD: He is eighty five years old, Doctor. For some, the memory begins to fail.
CRUSHER: He suffers from Iverson's Disease, sir. It affects the body, not the mind. No, I have a gut feeling he's hiding something.
PICARD: That is an observation I'd expect from Counselor Troi. Doctor. Doctor, I do respect your opinion, and I'll want you on the Bridge for the next day or so. The Admiral must remain in the best of health for these negotiations, and he might require your services.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Admiral, we're approaching the Idini Star Cluster. Would you like to take the conn as we make transit?
JAMESON: Thank you, Captain. I would.
PICARD: Well, Admiral, quite a little surprise you've pulled on us.
CRUSHER: Yes, quite.
JAMESON: Neglected to mention I began some new therapy before I left. Seems to be working. I haven't felt this good since the last time I was in space. The Gettysburg. All I needed to get me out of that chair was the thought of walking the decks in command of a starship again.
PICARD: Admiral, you only have the conn temporarily.
JAMESON: A figure of speech. Of course she's your ship. I'll just keep an eye on her for a while.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The admiral displayed a remarkable improvement out there, wouldn't you say?
CRUSHER: Captain, no one recovers from Iverson's Disease. There is no known cure, and there are no cases where it has gone into remission. I have never heard of any therapy that would produce results like that.
PICARD: Then how do you account for it?
CRUSHER: I can't. All I can tell you is that the Admiral has been confined to his support chair for the last four years by the effects of Iverson's. By all the medical facts we know, he should never have walked again.
PICARD: I want you to look into it, Doctor. Thoroughly.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Jameson's quarters]
KARNAS (screen): The terrorists have given you six Earth days to bring him here, or the hostages will die.
ANNE: I don't know how much more information you think you can get from that tape. Mark! My God, what's happened?
JAMESON: It's the new therapy I'm taking. It's working, Annie.
ANNE: Oh, darling!
ANNE: Mark?
JAMESON: I told you I just needed to get back into space again.
ANNE: You really are looking much better.
JAMESON: It's the new treatment.
ANNE: No. Come here.
JAMESON: I hope you're heading for the bedroom.
ANNE: You stop it.
ANNE: Darling, you look like you looked twenty years ago.
JAMESON: You're flatter me.
ANNE: Now you tell me what the hell is going on?
JAMESON: I don't know
ANNE: Sickbay! Medical emergency in the Admiral's quarters!

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I found traces of chemical substances in his blood and tissue samples, but none of them are in our pharmacopeia. I'm still working on alien references to substances like these. All I can tell you is that he's ingested something that's strongly affecting his body.
PICARD: Specifics, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Captain, there are so many things going on, I can't give you specifics until I do a lot more tests.
PICARD: Give me what you have now.
CRUSHER: His red cell count is running riot. The cellular structure of his body is radically changing, but we can't make any decisions on that until we know what it's changing to. His DNA is skewed. Don't ask me how, but he even looks younger. And Captain, there are absolutely no traces of Iverson's Disease.
PICARD: You said there is no cure for Iverson's.
CRUSHER: None that we know of. But whatever these substances are doing to his body, at least they've done that for him. But how or why? It's too early to say.
PICARD: Get me some answers, Doctor. As soon as possible.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Jameson's quarters]
ANNE: Captain.
PICARD: Mrs. Jameson, I have to ask the Admiral some questions.
JAMESON: Ask away. There's nothing to hide now.
PICARD: Admiral, in addition to your rank, you are a particularly valuable commodity just now. Starfleet has a right to some answers.
JAMESON: I've planned this for a long time, ever since I learned I had Iverson's Disease. Since it put me in that chair.
ANNE: What did you do, Mark?
JAMESON: There's a planet in the Cerebus system, Cerebus Two. They say the natives have a process that rejuvenates the body, gives you your youth back.
PICARD: Yes, I've heard of that story. It's a myth.
JAMESON: It's true, Picard. I'm living proof. Oh, it's dangerous. The mortality rate is high, and it's very painful. Aliens are seldom allowed to obtain the process, but I managed it. I negotiated a treaty for Cerebus Two some years ago, and they felt obligated to honor my request for the process.
PICARD: Obviously it works very rapidly, but how does it work?
JAMESON: The herb and drug combinations are self-administered slowly over a period of two years. Every response is different, depending on a being's DNA. I got enough for both of us, Annie, but I had to test it on myself first. I couldn't risk you. If I died, well, I was half a man, so what did it matter.
ANNE: It would matter to me.
JAMESON: But I was starting to change, Anne. It was almost undetectable, but the improvement was there. Then when this hostage situation came up, I knew I'd have to be at my peak to deal with it. I didn't have time to wait for the drug to work naturally.
PICARD: So you took the whole dose.
JAMESON: I took both of them. And look at me, Annie, look at me. I'm strong. I'm alert, Fit. I'm fitter than you are, Picard. And I'm getting younger!
PICARD: The only question I have, Admiral, is why you thought it necessary to be young to negotiate the release of the hostages. Even willing to put your life at risk for it. I'll be on the Bridge, Admiral, if you want to talk further.
ANNE: Why didn't you tell me, Mark? We've always been honest with each other, until now.
JAMESON: Annie, I did it for us.
ANNE: Oh, I'm sure you believed that, until you had a chance to head up a mission, to command again, and then you just upended the bottle or whatever it was, and damn everything. Did you think about me at all?
JAMESON: I obtained enough of the dosage for both of us.
ANNE: But you never asked if I wanted it. It's just like you, Mark, to assume that what you felt was right was the only answer.
JAMESON: But it was the right answer for me. It was killing you, having to take care of an invalid. Annie, what good was I to you? We can be together again.
ANNE: Let me go!
JAMESON: I can get you another supply of the drug.

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: Commander Data, I wish to open a communication frequency to Karnas.

[Bridge]
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: One moment, Mister Data. Admiral, this is Picard. May I know the reason for this communication?

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: Karnas must have tried to negotiate with the terrorists before he was forced to call on me. I want all the information he has access to.

[Bridge]
PICARD: You said Karnas was a proud man, Admiral, probably sensitive about his failure to deal with this situation. Is it wise to press him on this?

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: I'm the negotiator, Picard.

[Bridge]
JAMESON (voiceover): Karnas will have to cooperate with me and the terrorists, and damn his sensitivities.
PICARD: Then I suggest a secured channel, Admiral.

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: A sensible precaution, Picard. Make it so.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Aye, sir. Frequency open and secured.

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: Karnas.
KARNAS (voiceover): What is it you want, Admiral?
JAMESON: We're on a secured channel, Karnas. You can talk freely. Who's behind this thing? You said dissidents.
KARNAS (screen): Yes, political opponents who feel the Federation will disavow me as Governor if they stir up enough trouble on Mordan.
JAMESON: Then who is it? Ardan? Gilnor?
KARNAS (screen): They're dead, Jameson. A long time now. For a long time I thought you were dead, too.
JAMESON: I almost died a couple of times on missions, but I always made it through somehow.
KARNAS (screen): Yes. Now you're coming back to Mordan to negotiate for hostages again. It's almost as though the forty five years in-between never happened.
JAMESON: You've never forgiven me.
KARNAS (screen): Of course I have. It was years ago.
JAMESON: There are no dissidents, are there? No terrorists. You have the hostages.
KARNAS (screen): And if I have? You're coming to Mordan, Jameson, and you're going to negotiate for their lives. And I'm going to ask a very, very high price.
JAMESON: What if I refuse?
KARNAS (screen): Then the hostages will die. You've seen how my executioners work. They are still as efficient as they were, perhaps even more skilled now. You'll come, even if you don't have much honor left.

[Bridge]
JAMESON: Conn, are we still on schedule to arrive at Mordan in thirty eight hours?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We're at warp four.
JAMESON: Picard, I want a jump to warp eight, so that we arrive ahead of our announced ETA. It'll throw Karnas off balance, and we can catch him before he's ready.
PICARD: Ready for exactly what, Admiral?
JAMESON: I believe Karnas has the hostages, and there never were any dissidents.
PICARD: What has happened to bring you to that conclusion? That's quite a big jump.
JAMESON: I'm not at liberty to say, Picard, but negotiations are no longer the answer.
PICARD: Isn't the most important thing the hostage's lives?
JAMESON: And you agree with that too, Riker?
RIKER: I do, sir.
JAMESON: Good. Because I plan to personally lead an away team on an armed rescue mission to get them out of there.
JAMESON: Commander Data, bring up the plans I requested on the viewscreen, please.
DATA: Aye, sir.
JAMESON: Most of Mordan's principal city was devastated during the war. What was left consisted largely of a network of underground tunnels. A rat's maze. When they rebuilt the city, they simply built over the tunnels.
DATA: I have it, sir.
LAFORGE: Pardon me, sir, but where do these tunnels come into the picture?
JAMESON: This is where Karnas held his hostages before and where I believe he has them now.
PICARD: Wouldn't that be a little obvious, Admiral?
JAMESON: Karnas is a dogged strategist, Picard, not a brilliant one. He sticks to what works. He will kill the hostages if we do not get them out of there.
PICARD: Therefore you see this armed raid as the only option.
JAMESON: You don't agree?
PICARD: With respect, Admiral, I would point out no one else has heard or considered Karnas's demands. The Federation might view them differently if they knew what they were.
JAMESON: Starfleet has given me command of the away team, Picard, and I intend to use them as I see fit.

[Doctor's office]
ANNE: Our anniversary is next week. Our fiftieth.
CRUSHER: In his heart, he's still the same man you married, Anne.
TROI: That's true. He still cares for you, despite the physical changes he's undergoing.
ANNE: But he's getting younger, and I'm, well look at me. Why did he do this?
TROI: Because there are lives at stake, Mrs. Jameson.
ANNE: What about our lives, his and mine? I was looking forward to time together finally. Our retirement. Now he's young again, and has his life to live over.
TROI: Doctor, she has to know.
ANNE: Know what?
CRUSHER: Anne, your husband.
ANNE: What is it?
CRUSHER: He's not stabilizing. He may not have that life to live over.

[Observation lounge]
JAMESON: We'll be at Mordan in three hours.
PICARD: I couldn't sleep either.
JAMESON: I never could before a mission. I always wound up in the observation lounge, staring out at the stars, thinking.
PICARD: Perhaps in this case, rethinking?
PICARD: Why is this mission so important to you? Why did you risk your life to lead it personally?
JAMESON: I want to save lives, Captain.
PICARD: Noble sentiments, but that's too easy an answer. You've been here before. You negotiated a release of the hostages with Karnas before. Why is it now your answer is an armed raid? It's my away team you're sending in there. I think there's something you're not telling me, and I have a right to know what it is.
JAMESON: Do you know the background? The Mordanites had some sophistication, but were still ruled by tribal family units. Karnas's father was the ruling chief of one of the families. Another tribe had him assassinated. Karnas seized the passengers of a starliner and held them hostage, demanding that Starfleet provide him with weapons that would enable him to defeat his rivals.
PICARD: That's the official record.
JAMESON: Officially, the story is that after two other mediators were murdered, I went in and negotiated with Karnas to bring out the hostages safely.
PICARD: Are you saying that's not the truth?
JAMESON: It wasn't my golden oratory that saved them, Captain. I gave Karnas the weapons he wanted.
PICARD: You did what?
JAMESON: I gave exactly the same weapons to his rivals. My interpretation of the Prime Directive. Let them solve their problems with those arms on an equal basis.
PICARD: And that decision plunged them into forty years of civil war.
JAMESON: I didn't know that would happen. I thought a minor war. It would be settled in less than a year. How would I know it would take four decades? But I falsified the reports to Starfleet, and I lived with that on my soul, Picard. Sixty-three people came away safe but millions died on Mordan because I delivered those weapons.
PICARD: Karnas could have worked for peace during those years instead of continuing the war. It's not all on your head, Admiral.
JAMESON: But I started it. I lit the match. Now finally I can vindicate myself, if only in a small way. I came to negotiate, but that isn't what Karnas wants.
PICARD: Revenge. That's why he demanded you when he knew that you were still alive.
JAMESON: And I'm not going to give it to him, Picard. I'm going to do what I should have done the first time. We're taking the hostages out by force, if necessary. No deals.

[Transporter room]
JAMESON: Prepare to energize, Chief.
PICARD: Belay that. Admiral, your proper place is on the Bridge.
JAMESON: I will remind you one more time, Picard, I am the Senior Mission Commander and I'm leading this team.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The Admiral is correct, Number One. He has that right. But I am the Captain of this ship, and I have a right to accompany him. Riker, you're in command of the Enterprise. Energize.

[Tunnel]
JAMESON: Yes, perfect. We are in the M4 tunnel, directly under the Governor's residence. M-4 is a subsidiary tunnel, but it crosses and links with several main ones.
DATA: I am sorry, sir. That does not correspond with the information in my tricorder, sir.
JAMESON: Your information is incorrect, Commander. I know these tunnels like the back of my own hand. Keep scanning for signs of human life forms. Karnas held his hostages in these tunnels before. He'll do it again.
DATA: Captain, the Admiral is definitely incorrect. The tunnel schematics we have show this to be a dead end. It was sealed off two years ago.
PICARD: No doubt you're right, Mister Data. However, forty five years ago, I'm sure it linked in with the tunnels the Admiral remembers.
JAMESON: Damn.
PICARD: Geordi?
LAFORGE: This is steelplast, sir. Fairly recent installation.
JAMESON: This is the most direct route. Set phasers to cut through it.
TASHA: If you have the coordinates where you think the hostages are, sir, we could just beam in over there.
JAMESON: Karnas may not have them in the same place. There's no substitute, Lieutenant, for personal reconnoiter.
LAFORGE: Admiral, there's an infrared light signal ahead. Steady beam, straight across the tunnel, chest high. There's another at waist level.
TASHA: An alarm trigger or
PICARD: Reset phasers to stun.
PICARD: Take cover!
WORF: Sir, look out!
DATA: Their phasers, sir, set on kill.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. I have heard the sound before.
TASHA: Is he hit?
DATA: No sign of a wound.
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Six to beam up, now!

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Admiral?
PICARD: Sickbay. Not good is a galactic understatement.
LAFORGE: Sir? Karnas again, sir. On screen.
KARNAS (screen): Enterprise. There has been an armed intrusion in the tunnels beneath the city. That smells of Jameson. Where is he?
PICARD: Karnas, this is Picard. I'm sorry to inform you the Admiral is critically ill.
KARNAS (screen): That is not my concern. Sick or well, you have ten minutes to beam him down.
TROI (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge.
PICARD: Picard.
TROI (voiceover): Doctor Crusher

[Sickbay]
TROI: Requests your presence in Sickbay immediately, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I think you'd better see for yourself, Captain.
JAMESON: Picard. Picard, I have to get to Karnas.
CRUSHER: I can't allow him out of my care, Captain.
JAMESON: It's my last option, Picard. The raid failed. All I have left to bargain with is myself.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER (voiceover): A new message from Karnas, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If we don't deliver Jameson in five minutes, one of the hostages will be executed.

[Sickbay]
RIKER (voiceover): Fifteen minutes after that, another.

[Bridge]
RIKER: He promises the method of execution will be most painful.

[Sickbay]
JAMESON: Let me go. If I give myself over to him, he'll let the hostages go. It's me he wants.
PICARD: It means almost certain death for you, Admiral.
JAMESON: My life for how many hostages, Picard? Twenty? Let me go.
PICARD: Number One, inform Karnas we'll be beaming down in less than five minutes.
RIKER (voiceover): Did you say we, sir?
PICARD: You have your orders, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Karnas's office]
KARNAS: Who are you? I want Jameson.
PICARD: Karnas, this is Admiral Mark Jameson.
KARNAS: This charade will accomplish nothing, Picard. Beam down Jameson, and the hostages will be freed. Continue this and I promise you they will die. And you with them.
JAMESON: Peretor Karnas, you always were a stubborn man. I thought you wanted me. I'm here. Release the hostages now.
KARNAS: Peretor was my old title. Why do you call me that? I warn you, Picard. This trick is going too far. He has been coached for some devious reason. If this farce does not stopped immediately, you and the hostages will be put to death.
PICARD: Doctor!
KARNAS: I am waiting for an explanation, Captain.
PICARD: He is the Admiral, Karnas. Before he left on this mission, he administered an overdose of an alien de-aging drug to himself. He wanted to face you with strength again, on even terms. This is what the drug has done to him.
KARNAS: This story you are telling is unbelievable. Jameson is a man of more than eighty years, not this. I want that old man, Picard. I want to show him this world he helped to make. The scars on old soldiers' bodies. The graveyards of our young dead. The wasted cities we are still rebuilding. And all of it caused by him.
PICARD: As I understand it, Karnas, you were the one who demanded the weapons to avenge your father's death.
KARNAS: But Jameson didn't give weapons to only us. If he had, we would have quickly triumphed over our enemies, and there would have been peace in all these decades. I want him to pay for that, Picard.
CRUSHER: Captain, I think Mrs. Jameson should beam down now.
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Have Mrs. Jameson prepare to beam down. Karnas, I asked Doctor Crusher to bring with her the visual records we've made of Admiral Jameson's deterioration. Will you look at them?
KARNAS: You're wasting my time, Picard.
PICARD: Just a few moments. You saw the Admiral on the Enterprise when he was en route to Mordan?
KARNAS: Yes.
PICARD: And you recognized him?
KARNAS: Yes.
PICARD: Is this the man you saw?
KARNAS: This is the man I want.
PICARD: He's here, Karnas. Look. Once he took the compound there was no way to stop it.
PICARD: You'll have to deal with me, Karnas. Whatever you wanted from Jameson isn't possible any more. And you wanted revenge. You blamed your war on him, and there's no doubt he had a lot to do with it. But you had the weapons and you used them. You could have tried for negotiations for peace on your planet long ago. Instead you chose to fight. How many of those forty years of civil war are on your head, Karnas?
KARNAS: Jameson has to pay for his crimes. I have sworn it to my people.
PICARD: Forty five years ago he made the wrong decision. He wanted to come here to somehow right it, to atone for what he did. Now all he can do is to give himself up to you. He brought this retribution on himself.
KARNAS: No. I don't believe you. You're shielding Jameson on the ship and you're telling me this tale to save his life.
JAMESON: Peretor Karnas, there were only two of us in the meeting. You didn't even trust your lieutenants there. You told me that old Peretor Sain had ordered your father's assassination. You told me that you wanted arms to destroy him. Peace wasn't on your mind. All you wanted was revenge. And I gave you the weapons to do it.
KARNAS: Jameson told you this. If it is you, show me the scar.
JAMESON: There. The blood cut you gave me to seal our bargain.
KARNAS: It is you. Somehow it is you. Then die by your own weapon! No. No, my revenge will be in seeing you live like this. Such pain.
CRUSHER: The compound he took is forcing his cells and organs to go further, younger, and they can't take the stress. It's like they're imploding. And I can't give him anything to stop it.
PICARD: Can you ease the pain?
ANNE: Mark, can you hear me?
JAMESON: Yes.
ANNE: I'll always love you.
JAMESON: Annie with the golden hair.
ANNE: Flatterer. It's gray now.
JAMESON: I see only the gold.
KARNAS: Rest, Jameson. Your long night, and mine, are over. The hostages will be freed immediately, Captain. I'm prepared to be cooperative.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The hostages have been freed by Karnas, unharmed, and the body of Admiral Mark Jameson has been buried on Mordan, at the request of his widow and by the permission of Karnas. The quest for youth, Number One. So futile. Age and wisdom have their graces too.
RIKER: I wonder if one doesn't have to have age and wisdom to appreciate that, sir.
PICARD: I hope not, Number One. Mister La Forge, prepare to take us out of orbit. Set course for Isis Three.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Leaving orbit.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Unless it's followed by?
TROI: The double bars indicate an elongated S sound.
PICARD: And the inverted T means to hold the Z.
TROI: Unless?
PICARD: Unless it's followed by three wavy lines, in which case the Z becomes a B.
TROI: Exactly.
PICARD: What a language.
TROI: But you spell knife with a K.
PICARD: I spell knife with an N. But then, I never could spell.
TROI: Well, this is an insect mind, sir.
PICARD: My mind is barely working.
TROI: Take a break.
PICARD: No, no. I want to go over this again.
TROI: You could be over-preparing. You've been looking forward to the upgrade of the holodeck. You have the time. Captain, you need the diversion.
PICARD: Dixon Hill.
TROI: The program's installed and waiting.

[Outside Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Program desired location.
PICARD: Earth, United States, San Francisco, California.
COMPUTER: Time period?
PICARD: 1941, A.D.
COMPUTER: File or access code.
PICARD: File Dixon Hill, private detective.
COMPUTER: Enter when ready. Captain's personal log. I'm entering the ship's holodeck, where images of reality can be created by our computer. Highly useful in crew training, highly enjoyable when used for games and recreation.

[Hill's Waiting room]
SECRETARY: Very funny, Dix. What'd you do, lose another bet?
PICARD: I'm sorry, I don't understand.
SECRETARY: The bellboy suit. Are you moonlighting at the Fremont?
PICARD: The uniform. It's totally inappropriate. I should have changed.
SECRETARY: Detective Bell, your cop friend, McNary's new partner, was here nosing around. If he'd have seen you in those threads he'd have you sent to the funny farm. Mister Leech called twice, and there's a lady named Bradley waiting in your office. Nice legs. Not you. Her. Got a hot date with my fella. See you in the morning.
PICARD: I lost a bet.
JESSICA: Oh well, at least you're ready for Halloween.
PICARD: Halloween?
JESSICA: I need your help, Mister Hill. Someone is trying to kill me. Captain's personal log. I'm delighted with how the Holodeck has created the fictional world of Dixon Hill, the twentieth century detective who has been a hero of mine since childhood. The illusion is flawless. The characters I meet are generated by the computer, of course, yet they feel real, they seem real in every way.

[Hill's office]
JESSICA: I'm not sure who wants me dead. My husband, my stepdaughter.
PICARD: Or a lover, perhaps?
JESSICA: Perhaps. Or perhaps it's Cyrus Redblock. I need you to find out. Name your fee.
PICARD: Twenty dollars a day, plus expenses.
JESSICA: Agreed.
PICARD: I haven't said yes yet.
JESSICA: Oh, you'll say yes, Mister Hill. If it is Redblock, he must think I've got what he's looking for. But believe me, I don't.
PICARD: I'll take your word for it.
JESSICA: Here's a C-note in advance. Consider it a retainer. And next time, wear a suit. Au revoir.
PICARD: Remarkable. Exit.
PICARD: You'll have to call again. I'm just leaving. I'm not dressed properly. I'll be back.
LEECH: Mister Hill? Where are you?

[Outside Holodeck]
PICARD: Memory, save current setting.
COMPUTER: Current setting saved.
PICARD: Holodeck off.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: And when I looked down into the street, I actually saw automobiles!
WORF: Automobiles?
DATA: An ancient Earth device used primarily for transportation.
WORF: Ah.
DATA: Also seen as a source of status and virility. Often a prime ingredient in teenage mating rituals.
WESLEY: Teenage mating rituals?
PICARD: From that window, I could see an entire, er
DATA: City block.
PICARD: That's right. Sounds, Smells.
CRUSHER: You make it sound so real.
PICARD: That's how it felt.
CRUSHER: Incredible.
PICARD: I'm going to go again, only this time I'm going to dress the part. Why not come with me?
CRUSHER: Yes, I'd like that.
PICARD: I want to take that twentieth century historian.
CRUSHER: Who? Whalen?
PICARD: Yes, Whalen. I bet he knows more about Dixon Hill than I do.
DATA: Shall I tell him, sir?
PICARD: Invite him, Mister Data. This is supposed to be a recreational activity. The sense of reality was absolutely incredible. When that woman kissed me, it was so
CRUSHER: Exciting?
PICARD: Real. The subject of this meeting is the Jaradan rendezvous. Mister Riker, will you go ahead with the briefing.
RIKER: This is primarily a diplomatic mission. The Jaradan are strategically important to the Federation. Previous attempts have failed because they are so easily irritated. A slip in the pronunciation of the greeting caused a twenty year rift.
TROI: The Captain has to recite the entire greeting without making any mistakes.
LAFORGE: Simple as that, huh?
DATA: Yes. If, on the other hand, the Captain makes even the slightest error
TROI: The Captain is well aware of the gravity of the situation, Commander.
DATA: We are all aware of the tape of the last Federation starship to come in contact with the Jaradan. It graphically demonstrates what happened when that Captain offended them.
TROI: Captain Picard is familiar with that, Data.
DATA: Should we not rerun it?
PICARD: It's not necessary, Mister Data. Meeting adjourned.

[Corridor]
DATA: Why would the Captain not want to review all available information on the subject?
LAFORGE: Data, when you've seen the Jaradan react once, you don't ever have to see it again.
DATA: This Dixon Hill is a most puzzling character.
LAFORGE: Not really. He was just a twentieth-century Sherlock Holmes.
DATA: Ah, but was his modus operandi not dissimilar? Worth investigating.
LAFORGE: Indubitably, my dear Data. Indubitably.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer: request all biographical information on fictional character Dixon Hill.
COMPUTER: Working. Character first appeared in pulp magazine, Amazing Detective Stories, copyright 1934, AD. Second appearance in novel The Long Dark Tunnel, copyright 1936.
DATA: Request complete text of all stories involving said character. Increase speed.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Jaradan rendezvous still is eleven hours away. I am about to reenter the world of Dixon Hill, this time properly dressed. An experience like this is more enjoyable when shared, so I've invited our fiction expert, Whalen, to accompany me. Doctor Crusher will join us shortly.

[Outside Holodeck]
PICARD: Ready for San Francisco, Mister Whalen?
WHALEN: More than ready, sir.
PICARD: Well, if it's anything like the last time, I'm sure you won't be disappointed
DATA: Request permission to accompany you, sir. I am totally versed in the genre of the period.
PICARD: Well, shall we?

[Street]
VENDOR: Extra! Extra! Read all about it.
VENDOR: Hey Dix. How's tricks?
PICARD: Oh, she's fine, fine.
WHALEN: He actually thinks you're Dixon Hill.
PICARD: Say Mac, I would like to buy a newspaper too, but I don't have any money.
VENDOR: You catch me next time, Dix.
PICARD: Thank you. Hitler on the move. Roosevelt presses Congress for British aid. DiMaggio streak reaches thirty seven?
DATA: DiMaggio, sir. Jolting Joe, the Yankee clipper.
WHALEN: Baseball, sir. It was a national obsession at the time.
DATA: The streak they refer to will eventually reach fifty six games. And be snapped by a pair of journeyman hurlers for the Cleveland Indians.
VENDOR: Cleveland? Ha! They got no pitchers! They ain't never got no pitchers. What are you, nuts or something?
DATA: The record will stand until the year 2026, when a shortstop for the London Kings
VENDOR: Hey Dix, what gives with this guy? He's not from around here, is he.
PICARD: No he's not. He's er, he's from South America.
VENDOR: Yeah. He's got a nice tan.
PICARD: I should have listened to her. She told me someone was trying to kill her.
WHALEN: Captain, she's a page from a book. That's all she ever was.
BELL: Well, well, look what the cat dragged in.
DATA: Cat?
BELL: Where the hell did he come from?
VENDOR: South America. Can't you tell?
BELL: Wherever you're from, while you're in my town, keep your nose clean. Well, tough guy, this time you've really done it. Your goose is cooked but good.
MCNARY: I'm sorry about this, Dix.
BELL: Don't apologize to him. Where were you last night between ten and midnight?
PICARD: That would be a bit hard to explain.
BELL: Yeah? Well you'll have plenty of time to come up with something. You're going downtown.
PICARD: What for?
BELL: For the murder of Jessica Bradley. We found this in her purse.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Status report.
TASHA: We're being probed, sir.
TROI: The Jarada.
TASHA: Most likely, but it's long range. Can't be certain where it's originating.
RIKER: One could get the feeling they don't exactly trust us.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm receiving a subspace message from the Jarada.
RIKER: That's not part of the plan. Pipe it through.
JARADAN (voiceover): En-ter-prise. We speak to you in your language. The time has come to honor us in ours.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker, First Officer of the Enterprise.
JARADAN (voiceover): You are not captain?
RIKER: No sir, I'm not. I suggest we commence with screen to screen communication so we can see each other
JARADAN (voiceover): You offend us! We will not show ourselves to a mere subordinate. We await your Captain's greeting with growing unrest. End of communication.
RIKER: Terrific. Find the Captain. He's in the Holodeck.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Outside Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Enter when ready. When ready. When ready.

[Police Station]
DATA: Hiya Doc. What's cooking?
CRUSHER: You know I had some trouble getting through. Where's Captain Picard?
DATA: He's on ice.
CRUSHER: Pardon?
DATA: He's being grilled.
CRUSHER: What is he, a fish?
WHALEN: H's being interrogated. They think he's committed a murder.
CRUSHER: Why aren't we all being interrogated? Maybe I should go and help him.
WHALEN: No, relax. He's having the time of his life in there.
CRUSHER: Well, why should he have all the fun?
POLICEMAN: Come on, Toots, let's go.

[Interrogation room]
BELL: Spill it!
PICARD: I've told you everything I know.
BELL: Well, you'll just have to tell us again. From the top. From the top!
PICARD: Oh, very good. I've read all this before, you know. It's absolutely as it should be.
BELL: Spill it!

[Outside Holodeck]
LAFORGE: LaForge to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
LAFORGE: I can't find the Captain, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): I told you, he's in the holodeck.
LAFORGE: I'm at the holodeck. Something's gone wrong.
RIKER (voiceover): What are you saying?
LAFORGE: I can't communicate with him, I can't access the program, and I can't open the doors. Enterprise log, supplemental. First Officer reporting. Due to an unknown breakdown in the holodeck, we are unable to contact the Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Tasha, take over. I'm going to holodeck three.
WESLEY: Commander? I've studied all the technical manuals on the holodecks, sir. I think I can be of some help down there.
RIKER: Geordi's well equipped to deal with the situation, Wes. Right now, your duty's here on the Bridge.
TROI: Will. His mother's missing too.
RIKER: Come on, Wesley.

[Interrogation room]
BELL: And you say you never met her before she came to hire you.
PICARD: I've already told you that twice.
BELL: Yeah? Well you're going to have to tell me again.
PICARD: Look fellas, this is no longer amusing.
MCNARY: Easy, Dan!
BELL: You think you're tough, Hill, but you're nothing!
MCNARY: Don't take him too seriously, Dix. His old lady's been giving him a hard time. You know how it is.
PICARD: Actually, I do need to get out of here.
MCNARY: I'll see what I can do.

[Police station]
CRUSHER: Something on your mind?
SERGEANT: Yeah, nut I'm not sure it can be repeated in mixed company. You're a pretty hep lookin' broad.
CRUSHER: Is that good?
SERGEANT: It ain't bad. You like Tommy Dorsey? I got two tickets for the dance tomorrow night.

[Outside Holodeck]
RIKER: Have you tried the intercom?
LAFORGE: Yes.
RIKER: Riker to holodeck. Riker to holodeck!
RIKER: Are you seeing anything?
WESLEY: No, sir.
RIKER: What can I do?
LAFORGE: Not a thing. We have to go through this millimeter by millimeter.
RIKER: All right. Get it fixed.
LAFORGE: Easy, Wes. Slow it down. If there's an anomaly, you could go right past it, okay?

[Interrogation room]
MCNARY: Okay, Dix, we're cutting you loose.
PICARD: That's welcome news.
BELL: You better not try to leave town.
PICARD: If I leave town, the town leaves with me. I get the feeling your friend doesn't like me.
MCNARY: We know you're dealing with Redblock, Dixon. Take it from a friend, it doesn't help your case.
PICARD: Redblock? I'll keep it in mind. Thank you for helping me.
MCNARY: Forget it. Hey, Dix, when are you coming over for supper? The kids'd love to see you, and you know how much you love Sharon's cooking.
PICARD: Soon, my friend. For the moment, I have other duties.
MCNARY: Blonde or brunette?
PICARD: She's a lady, all right, and her name is Enterprise.
MCNARY: Sounds like a working girl to me. I'll stop by the office with a bottle of scotch. You can tell me all about her.

[Police station]
CRUSHER: Have a good time?
PICARD: I don't know. Sometimes it almost seemed too real. I must say, you wear it well. I'm glad you could make it.
CRUSHER: Why, thank you, Mister Hill.
PICARD: Maybe we should be getting back to the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: We are on the Enterprise.
PICARD: Oh, yes, of course, so we are.
CRUSHER: Do we have time to see your office?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Why not.
WHALEN: Captain, mind if I join you?
DATA: Yeah, me too, boss. I'd love to take a gander.

[Hill's Waiting room]
PICARD (voiceover): The holodeck makes excellent use of finite space.
LEECH: Ah, Mister Hill. You've been avoiding me.
WHALEN: It's Felix Leech! It has to be.
LEECH: You know me, sir?
WHALEN: Well, I've read about you many times.
PICARD: I'm very sorry, Mister Leech, but we have to be going. Call again tomorrow.
LEECH: You're being quite rude, Mister Hill. You haven't even introduced me to your charming companions.
PICARD: That'll have to wait.
LEECH: But we have business! Urgent business.

[Hill's office]
LEECH: You're not going anywhere. Not until we have a little chat.

[Outside holodeck]
TASHA (voiceover): Bridge to holodeck. We're approaching the Jaradan sector.
RIKER: Any word from the Jaradans?
TASHA (voiceover): Not a thing, sir.
RIKER: They may be testing us. Seeing if we'll stick to the arrangements.
TASHA (voiceover): What do we do now, sir?
RIKER: We wait.
LAFORGE: Well, everything checks out so far. Ensign Crusher believes the trouble may have been caused by the Jaradan probe. If so, it could be very difficult to locate.

[Hill's office]
LEECH: I am not a man to be toyed with, Mister Hill. You were hired to locate a certain object. I demand to know what you have done with it.
PICARD: Well, I suppose a few moments longer. I'm afraid I can't help you, Mister Leech. The game is over.
LEECH: I assure you, this is not a game.
WHALEN: Take it from me, Leech, you'll never find it. Now, give me the gun.
WHALEN: But, they're not real.
CRUSHER: There's massive internal bleeding. We have to get him to Sickbay.
PICARD: How could this happen?
LEECH: It will happen again if you don't cooperate.
LEECH: You struck me! How dare you! You're going to be sorry! I promise you, Redblock isn't going to like this!
CRUSHER: If we don't get him to sickbay, he will die!
PICARD: Exit! Computer, exit! Data, try the other exit in the hall.

[Hall]
DATA: Computer, identify exit.

[Hill's office]
DATA: There is a programming malfunction. The computer refuses to identify the exits.
CRUSHER: I'm losing his pulse!
PICARD: Computer, this is the Captain! Computer, identify exit!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir. Standard orbit.
RIKER: Riker to Holodeck.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Nothing yet, Commander.
RIKER: We're running out of time.

[Outside holodeck]
RIKER (voiceover): The Jarada will expect the Captain's greeting.
LAFORGE: Well you may have to stall them.

[Hill's Office]
CRUSHER: It's no use. It's just not there.
PICARD: Suggestions, Mister Data?
DATA: I am at a loss, sir. We are in a holodeck-created building of 1941. The computer refuses to accept voice commands. The controls for the environment are, therefore, not accessible.
CRUSHER: I could use some light.
REDBLOCK: Good day, Mister Hill. My name is Cyrus Redblock. I hope you don't mind us dropping in.
PICARD: I see I have no choice.
REDBLOCK: Life is an endless stream of choices. Unfortunately, you have chosen to make my life more difficult. I don't suppose you'd be foolish enough to hide it here.
PICARD: I don't suppose so.
REDBLOCK: Still, I'm sure you won't mind if we take a look around.
CRUSHER: I wish you'd quit asking, since it's obvious you're going to do it anyway. It's just a waste of time.
REDBLOCK: Good manners, Madam, are never a waste of time. Civility, gentlemen, always civility. Get that stiff out of here.
CRUSHER: He's not dead.
REDBLOCK: From his pallor, he soon will be.
THUG: You want I should throw him in the garbage, boss?
REDBLOCK: The room next door will be good enough for now.
PICARD: Don't touch him.
REDBLOCK: Which one struck you?
LEECH: It was Hill.
REDBLOCK: For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. A Newtonian truism which you have obviously neglected.
MCNARY (voiceover): Dix, you in there?
MCNARY: I saw your light, figured you were working late. Guess I was right. Nice company you're keeping, Dix. You forget to take the trash out this morning?
REDBLOCK: I'm a tolerant man, but I do not tolerate disrespect.
DATA: Your devotion to etiquette is highly admirable, sir. However, your methods leave much to be desired.
REDBLOCK: What have we here?
LEECH: Looks like a ghost.
REDBLOCK: Yeah. Where do you suppose he's from?
LEECH: Where were you hatched, anyway?
DATA: I was created on a planet
PICARD: Data.
DATA: South America.
REDBLOCK: I've been all over this world and I've never seen anything like you.
PICARD: He's not from this world. None of us are. We are from a world, we're from a world of fabulous riches. A world where there are objects far greater than the one you seek.
LEECH: That's ridiculous! You're a private dick. We've met before and you never even mentioned any of this.
MCNARY: He's right, Dix. That's pretty weak stuff. I wouldn't even buy that line of guff.
PICARD: I am not Dixon Hill. I just look like Dixon Hill.
DATA: He speaks the truth, sir. From your point of view, he is only a facsimile, a knock-off, a cheap imitation.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: Sorry sir, that did not come out quite the way I intended.
REDBLOCK: Very, very, good. What wonderful fiction. Quite entertaining. I admire your skill at trying to obfuscate our sense of reality.
DATA: It is you who are not real, sir.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: It is you who are imaginary characters derived from a work of fiction.
MCNARY: Give it up, fellas. These guys are too smart to fall for that story.
DATA: I am afraid you are not real either, Lieutenant.
LEECH: I don't want to hear any more of this. You're making me crazy. Let me shoot them, Mister Redblock. Let me kill them, one by one.
REDBLOCK: What an interesting situation. Perhaps we should test this theory by killing one of them.
CRUSHER: You've already done that. This man is dying. This whole thing is senseless.
REDBLOCK: Hardly. Senseless killing is immoral. But killing for a purpose can be quite often ingenious.
LEECH: Well said, Mister Redblock. What is our purpose?
REDBLOCK: We are on a quest for knowledge, Mister Leech. We want the item.
PICARD: We don't have it.
LEECH: Shall I kill him?
REDBLOCK: No, kill the woman.
PICARD: Redblock. I have the item.
REDBLOCK: At last. I knew it. God, man, you are a character you are. Waiting until the last moment, testing my resolve. All right, where is it?
PICARD: I'll explain. But first, tell Leech to back off.
REDBLOCK: Put the gun down, Mister Leech.
LEECH: But I so much want to kill her.
REDBLOCK: Maybe later. It won't harm us to listen to Mister Hill.
MCNARY: Don't make any deals with that slime, Dix!
REDBLOCK: All right, let's begin. Make your thoughts fruitful and your words eloquent. Because I don't have to tell you your lovely lady friend's life depends upon it.
PICARD: There is a price.
REDBLOCK: By God, I knew you were a man of stripe. All right, what is it?
PICARD: Mister Whalen's life. You must help us to save him.

[Bridge]
TROI: We can't delay much longer.
RIKER: We're going to have to tell them something. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Frequencies open, sir.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker, aboard the Enterprise. We demand that you Cut that off! They're not going to be satisfied with anyone less than the Captain.

[Outside Holodeck]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
LAFORGE: We think we have something, sir. I'll let Ensign Crusher explain.
WESLEY: The bi-converter interface has been affected

[Bridge]
RIKER: Forget the explanation! Can you do it?

[Outside Holodeck]
WESLEY: I don't know if I should. If this isn't done correctly, the program could abort and everyone inside could vanish.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Do you need more time to study it?
WESLEY (voiceover): Whether we do it now or later, the risk is the same.
RIKER: Do it.

[Hill's Office]
PICARD: If we can find away of getting him to our Sickbay by fixing our computer
REDBLOCK: Computer? I don't know that word.
DATA: An electronic or mechanical apparatus capable of carrying out repetitious or complex mathematical operations at high speed. Computers are used to control, process, perform, or store
LEECH: Enough! Let me kill him. He's really beginning to irritate me.
CRUSHER: Captain, the exit.
PICARD: That's it. The way into our world.
REDBLOCK: Remarkable. Is this a two-way passage? Can one enter your world and return to this one simply by stepping through?
PICARD: Oh, yes. Allow us to help Mister Whalen, and we will return with the item.
REDBLOCK: You really are a scamp, aren't you. Do you actually think I'd stay here
DATA: If you were going to go through yourself, sir, that is not possible.
REDBLOCK: One look at you, sir, is proof that anything is possible. Step back, Mister Hill. I'd shoot you myself, but I don't want to deprive my assistant of his greatest pleasure. After we've gone, kill them all. Make sure the bodies are never found.
MCNARY: You're insane. You think you can kill a cop and get away with it?
REDBLOCK: Why not? I've done it before. Come on, Mister Leech. Au revoir et bonne chance, mon ami. Our destiny awaits.

[Corridor]
REDBLOCK: Another world. A whole new world to plunder!
REDBLOCK: What is this? What are they doing? They can't do this to me! Don't they know who I am? I'm Cyrus Redblock! Cyrus Redblock!

[Hill's office]
DATA: With your permission, sir?
PICARD: Permission granted.
PICARD: Data, pick up Whalen. Take him to Sickbay.
DATA: And you, sir?
PICARD: I'll follow. You go now.
PICARD: I wish I could take you with me.
MCNARY: Someone has to book this creep. Once a cop always a cop, I guess.
PICARD: I have to go.
MCNARY: So this is the big goodbye. Tell me something, Dixon. When you've gone. will this world still exist? Will my wife and kids still be waiting for me at home?
PICARD: I honestly don't know. Good-bye my friend.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Captain!
RIKER: Are you ready, sir?
PICARD: As ready as I'll ever be, Number One. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Frequencies open.
PICARD: This is Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the USS Enterprise. Aaaaard klaxon leeeeesss blag blan ar'nik ka'nik. Aaaaard krasulaaa. Rassss trassss trasulaaaah.
JARADAN (voiceover): You have honored us with your words of greeting. A new day dawns between us.
RIKER: So, did you have a nice vacation?
PICARD: It was a nice place to visit, Number One, but I wouldn't want to die there.
LAFORGE: So, Data, how was it?
DATA: It was raining in the city by the bay. A hard rain. Hard enough to wash the slime
PICARD: Data!
DATA: Sorry, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant, take us out of orbit.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And, Mister La Forge
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: Step on it.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41242.4. Our last assignment has taken us into the remote Omicron Theta star system, home of our android crewmember Lieutenant Commander Data. Although we are due at our next assignment, I have decided to visit Data's home planet for a few hours in the hopes of unraveling some of the mystery of his beginnings.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Sir, we are now twenty minutes from Omicron Theta, mark!
RIKER: Stand by for subwarp. Head for standard orbit of Data's planet. I wonder why Data hasn't come up here.
PICARD: He said he wanted to be alone. Perhaps it's a bigger moment for him than we thought.

[Data's Quarters]
DATA: Aah, ahh, ahh
WESLEY: Data!
DATA: Choo!
WESLEY: What are you doing?
DATA: Sneezing.
WESLEY: Have you got a cold?
DATA: A cold what?
WESLEY: It's a disease my mom says people used to get.
DATA: Ah. But humans still sneeze for other reasons and I cannot seem to do it right.
WESLEY: How can you be practicing something like sneezing when we're arriving at your home planet for the first time? Aren't you interested in that?
DATA: More than interested. Fascinated. One might say agog. But I also find sneezing interesting.
WESLEY: Captain Picard wishes to see you on the Bridge.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Captain, confirming class M reading there. But the sensors aren't showing any life readings. Not even vegetation.
PICARD: Strange. The cruiser that found Data reported farmlands here.
RIKER: Do you want to take her into orbit, Data?
DATA: No, thank you, sir.
PICARD: Continue on into close parking orbit.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: I could say home sweet home, sir, if I understood how the word sweet applies.
PICARD: It usually refers to the memories.
RIKER: It usually refers to one's own memories, Captain. Do the memories you were given include farms, Data?
DATA: Affirmative, sir. But the colony's principal interest was science.
TASHA: Data, I can't understand how you can hold the memories of four hundred and eleven people. If that means every experience, every day of their life?
DATA: It does not, unfortunately. It means only the knowledge they had accumulated. Actually, I am quite deficient in some basic human information. Sneezing, for example.
PICARD: Sneezing?
LAFORGE: Approaching close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Assemble your away party, Commander. This must be an exciting moment for you, Mister Data. I'm tempted to lead the away team myself, except that my First Officer would object.
RIKER: How would Starfleet judge me if I didn't? An entire Earth colony did disappear down there.
PICARD: You see?
LAFORGE: Now in close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, welcome home. First Officer's log, stardate 4124.5. We have found Data's home to be a completely dead world made out of lifeless vegetation. No insects, not even soil bacteria. What is it that could kill everything on an entire planet?

[Planet surface]
TASHA: Recording signal locked onto the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: This looks like anything but farmland.
LAFORGE: Agreed, sir. The soil appears almost completely lifeless.
RIKER: This is the exact position listed in the Tripoli log. Do you recognize anything, Data?
DATA: The land contours are familiar, sir. Topographically, this is the correct area.
LAFORGE: This once was rich farmland. I'd say something like twenty to thirty years ago.
DATA: I was discovered twenty six years ago.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'd say that everything on this planet was either dead or dying at the time Data was found.
DATA: I was found twenty meters in that direction, sir.
TASHA: Data, any idea at all why you were given the colonists' memories?
DATA: I have always felt that it was done hurriedly, but I know little more. Here, sir. This is where the cruiser's landing party found the signal device that had led them here. And they found me lying there, sir.
TASHA: You were just lying out there in the open? No identity record, no instructions?
DATA: Only a layer of dust.
RIKER: What's the first thing you remember, Data?
DATA: Opening my eyes. Looking into the eyes of the Tripoli landing party. They believed that the signal device sensed their presence and activated me.
TASHA: Then this very spot was your birthplace.
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got this place figured out here. This was really very cleverly done to make this look like a natural hollow in the terrain here. There are signs of it being constructed in a hurry as if to hide something here.
DATA: Yes, that was it, Geordi. This wakens a memory remnant of how the colonists hoped to remain hidden, but their fear of being discovered led to their storing information in me.
LAFORGE: Yeah, thought so.

[Underground Complex]
TASHA: No life readings in here either, sir.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: The colony laboratory. Extremely well equipped. Does this stir any memories, Data?
DATA: Only a vague impression of some of my functions being tested here.
RIKER: Posted by proud parents?
DATA: It depicts something that feels familiar, sir. And dangerous. But I have no idea what it represents. And that is all. Except for an impression of this being a Doctor Soong's work area.
RIKER: Who? You don't mean Doctor Noonien Soong?
DATA: He was called that here, but his memories indicate he traveled here under a different name.
LAFORGE: Doctor Noonien Soong, my friend, happens to have been Earth's foremost robotics scientist.
TASHA: Until he tried to make Asimov's dream of a positronic brain come true.
RIKER: A positronic brain. He promised so much. And then when he failed completely, Doctor Soong disappeared. Now we know he went somewhere else to try a second time. Data, Geordi, we'll get a close look at this lab. You and Lieutenant Worf reconnoiter where these corridors lead.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Data, it's you.
RIKER: An epidermal mold. Made to give your exterior the desired finish.
TASHA (voiceover): Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Come in, Lieutenant.
TASHA (voiceover): Sir, this installation is big enough to hold hundreds of people. But all that's here now is empty beds.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Complete your record scans and report back here.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, looks like some sort of storage area.
RIKER: How many more Datas are there?
LAFORGE: Looks like just these two. I mean, that and the real Data.
DATA: Commander, can this be another me? Or possibly my brother?
RIKER: I honestly don't know, Data.
DATA: He needs assembling.
RIKER: He? Data, we don't know that this can become alive.
DATA: It is very important for me to know that, sir. I never dreamed it was possible I might find some link with some form like my own.
RIKER: Understood. We'll take it back to the ship with us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 41242.45. Despite having only a few hours in which to explore Data's home planet we've discovered something which may explain Data's beginnings, if we can properly assemble and communicate with what we've found.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Signal from the Captain. They need you at the debriefing.
DATA: I've been most anxious to hear the Chief Engineer's opinion, Mister Argyle. Do you believe he can be made to function?
ARGYLE: It appears to include all the components in your body. Not that we fully understand your construction either.
CRUSHER: We have our top specialists working on its construction, Mister Data.
ARGYLE: Just one thing. Without disassembling you, of course, if we should need more
CRUSHER: If we should need to compare this with the way you're put together?

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Bringing it up here was the right thing to do, Number One. We were just saying, Data, that if your duplicate functions, it might answer a lot of questions.
RIKER: Does it appear to have all your parts?
DATA: Completely, sir.
LAFORGE: Will we know how to turn it on?
PICARD: All right, all right. Legitimate questions about any of this need not be asked apologetically. You feel uncomfortable about aspects of your duplicate, Data. We feel uncomfortable too, and for no logical reason. If it feels awkward to be reminded that Data is a machine, just remember that we are merely a different variety of machine. In our case, electrochemical in nature. Let's begin to handle this as we would do anything else.
LAFORGE: Agreed, Captain.
PICARD: Let's begin with you, Data.
DATA: Well, sir, a good starting point may be, why was I given human form?
LAFORGE: Well, to make it easier for humans to relate to you. Had to be. But your designer may have had something else to prove as well.
PICARD: That human-shaped robots need not be clumsy or limited. You certainly operate as well as we do, Data
DATA: Better in some ways, sir.
RIKER: You might want to have a look at this, Captain. Could be a link to the disappearance of the colonists. It was displayed in the lab, no doubt by proud parents. It could be just a child's imagination, but several children did similar drawings.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher to Captain. At this point, sir, we very much need Mister Data's help.
PICARD: He's on his way, Doctor.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Press your fingers there, Doctor. There. It operates almost as a switch.
CRUSHER: And these small projections?
DATA: An android alarm clock. Is that amusing? They time how long I remain unconscious.
ARGYLE: Are you certain about us using these heating devices, Data?
DATA: I will feel nothing at all.
ARGYLE: Marvelous. It should all be a lot simpler once we can see how your circuitry's connected.
CRUSHER: I won't mention it to anyone. You have my word.
DATA: If you had an off switch Doctor, would you not keep it secret?
CRUSHER: I guess I would.

[Sickbay]
ARGYLE: Notice the micro-circuitry here and here. And another fibroid-like connection here.
CRUSHER: Let's close up.
ARGYLE: It seemed to go well, thanks to a look inside Mister Data. But there have been no signs of consciousness, yet
RIKER: It certainly is a good match for Data, sir.
PICARD: Do you think so, really? I wonder which of them was made first?
LORE: He was. But they found him imperfect and I was made to replace him. You may call me Lore.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: I'm also a bit troubled by it describing you as imperfect.
DATA: Human language gives me difficulty too, sir. Imperfect could mean I lack certain abilities he possesses.
PICARD: I wonder. But the point of this is, whether you and it have approximately the same capabilities.
DATA: We do, sir, and your referring to him as an it suggests that I, too, fit into the category of a thing.
PICARD: I see your point. My apologies.
DATA: Gladly accepted, sir. As for Lore's abilities, his use of syntax and grammar suggests he was given human memories similar to my own.
PICARD: And you have about equal physical strength and mental abilities?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Which requires I now ask you a very serious question. Since the two of you are closely related to each other.
DATA: The answer, sir, is that my loyalty is to you and Starfleet. Completely.
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I was certain of that.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: And helm control is here, with the ship's heading given in measurements we call degrees. Three hundred and sixty of them in a full circle this way.
LORE: Then you say mark.
LAFORGE: On the nose.
WESLEY: Which separates it from another full three hundred and sixty degree circle this way on a right angle to this one.
LORE: So by ordering a heading so many degrees this way and so many this way, the ship can travel in any direction. All three dimensions.
RIKER: And the square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle
LORE: Is equal to the sum of the square of the other two. Two something. Which I once heard, but never understood.
DATA: All of which you will learn more about when the Captain has approved your being on the Bridge.
LORE: Have I committed an offense?
WESLEY: You will find that there are many rules on starships that must be learnt.
LORE: You're very clever, Wesley. I now have duties to perform. Correct?
WORF: Were you ever this anxious to please, Data?
DATA: Never. I judge Lore to be superior in that desire.
LORE: Because I was designed to be so human, my brother, I enjoy pleasing humans.
LAFORGE: My brother. That has a nice sound to it, Data.
DATA: You consider it important to please humans?
LORE: It's not important?
DATA: There are many things of importance. Some more than others.

[Corridor]
DATA: Do you realize that Commander Riker's hypotenuse question tricked you into showing your knowledge was greater than you were indicating?
LORE: He didn't seem that clever. I'll be more careful.
DATA: You tend to underestimate humans, my brother. Praising young Wesley on the helm, for example
LORE: A child!
DATA: He has a child's body, but we have found him to be much more.
LORE: Thank you for that information, too. You do care about how I perform. I pledge to be worthy of your teaching, my brother. Try not to be jealous of my abilities.

[Data's Quarters]
LORE: What information are you requesting?
DATA: Everything available on a Doctor Noonien Soong.
LORE: Good old Often Wrong Soong. A joke, brother. Actually, he was a genius by human standards.
DATA: But he had destroyed his own reputation by making what seemed wild promises about his positronic brain design, almost all of which failed.
LORE: Promises he later proved to be true. Which made you and me possible, brother. Our beloved father. Will I soon have a uniform like that, brother?
DATA: If you get one the way I did, Lore, it will mean four years at the Academy, another three as ensign, ten or twelve on varied space duty in the lieutenant grades.
LORE: A system designed to compensate for limited human ability. And you, brother, are beginning to think as a human. You and I are completely different from them. Are you truly satisfied with the knowledge and memory of a few hundred human colonists? Suppose it could reflect thousands? Or millions? Or the knowledge of hundreds of millions of life forms of every kind?
DATA: How?
LORE: We will discuss that in time.
DATA: And will we also discuss, Lore, which of us was constructed first?
LORE: It would be foolish to underestimate you, brother. Yes, I lied when I said you were made first, but with good reason. Doctor Soong made me perfect in his first attempt. But he made me so completely human the colonists became envious of me.
DATA: You lived with the colonists?
LORE: Until they petitioned Soong to make a more comfortable, less perfect android. In other words, you, brother. Haven't you noticed how easily I handle human speech? I use their contractions. For example, I say can't or isn't, and you say cannot or is not. I say tomato, you say tomahto. I say potato, you say potahto. A very old joke. But then you also have trouble with their humor. Am I right?
DATA: Quite true. I keep trying to be more human, and keep failing.
LORE: Do you realize, brother, I can help you become more human?
DATA: And do you realize, Lore, that I am obligated to report all of this to our ship's Captain?
LORE: I assumed as much when I began studying you. May I use this to learn more of this vessel and its customs?
DATA: Use it also to describe for the Captain the time you spent among the colonists. Including everything you know about what happened to them.
LORE: I promise a report of great detail and accuracy.
DATA: Thank you, Lore. I now have duties to perform. Unless of course, you need something more.
LORE: I have more than I dreamed possible, brother.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41242.5. Thanks to Lore's report, we now know what happened to the colonists. Beginning with a child's drawing, enhanced by Lore's description, our computer has constructed the image of a great crystalline entity which feeds on life, insatiably ravenous for the life force found in living forms, capable of stripping all life from an entire world.

[Bridge]
TASHA: But how did Data escape that thing? Or Lore?
RIKER: Lore had been disassembled. He explained it as jealousy from the colonists. And Data wasn't yet alive at that time.
PICARD: Which explains why Data could be left outside in no danger from that creature. Whatever happened to the colonists, he would be found by the first Starfleet crew that responded to the signal he transmitted.
TASHA: By which Doctor Soong left proof behind that his experiment did work.
RIKER: Captain, how believable do you find that crystal thing?
PICARD: With so little of even our galaxy explored, I find it at least possible.
TASHA: Data, are you expecting Lore to come up here? He left your quarters some time ago.
DATA: To go?
TASHA: My turbo-sensors say he went to deck four. Worf?
WORF: Where he examined some micro-miniature work tools, and some fine grind quadratanium ?
DATA: Which is used in our construction. That particular compound is no more suspicious, sir, than a human looking for an antiseptic or an ointment. Nevertheless, I should check it out.
CRUSHER: You're watching everything he does, Data? Is that the act of a brother?
PICARD: It's the act of a Starfleet officer obeying his Captain, Doctor.
TASHA: Captain? Speaking strictly as Security Chief, how much can you trust Data now?
PICARD: I trust him completely. But everyone should also realize that that was a necessary and legitimate security question.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[Data's Quarters]
LORE: Lesson number one in becoming more human. You must observe all human customs.
DATA: Champagne?
LORE: An ancient ritual still practiced when they celebrate events of importance. My brother, I toast our discovery of each other. May it fill our lives with new meaning.
DATA: I have some doubts about the value of human customs in this. My brother!
LORE: And let us toast also Doctor Soong, who gave me the full richness of human needs and ambitions. A perfect match for my mind, my body.
LORE: And let us toast also the great Crystal Entity with whom I learned to communicate. Before Doctor Soong disassembled me, I earned its gratitude by revealing the way to the colonists. Can you image its gratitude when I give it the life on this vessel?

[Bridge]
WORF: This is strange, sir. I show Commander Data transmitting on a subspace channel.
RIKER: I know Data's been doing considerable research on Doctor Soong's background. Let's be sure. Wesley, would you look in on Commander Data? Discreetly?
WESLEY: Yes sir!

[Data's Quarters]
LORE: Crystal Entity. Upon arriving here you can identify me as the machine named Data. End of message. Come in, please.
LORE: Glad you are here, Wesley. Lore suddenly attacked me and I had to turn him off.
WESLEY: Why did he do that, Data?
LORE: He discovered we have been using sensors to follow what he does. I practiced his facial tic. Do I have it right?
WESLEY: I'd suggest you forget imitating him. If you'd said we've been using the sensors, instead of we have, I might have suspected you were Lore.
LORE: Yes. I do use language more formally than Lore. Please inform the Captain I will come up to the Bridge and report on this.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Wes, tell me again how Data said he immobilized Lore.
WESLEY: He told me he just turned him off, Mom, er, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Question, Mister Data. Did you or did you not swear me to secrecy about your off switch?
LORE: A change of mind, Doctor. If I cannot trust the bridge crew, whom can I?
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a bogey coming in on a five o'clock tangent.
TASHA: It's transmitting no ID signal, Captain.
RIKER: Set main viewer on that tangent.
PICARD: Shields up. Go to Yellow Alert. Transmit friendly greetings, all languages, all frequencies.
RIKER: I can't believe anything's overtaking us this fast.
LORE: Beautiful, isn't it?
RIKER: I recognize it, sir. It's the crystal image Lore described.
CRUSHER: My God.
TASHA: Still no ID being transmitted, sir. Also no answer to our inquiries.
PICARD: Did you get a direct look at it?
LAFORGE: It's like a giant snow flake crystal, but much more complex. The entire electromagnetic spectrum seems to play about inside it, but I haven't the slightest idea what it is, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data, is there anything else that Lore can tell us about it, it may be important. Can you control him enough to question him?
LORE: I will have to examine him to know, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, recommend that you do not let him roam the ship freely.
PICARD: Ensign.
LORE: Wesley is only showing himself to be alert and responsible. Something to encourage. Come, you can watch everything I do.
WESLEY: Not if I have a choice.
PICARD: That is enough, Ensign. When addressing a senior officer.
RIKER: I've guided his training, sir, I'm the one at fault. You will show the proper respect. I will accompany you down there to make certain of it. With your approval, of course, sir.

[Data's Quarters]
LORE: Be careful of Lore. Good. He is still unconscious. Notice the same twitch, even though he is unconscious? Stay back. We may have problems if he senses someone else is near. Lore, I have a few questions to ask you.
LORE: Lore, it is Data. He senses you. I cannot control him if you stay. Please! I will record everything he says.
RIKER: You will bring it to the Bridge, immediately.
LORE: And you want to be as stupid as them, dear brother?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well, Number One?
RIKER: It was Lore, sir. Same facial twitches that we've seen all along. Lying unconscious on the floor exactly as Data had described. But then it suddenly became violent, apparently sensing that Wesley and I were present.
WESLEY: Or is it Lore pretending to be Data and faking it all?
PICARD: I asked for Commander Riker's report, Acting Ensign Crusher. And since it now seems clear that you are unable to function within the limits of that appointment
LAFORGE: Captain!
TASHA: Deflector shields holding, sir.
PICARD: Bring photon torpedoes to ready. Main phasers to ready. Go to Red Alert, please.
WORF: Weapons now ready, sir.
LORE: No, Captain, let me talk to it.
PICARD: You didn't say you could do that. Affirmative. Talk to it.
LORE: Open hailing frequencies. Crystal form, I identify myself as Data, advising you to stop your attack. The humans here are powerful, capable of injuring or even destroying you.
LAFORGE: Now I call that communicating.
LORE: Suggest moving fast to confirm what I told it, sir. Permission to use the large transporter in cargo room three. There I can beam up some living pattern, perhaps a large tree.
RIKER: Which you'll beam over next to the entity
LORE: That is correct, Riker. Our ship's phasers will then blast and disintegrate it, proving we are dangerous.
PICARD: Make it so.
LORE: Sir?
PICARD: Do it.
WESLEY: Sir, I know this may finish me as an Acting Ensign, but
PICARD: Shut up, Wesley! Lieutenant, pick a good security team, let me know what he does.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Shut up, Wesley?
PICARD: Doctor.
WESLEY: And since I am finished here, sir, may I point out that
CRUSHER: Shut up, Wesley!
WESLEY: That everything that I have said would have been listened to if it came from an adult officer. Request permission to return to my quarters, sir.
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, go with him.
CRUSHER: You're putting me off the Bridge?
PICARD: I'm asking that you keep an eye on your son during all of this, Doctor.

[Turbolift]
LORE: Emergency close!
LORE: Now, show me your warrior fierceness.

[Data's Quarters]
CRUSHER: I'll look. But I shouldn't have let you talk me into this.
WESLEY: Mom, it's Data. He's been hurt. It's Data, Mom. I heard you know how to turn them on.
CRUSHER: This is very serious.
WESLEY: So just tell me to shut up, Wesley, and I will.
CRUSHER: You're being very unfair, Wes.
WESLEY: Data, the Crystal Thing is outside somewhere close to the ship, and Lore is loose on the inside.
CRUSHER: How badly are you hurt, Data?
DATA: I will function sufficiently to stop Lore, Doctor

[Cargo bay]
LORE: Crystal entity form, it's your old friend.
LORE: Very good. You've understand perfectly so far. Next, I'll signal that I'm about to transport something out, at which time the deflector shields will turn off for a moment, and if you move in at that time
DATA: How sad, dear brother. You make me wish I were an only child.
LORE: Then why this marvelous gift? The troublesome little man-child. Are you prepared for the kind of death you've earned, little man?
CRUSHER: If you take one step toward my son
LORE: Ah, motherhood.
LORE: Back off, or I'll turn your little man into a torch. I promise him exquisite pain unless you obey me too, brother.
CRUSHER: Move away, Data. Please.
LORE: Do you see now the advantages of being completely human? It includes kindness. I give you your life, Doctor. Go home. Quickly. And I may not injure your son at all.
DATA: I will stay with Wesley, Doctor.
LORE: Go! Or he'll be shrieking by the count of five. One, two, three, four
LORE: Thank you for my human quality, Doctor Soong. Wait! A small payment for your son's misdeeds.
DATA: Wes! The transporter.
DATA: Wesley, now!
WESLEY: Lore's gone, sir. Permanently.
PICARD: Doctor, now that Wesley's safe, go to Sickbay at once.
RIKER: Captain, the crystal thing has begun to move away.
PICARD: Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir. I'm fine.
PICARD: Get rid of that damned twitch and put on the correct uniform.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher, are you able to return to duty?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then do so, and let the Bridge know that all is well down here.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's gone, sir. Without Lore, it had no way to reach us.
PICARD: And we're overdue for our computer refit. Number One, have you ever considered whether Data is more human, or less human than we want?
RIKER: I only wish we were all as well balanced, sir.
PICARD: Agreed!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41636.9. As feared, our examination of the seven year overdue Federation freighter, Odin, disabled by an asteroid collision, revealed no survivors. However, three escape pods were missing, suggesting the possibility of survivors.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Ready to begin orbit of Angel One, Captain.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister La Forge. What kind of place is this, Data?
DATA: Angel One is a class M planet, sir, supporting carbon based flora and fauna, sparsely populated with intelligent life forms. It is similar in technological development to mid-twentieth century Earth.
LAFORGE: Kind of like being marooned at home.
RIKER: Assuming any of the survivors made it this far. Admittedly, it 'is the closest planet to the Odin, but to travel distance we did in two days at warp one would have taken the Odin escape pod five months.
DATA: Five months, fourteen days, eleven hours, two minutes
RIKER: Thank you, Data.
DATA: And fifty seven seconds.
TASHA: Captain, we're receiving an audio signal from Angel One.
PICARD: Starfleet are adamant that we maintain excellent diplomatic relations with this planet. Mister Data, is there any other pertinent information before we reply?
DATA: Angel One has evolved into a constitutional oligarchy. It is governed by a parliamentary body consisting of six elected Mistresses, and headed by a female they refer to as The Elected One.
TROI: It sounds like my own planet.
WORF: Klingons appreciate strong women.
PICARD: How current is this information, Mister Data?
DATA: A Federation vessel last visited this planet sixty two years ago, Captain.
PICARD: Counselor, as this is a female dominated society, you might wish to make the initial contact.
TROI: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
TROI: This is Counselor Deanna Troi from the USS Enterprise.
BEATA (voiceover): I am Beata, The Elected One. How may we assist you, Counselor?
TROI: The Federation has neglected to visit to your planet for far too long. With your permission, we would like to correct that oversight.
BEATA (voiceover): We feel in no way neglected, Counselor. A diplomatic courtesy call is neither expected nor required.
TROI: We also come in search of possible survivors from one of our freighters.
BEATA (voiceover): A brief visit will be tolerated.
TASHA: They've broken off transmission.
LAFORGE: Ever feel like you're not really wanted?

[Corridor]
RIKER: Where're you fellows off to?
WESLEY: Our ski instructor has us scheduled for the Denubian Alps, sir.
RIKER: Save us some deep powder.
WESLEY: No problem, sir. The holodecks have all you'll ever need.

[Transporter Room]
RIKER: The away team's ready, sir.
PICARD: Angel One's strategic importance in this quadrant may become vital. Starfleet's hope is that one day this world may become part of the Federation.
RIKER: We'll do our best to make a good impression, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our away team has beamed down to an unusual matriarchal society where the female is as aggressively dominant as the male gender was on Earth hundreds of years ago. Here, the female is the hunter, the soldier, larger and stronger than the male. An arrangement considered most sensible and natural.

[Great Hall]
BEATA: I am Beata, The Elected One of Angel One. Representatives of the Starfleet Enterprise, do you wish to petition?
TROI: We do. We have reason to hope that survivors from a damaged Federation freighter may be marooned on your planet. We are seeking to learn if this is so.
BEATA: Even a planet as remote as Angel One has heard of Starfleet. Searching the galaxy for survivors seems a petty task for one of their mighty vessels.
RIKER: We don't consider even one survivor petty.
BEATA: Is this man implying that we put a lesser value on life than you do?
TROI: Not at all. Our discovery of the freighter was unexpected. We have a duty to investigate.
BEATA: I see. And if you find any survivors, what then?
TROI: We will take them with us and see that they were reunited with their families.
ARIEL: Are we to take these strangers at their word?
BEATA: Good question.
TASHA: What reason could we possibly have to deceive you?
BEATA: Another good question.
RIKER: Are there survivors from the freighter Odin on your planet?
BEATA: I'm not prepared to answer, yet. See to their comforts.
RIKER: What's going on?

[Guest quarters]
TRENT: You will remain here until summoned.
RIKER: Is thus area secure? Can we talk?
TASHA: Yes. Tricorder doesn't show any listening devices or anything else of a threatening nature.
RIKER: Good. Troi?
TROI: There was much fear in that room.
RIKER: Paranoia, I'd say. But of what?
TROI: I cannot say. But their fear was not focused. I sensed that all were not concerned for the same reason. Undoubtedly there are survivors from the Odin on this planet.
RIKER: I agree. Otherwise, why would they be so circumspect?
TASHA: As Mistress Beata is so fond of saying, good question.
DATA: What do we do if they deny the existence of survivors?
RIKER: Let's not look for problems.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: I want all departments prepared for a warp six trip into the Neutral Zone as soon as the away team completes its mission.
WORF: Trouble, Captain?
PICARD: Insurance. Romulan battle cruisers have been detected near one of our border posts.

[Corridor]
PICARD: They've requested assistance as soon as Argh!
PICARD: Report, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: We finished our ski lesson, sir, and it kind of just happened.
PICARD: On the Enterprise, Mister Crusher, nothing just happens. What is that smell?
WORF: Hmm, yes. Slightly reminiscent of night blooming throgni, Captain. From home. Quite stimulating, wouldn't you say?
PICARD: No.
WESLEY: I don't smell anything. I'm a little congested. The snow.
PICARD: Don't let this just happen again, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Guest quarters]
DATA: Interesting. An alcohol-based synthetic, artificially reproducing a floral scent.
TROI: It's called perfume, Data.
DATA: The purpose of which is?
TASHA: Certain cultures consider perfume an aphrodisiac.
DATA: I am unfamiliar with that term.
RIKER: An aphrodisiac is something used to stimulate or enhance sexual pleasure.
DATA: How does stimulation of the olfactory nerves affect the enjoyment of sex?
TRENT: The Elected One will see you now.

[Great Hall]
BEATA: You claim you intend to remove these survivors from our planet. Are you prepared to give us your solemn word on that?
TROI: We are.
BEATA: You should know that the vote was not unanimous. Some of those among us are suspicious. Yet the majority feel that we have no choice but to trust you.
RIKER: We don't understand the source of your misgivings, Mistress, but we appreciate your faith in us.
BEATA: Make certain that faith is not misplaced. There are four survivors from the ship you call Odin. All male. Their leader is a man who calls himself Ramsey.
TROI: If you'll deliver these men to us, we'll have them off your planet immediately.
BEATA: If they were mine to deliver, I would do it without hesitation. Unfortunately, their hiding place has long eluded us.
TASHA: Hiding place? Why are they in hiding?
BEATA: Because they are fugitives on Angel One, and the quicker we get rid of them, the better. When these men came to us seven years ago, they accepted our hospitality quickly enough. But they gradually became restive, started making unreasonable demands, went against the natural order.
TROI: Using the technology of the Enterprise, we might be able to find these men.
BEATA: I assumed as much. But be warned, Counselor, these men are dangerous.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Sickbay to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here.
CRUSHER: Wesley and one of his friends have contracted some form of respiratory ailment.
PICARD (voiceover): A respiratory aliment? Is it contained?
CRUSHER: I hope so. I've isolated the twelve students who were on the Quazulu Eight field trip.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How contagious is it?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Still running tests. The key is to figure out how the virus is transmitted. So far I've been able to rule out

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Person to person contact.
PICARD: Well, keep with it, Doctor. Starfleet has very important business for us as soon as the away team returns. I don't fancy the idea of my crew being infected.

[Great Hall]
RIKER: Data, what's the best way to go about finding Ramsey and the other survivors?
DATA: If we can isolate something unique to the Odin survivors, perhaps an element not otherwise found on Angel One, we can utilize the Enterprise scanners.
RIKER: Mister Data will need access to your library.
BEATA: Our library is far too sophisticated for a man to comprehend.
DATA: I am an android, Mistress, although anatomically I am a male.
BEATA: An amusing notion. Maybe you could teach our males a thing or two. Trent, see to the android's needs.

[Bridge]
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Lieutenant.
WORF: The away team requests that we scan the planet surface for traces of platinum.
PICARD (voiceover): Have Mister La Forge break fixed orbit and initiate a search pattern.
WORF: Aye, Captain. Geordi.
LAFORGE: Search pattern initiated now.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: This was delivered for you.
RIKER: Good. It's for my meeting with Beata.
TROI: You're not going to wear that.
RIKER: Of course. Part of this mission is diplomatic. I have requested an audience with a head of state, and I will honor her by wearing indigenous apparel.
TASHA: I don't believe this. You're going to put that thing on and parade around like one of them?
RIKER: Why, what is this attitude? On Kabatris I had to wear furs to meet the leadership council. And on Armus Nine I wore feathers. This objection doesn't have anything to do with the fact that Beata is a woman, and an attractive one, does it?

[Ready Room]
PICARD: This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine.
CRUSHER: You're infected with the virus. Captain. In my opinion, you are no longer physically able to effectively command this vessel.
PICARD: That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, in less than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointment with several Romulan battlecruisers.
CRUSHER: You have an appointment in your cabin, Captain. With your bed.
PICARD: Is that an order, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes.

[Bridge]
WORF: I think I may sneeze.
LAFORGE: A Klingon sneeze?
WORF: Only kind I know.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, you have command until further notice. Please, make the proper ship's log entries.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Scanners indicate a platinum trace. Should I notify the away team?
LAFORGE: Make it so.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: Tasha.
RIKER: What do you think?
TASHA: Well, I got to say, it's kind of sexy.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Actually it feels quite comfortable.

[Beata's quarters]
BEATA: How handsome you look.
RIKER: Thank you, The Enterprise reports a possible location for Mister Ramsey and the other survivors.
BEATA: So soon? I'm impressed.
ARIEL: I suspicious.
RIKER: You don't believe me?
ARIEL: Not yet. I hear the words, but not the sincerity.
BEATA: You had your opportunity to object, Ariel. You were in the minority.
ARIEL: After seven years, the great ship Enterprise come to repatriate a small group of insignificant people.
RIKER: Mistress Ariel, I hear the words but not the sincerity.
ARIEL: You should listen more carefully. Excuse me, Mistress. I have matters to attend to elsewhere.
RIKER: With your permission, we'd like to begin our search immediately.
BEATA: By all means. But I'm sure that Counselor Troi and the others can do that without you. If I recall, you had a gesture of goodwill you wished to give to me?
RIKER: Certainly that can wait until we've recovered the survivors.
BEATA: Are you suggesting that the women in your party are incapable of accomplishing their task without the help of a man?
RIKER: Not at all. Lieutenant Yar and Counselor Troi are completely qualified.
BEATA: You're very generous with your praise. Inform them you will remain here with me.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Yar.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: This is Yar.

[Beata's quarters]
RIKER: In the interests of diplomatic relations, I'll remain here with Mistress Beata while you conduct our search.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Commander?
RIKER (voiceover): You have your instructions.

[Beata's quarters]
BEATA: Relax. We have much to discuss.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Set phasers to stun.
TROI: I wish they weren't necessary.
DATA: A justified precaution, Counselor. Mistress Beata observed that Mister Ramsey and his men are dangerous.
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Enterprise.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Go ahead, Tasha.
TASHA: Three to beam to the location of that platinum trace, Geordi.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Coordinates set.
TASHA: Energize.

[Hideout]
TROI: Tasha!
RAMSEY: Welcome. I've been expecting you.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: La Forge here.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Status report.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Eighty-two more reported cases of the virus, sir. Doctor Crusher's converted the holodeck into an isolation ward.
PICARD: And the away team?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Well, no recent contact, sir, but I have informed them of the medical situation up here and the growing Romulan threat to our Neutral Zone outpost.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Keep me advised. You have the Bridge until Commander Riker returns.

[Bridge]
WORF: Engineering reports a computer malf I'm sorry, I'm getting sick.
LAFORGE: I'm sure half the ship knows that by now. Report to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering to bridge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): The computer won't accept the variant climate controls.
LAFORGE: On my way.
WORF: With all respect, Lieutenant, there are people to do that job now.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. Lieutenant Wong knows the system. I'm sure she'll be able to resolve all problems. Worf, thanks for the advice.

[Hideout]
RAMSEY: How did you find me?
DATA: Actually, it was quite simple. Angel One has no platinum. Enterprise scanners did the rest.
RAMSEY: Platinum, was it? My wings. I kept them for their sentimental value.
TASHA: Where are the other survivors, Mister Ramsey?
RAMSEY: Oh, they're nearby. They're packing, as a matter of fact, since we can no longer remain here.
TROI: Seven years on an alien planet, and I sense no anticipation, no excitement at being rescued.
RAMSEY: What is it that you think you're rescuing me from? My shipmates and I have all taken wives. A few even have children. You can't rescue a man from a place that he calls his home.

[Beata's quarters]
RIKER: Why were you so hesitant at first to tell us about the Odin survivors?
BEATA: Simply because Ramsey and his men are anarchists. I had to make sure you weren't here to fuel their struggle. I like the way your eyes pick up the color of your tunic.
RIKER: It's not our position to interfere in the domestic affairs of other societies.
BEATA: But you can interact.
RIKER: Of course. Otherwise, how can we learn?
BEATA: Is that why you're here with me tonight? To learn?
RIKER: Yes.
BEATA: About our society.
RIKER: Yes.
BEATA: Well, in our society, it is the men who are the fortunate ones, enjoying all life has to offer while we women devote ourselves to the obligation of making life work.
RIKER: In our society, we share the responsibilities and the pleasures equally. Which is why I am able to be here with you while the women of the away team go to find Ramsey.
BEATA: You'll have to remind me to thank them when they come back for giving us this time.
BEATA: You resist. Don't you find me attractive?
RIKER: Yes, I find you very attractive.
BEATA: You attract me like no man ever has.
RIKER: It's not my function to seduce or be seduced by the leader of another world.
BEATA: It's not the reason.
RIKER: No, it's not. But will you still respect me in the morning?
BEATA: I hope so.
RIKER: Thank you, Trent.
BEATA: You may go.
RIKER: Compliments of the USS Enterprise. It's called an Albeni meditation crystal.
BEATA: Very impressive. And now I must repay you in kind.

[Hideout]
RAMSEY: Five months in a rescue pod no bigger than this room is an eternity I hope none of you will ever have to face. When we finally made it here, we thought we'd died and gone to heaven. You've seen the women of the planet. They're tall and strong and lovely. But after the newness wore off, we started to see how the men were treated. There's no votes. There's no opinions. There's no respect.
TASHA: None of which is your concern any longer, Mister Ramsey. Call the others in, please. It's time to leave.
RAMSEY: Despite their problems, Lieutenant, we happen to like it here on Angel One. We're not going anywhere.
TROI: But Mistress Beata
RAMSEY: Mistress Beata be damned! Her wish is not my command, and neither is yours. You can't force us to go.
DATA: Mister Ramsey is correct, Counselor. The Odin was not a starship, which means her crew is not bound by the Prime Directive. If he and the others wish to stay here, there is absolutely nothing we can do about it.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Bridge to Sickbay how are you Doing, Doctor?
CRUSHER: We have more sick than we do beds. So far I've been forced to confine over three hundred to their private quarters.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're going to be seriously undermanned if we're forced to engage the Romulans in battle.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The Romulans are your problem, Lieutenant. Trying to find an inoculants is mine. This virus mutates every twenty minutes. But so far we haven't had any fatalities, yet.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: If this continues, there'll be no one left to run the ship.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If this continues, Lieutenant La Forge, no one will be healthy enough to care.

[Bridge]
TASHA (voiceover): Yar to Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Enterprise here. Go ahead.

[Hideout]
TASHA: Prepare to beam three to our previous location, Geordi. After re-grouping with Commander Riker, we'll return to the ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I suggest you make that on the double, Tasha. We have a real medical emergency brewing up here.

[Hideout]
LAFORGE (voiceover): One third of the crew is down, and the latest information from the Neutral Zone outpost is that more Romulan vessels are converging on that area.
TASHA: I'll inform the Commander. Yar out. One thing before we go. You said you were expecting us. Why?
RAMSEY: I can't answer that.
TROI: We wish you well, Mister Ramsey.
TASHA: Energize.
RAMSEY: They're gone.

[Beata's quarters]
BEATA: What a refreshing change to be with a man who knows what he wants.
RIKER: And doesn't have to be told by a woman?
BEATA: Exactly. I knew you were bright enough to understand. You see, women, by our very nature, want only what is best for their men.
RIKER: Men are not objects to be possessed, Mistress Beata.
BEATA: Of course they're not. It was merely a figure of speech.
BEATA: Enter.
BEATA: What is so important you find it necessary to intrude upon my privacy?
TRENT: They have returned, Mistress, but without Ramsey or the others.
BEATA: Your advanced technology has proven inadequate?
RIKER: What happened, Tasha?
TROI: Mister Ramsey and the other survivors refuse to leave.
BEATA: You gave me your solemn word.
RIKER: I'm sorry, there's nothing else we can do.
BEATA: I'm sorry as well. Since you refuse to take them with you, I am left with no choice but to sentence them all to death.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: It looks horrible, tastes worse, and it's absolutely guaranteed to make you feel better.
CRUSHER: I knew you'd like it. Are you wearing cologne? Like something I smelled earlier. Something Klingon.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf and I detected the same scent when we bumped into your son at the Holodeck.
CRUSHER: It's that smell. That's how the virus travels. An airborne particle whose sweet scent inspires deep inhalation. And once inside the body, it becomes that damned virus. I have work to do.
PICARD: You are excused, Doctor.

[Great hall]
RIKER: What's the latest on the Enterprise's medical situation?
DATA: Doctor Crusher feels the virus will undoubtedly run unchecked through the entire ship. Attempts to develop an inoculants have so far ended in failure. Lieutenant La Forge still has Bridge command pending your return, sir.
RIKER: And what about the Romulans entering the Neutral Zone?
DATA: The border outpost reports a contingent of seven Romulan battlecruisers within sensor range. The USS Berlin has answered the distress call. However, should hostilities erupt, both the outpost and the starship will be out-gunned. It is felt that the Enterprise's presence in the area will be a vital show of force.
TASHA: Some show of force. The Enterprise could fly on autopilot, but with that virus knocking down our crew, we're going to be in sorry shape if things turn ugly.
RIKER: I think it's time we to leave this place.
TROI: It doesn't feel right to leave while Beata is determined to execute those people.
RIKER: She has to find them first. Ramsey and his bunch have been fugitives for years. I suspect he's pretty good at evading capture.
TROI: Something's wrong.
BEATA: Before you go back to your ship, there's something I want you to see.
RAMSEY: We were no harm to anyone. Why did you tell them where to find us?
BEATA: You brought this upon yourself. You and the traitor. One does not need the technology of the Enterprise to follow Mistress Ariel sneaking out to warn her husband. Let her stand with him now. For tomorrow they will die together.

[Beata's quarters]
RIKER: You claim to be an advanced society, and yet you resort to executions in order to suppress those who don't share your views.
BEATA: I don't expect you to understand.
RIKER: Why? Because I'm only a man?
BEATA: You'll accomplish nothing with that attitude.
RIKER: Mistress Beata, if you had an alternative to the execution of Ramsey and his followers, would you take it?
BEATA: Is that not the way of an advanced society?
RIKER: Then let us meet with the men from Odin one last time. Let me try to convince them to leave with us.
BEATA: Will you also include those from this world who unwisely choose to follow Ramsey and his group?
RIKER: Yes. All of them.

[Holding area]
TROI: Mistress Beata is willing to give you a second chance. We're prepared to take your entire group with us.
RAMSEY: That's very kind of you, but we're not going.
TASHA: Haven't you been paying attention, Ramsey? You're scheduled to be executed tomorrow.
RAMSEY: We don't want to die. We don't want to leave, either.
RIKER: There's no time to debate the issues. You're going with us whether you choose to go or not.
DATA: Excuse me, Commander, but removing any of these people against their will would be a violation of several Starfleet regulations, not the least of which would be the Prime Directive.
RIKER: I realize that, Mister Data. I'd rather face a court martial than live with the guilt of leaving these people to their deaths. Commander Riker to Enterprise.
CRUSHER (voiceover): This is the Enterprise. Crusher here.
TASHA: It must be worse up there than we thought.
RIKER: Doctor, where is Lieutenant La Forge?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: He's right here, but he's in bad shape.
RIKER (voiceover): Notify the transporter room I have fourteen to beam up.
CRUSHER: I can't allow it.

[Holding area]
CRUSHER (voiceover): This virus is totally out of control here. Until I know exactly what I'm dealing with, I can't let anyone new be exposed.
RIKER: Doctor, these people are facing their deaths down here.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: They might be facing the same thing up here. Until I have a better idea of what I'm dealing with, no one can beam up. I'm sorry, Will, but you must wait.

[Holding area]
RIKER: Understood. Doctor, would this virus have any effect on Mister Data?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Not likely.
RIKER: You're going back there alone. I want you to get the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone before it's too late.
DATA: This is Data, standing by to beam up.
TROI: What of them?
RIKER: I don't know, Deanna.

[Guest quarters]
TRENT: Mistress Beata invites you to witness this morning's reaffirmation of Angel One's moral imperative.
TASHA: Is that the civilized word for murder on this world?
RIKER: You send Mistress Beata our regrets.
TRENT: The Elected One will not look fondly upon
DATA (voiceover): Enterprise to Commander Riker.
TROI: They're still here!
RIKER: Riker here. Data, I gave you direct orders to get to Neutral Zone immediately. Explain the delay.

[Bridge]
DATA: To be precise, Commander, you ordered me to reach the Neutral Zone before it is too late.

[Guest quarters]
DATA: After relieving Lieutenant La Forge, I computed the length of time the border outpost

[Bridge]
DATA: And the USS Berlin can safely withstand a Romulan attack, and deducted our time to destination at maximum warp speed. That leaves Doctor Crusher forty eight minutes to develop an inoculants to the virus.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Which means there's still time for us to do something.
RIKER: Forty-eight minutes.

[Bridge]
DATA: Forty seven, sir.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Perhaps, Data, perhaps. Thank you

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): For following my orders so precisely, Data.

[Guest Quarters]
RIKER: On second thought, Trent, we would be honored to witness your moral imperative in action.

[Great Hall]
BEATA: We have determined that the heretical teachings of Ramsey and his followers are inconsistent with harmonious life on Angel One. Our patient efforts to silence revolutionary voices have failed. Therefore we are left with none but the most final alternative.
BEATA: As you can see, we are not without compassion. Your deaths will be swift and painless.
RIKER: Mistress Beata, before we see living examples of your compassion, may I speak?
BEATA: Is this a plea for leniency?
RIKER: Nothing of the sort. As the governing body of Angel One, you're entitled to execute your laws or your citizens as you see fit.
BEATA: Make your point, so we can proceed with this unpleasant business.
RIKER: When you spoke of the prisoners, you used the term revolutionary. Indeed, death has been known to stop revolutions. But I suspect it's not a revolution that Angel One is hoping to stop. It's evolution. Mister Ramsey and the Odin survivors did not initiate the waves of dissent that are rippling through your planet. Their presence here merely reinforced the change in attitudes between men and women that was already well under way. They became symbols around whom others who shared their views could gather. You may eliminate the symbols, but that does not mean death to the issues which those symbols represent. No power in the universe can hope to stop the force of evolution. Be warned. The execution of Mister Ramsey and his followers may elevate them to the status of martyrs. Martyrs cannot be silenced.
ARIEL: Beata!
BEATA: Stop. We will adjourn to consider your words.
RAMSEY: Thank you.
RIKER: I don't know if it was enough.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge.
DATA: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Bingo, Data.
DATA: Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a reference to an ancient Earth game?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's also a reference to success, Data. I've got the inoculants.

[Bridge]
DATA: Excellent, Doctor. We still have seventeen minutes left. I will inform the away team immediately. Enterprise to Riker.

[Great hall]
DATA (voiceover): We are ready to have you beamed up, Commander.
RIKER: Data, Ramsey and the prisoners are with us in the Great Hall. I want you to lock the transporter. Prepare to evacuate the entire group.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): But for now, stand by.
DATA: Understood, Commander.

[Great hall]
BEATA: After careful consideration, this legislature has voted to stay the execution of the prisoners. Their children will be returned to them immediately. Do not rejoice prematurely. Ramsey and his followers are to be exiled to a distant and unpopulated region. Life will be difficult there with little time for revolutionary or evolutionary upheaval. As some have observed, we may be able to stop evolution, but perhaps we can reduce it to a slow crawl. For a man, you can be very clever, Commander Riker.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Belay my previous order, Mister Data. There will now be only three to beam up. Energize.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Welcome home.
TROI: It's good to be back.
RIKER: Are they recovering?
CRUSHER: Slowly, but yes.
RIKER: And the Captain?
PICARD: The Captain is fine, thank you. Mister Data has been briefing me on the away team's comportment, Number One.
TROI: We improvised, sir.
PICARD: I look forward to your reports.
RIKER: Don't we have a call to pay on the Romulans, Captain?
PICARD: Indeed we do. Mister Data, set course for the Neutral Zone. Warp six.
DATA: Co-ordinates set. Warp six on your mark, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41365.9. The Enterprise has been ordered to Starbase 74, in orbit around Tarsas Three. A routine maintenance check of all systems will be made, and certain upgrades completed, including the holodeck, with which we've had problems. I anticipate a glowing report. The ship has performed magnificently, beyond anyone's expectations.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Coming into position.
RIKER: Stand by to dock.
DATA: Ready to dock, sir.
RIKER: Engage mooring beams and lock off.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. And docking complete.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Well done. And well done all.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Starbase maintenance approaching airlock five.
QUINTEROS: Commander Quinteros. Request permission to come aboard.
PICARD: Granted. Welcome.
QUINTEROS: Captain.
PICARD: Commander Riker. (The group head down the corridor, including a pair of 'mirror image' small humanoids)
QUINTEROS: Commander. You're late. We expected you a week ago.
RIKER: We were unexpectedly delayed at Omicron Pascal.
QUINTEROS: Is there anything specific you wish to report, or that we should be aware of?
PICARD: No. We are very pleased with the operation of the Enterprise.
QUINTEROS: I knew you would be - I was in charge of the team which put her together.
RIKER: And are these gentlemen the Bynars?

[Engineering]
QUINTEROS: They're not gentlemen, or ladies, Commander. They are a unified pair. They're always together. This is One Zero. And this is Zero One. They just finished upgrading the computers on the Wellington. Did a great job.
PICARD: Your reputation precedes you. I'm very pleased you're going to be improving our system.
ONE ZERO: It is a great pleasure
ZERO ONE: to work on such a large mobile computer.
PICARD: You have forty eight hours, because at forty eight plus six we have an appointment at Pelleus Five we must keep.
ZERO ONE: I thought we'd
ONE ZERO: have more time.
PICARD: I'm sorry. This mission can't be delayed. If you want to postpone the work?
ZERO ONE: Oh, no. This is
ONE ZERO: the best time
ZERO ONE: to do it.
ONE ZERO: We can complete
ZERO ONE: our work within the
ONE ZERO: time allotted.
QUINTEROS: They work very quickly, but it'll be very tight.
PICARD: Commander Riker and I will stay on board, be available should you need us.
QUINTEROS: Thank you, Captain. I don't think we'll need you until we're ready for inspection.

[Corridor]
RIKER: The Bynars seem perfect for this. Even though this is the first time I've ever come in contact with them.
PICARD: As I understand it, over time they have become so interconnected with the master computer on their planet that their language, their thought patterns have become as close to binary as it's possible for organic beings.
RIKER: It'll be interesting to see how they improve a computer as advanced as ours.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. Well, I have a little work to finish up, then I'm going to my cabin. I'm going to put my feet up, I'm going to turn on my personal relaxation light and I'm going to lose myself in the pages of some old novel. What about you, Number One? You've earned a rest.
RIKER: I've never been very good at organizing my time off. Something'll turn up. It always does.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'll be in my ready room. And Number One, good work.
RIKER: I thought there were only going to be two of you.
ONE ZERO: Because of the limited time allotted us
ZERO ONE: We need others
RIKER: Is there a problem?
ZERO ONE: No.
ONE ZERO: No. No problem.
RIKER: Then why are you acting so excited?
ZERO ONE: Because we have to
ONE ZERO: The stacking
ZERO ONE: To reconfigure the computer
ONE ZERO: To communicate with itself
ZERO ONE: More efficiently
ONE ZERO: And at higher speeds.
WESLEY: You act like you don't believe them.
RIKER: I'm not sure that I do. Maybe it's probably nothing.
WESLEY: Perhaps it's just how another species behaves.
RIKER: Maybe. I'm going to stroll the ship. You've got the Bridge. Keep your eye on them.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
TASHA: We've been challenged to a friendly game of Parrises Squares by some of the maintenance personnel. Want to join us on the starbase?
RIKER: You've already got all the players you need.
TASHA: We can switch off.
RIKER: No, you know if you do that in Parrises Squares you lose the rhythm of the game.
TASHA: I can't talk you into coming with us?
RIKER: No. But win, all right? The pride of the Enterprise goes with you.
WORF: Rest assured, Commander, we will be victorious. At whatever the cost.
RIKER: Worf, it's just a game. A little friendly competition, You work up a sweat, you have a few laughs, and you make new friends.
WORF: If winning is not important, then, Commander, why keep score?
TASHA: I think he's pulling your leg. Believe it or not, Worf is developing a sense of humor.
RIKER: I hope so, for their sake. )
RIKER: Computer. There's a power reduction in section L-Ninety Four. Explain.
COMPUTER: Unoccupied sections are being closed down in order to clear space in the main computer banks. It is necessary to facilitate the system upgrade. Full power can be restored if needed.

[Observation Lounge]
LAFORGE: Well, what do you think?
RIKER: Tell me what it's supposed to be, then I'll give you my opinion.
DATA: It is an attempt at pure creativity.
LAFORGE: What we're investigating is, can Data be creative?
DATA: And this is my attempt, with guidance from Geordi.
LAFORGE: I suggested the zylo eggs.
RIKER: Is that what those are?
RIKER: Keep notes. This project might turn out to be of interest to scholars in the future.
LAFORGE: Really?
RIKER: Well of course. Think about it. A blind man teaching an android how to paint? That's got to be worth a couple of pages in somebody's book.

[Doctor's office]
RIKER: You look like you're packing to leave forever.
CRUSHER: Oh, Commander Riker. No, I'm just gathering my notes. Professor Terence Epstein is at this starbase.
RIKER: Is that someone I should know of?
CRUSHER: He's the leading mind in cybernetics. He lectured at my medical school. You know the disaster at Micromius?

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Well, since then I've been working on an approach that combines cybernetics and regeneration. It sounds impossible, I know, but I have found an approach which will work. I mean, what an opportunity. To have a chance to talk with Doctor Epstein. Sorry, Will, I'd love to chat, but I have to go.

[Outside holodeck]
RIKER: How's it going?
ZERO ZERO: We are almost done.
ONE ONE: The deviation
ZERO ZERO: caused by a previous
ONE ONE: probe has been corrected
ZERO ZERO: You may use the equipment
ONE ONE: anytime you wish.
RIKER: How much has been changed? What exactly did you do?
ONE ONE: Enhancement.
ZERO ZERO: Nothing more.
ZERO ZERO: Would you like to try
ONE ONE: the enhancement?
RIKER: All right. What should I choose? Computer, I'd like some place to play some music. A little atmosphere.
COMPUTER: Specify.
RIKER: Jazz.
COMPUTER: Era?
RIKER: Circa 1958.
COMPUTER: Location.
RIKER: Kansas City. No, wait. New Orleans. Bourbon Street Bar, New Orleans. Around two a.m.
COMPUTER: Program complete. Enter when ready.

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Very good. Very good indeed. Now I'll need someone to play with. A trio. Piano, bass and drums, and a 'bone for me.
RIKER: Now an audience. Whoa. Too many. I was thinking of something a little more intimate.
RIKER: Great job, boys. But, computer, blondes and jazz seldom go together. Now that is truly exceptional. But more sultry.
RIKER: Gentlemen, if this is what you call enhancement, you've got a gift for understatement.
RIKER: What's your name? Tell me you love jazz.
MINUET: My name is Minuet and I love all jazz except Dixieland.
RIKER: Why not Dixieland?
MINUET: You can't dance to it.
RIKER: My girl. What's a knockout like you doing in a computer-generated gin joint like this?
MINUET: Waiting for you.
RIKER: Waiting for me? You can't be serious.
MINUET: Oh yes, Will. I've never been more serious in my life.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Can I ask you a question about the Bynars?
QUINTEROS: Why not just ask them?
WESLEY: What is that high-speed sound you make?
ZERO ONE: That is our
ONE ZERO: primary language.
WESLEY: How can you process information at that speed?
ZERO ONE: We store the information
ONE ZERO: with these buffers.
ZERO ONE: We receive information
ONE ZERO: all the time
ZERO ONE: and save it
ONE ZERO: until we need it.
WESLEY: How did you happen to develop this ability?
ONE ZERO: It happened over
ZERO ONE: a long period of time.
WESLEY: To have a society so intermixed on computers has tremendous advantages.
ONE ZERO: And a few
ZERO ONE: disadvantages.
PICARD: Everything under control, Ensign Crusher?
WESLEY: Fine, Captain. I was just trying to find something about the Bynars.
PICARD: Where's Commander Riker?
WESLEY: He's in holodeck four. Shall I call him for you, sir?
PICARD: No, I'll go down there myself. Keep me apprised.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Bourbon Street Bar]
BASS: Hey, man, the chick digs you.
RIKER: What makes you say that?
BASS: Hey, look at her.
RIKER: Maybe it's my music.
PIANO: Yeah, well, about that. Don't give up your day job.
RIKER: Too real.
BASS: You got that straight, Slim. Too real is too right.
RIKER: Thanks for letting me sit in.
PIANO: Ain't nothin' to it.
RIKER: I'm going to have to leave for a while to see to my duties.
MINUET: Your work's very important to you.
RIKER: It is me. It's what I am.
MINUET: Can we dance once before you leave?
RIKER: Sure, why not. How did you learn to dance so well?
MINUET: From following you. I can anticipate your lead. So, tell me about your work. What is it about it that consumes and enthralls you?
RIKER: Interesting choice of words. That's exactly what it does.
MINUET: You're very fortunate.
RIKER: I know that.
MINUET: To be exactly where you want to be. And it's great that you realize it.
RIKER: I'd be a fool not to realize how lucky I am to be on this ship serving with these people. It's like a dream come true. Just like this.
MINUET: A dream? Is that what this is? Is that what I am?
RIKER: I know you are a computer-generated image, but your smell, your touch, the way you feel. Even the things you say and think seem so real.
MINUET: Thank you.
RIKER: How far can this relationship go? I mean, how real are you?
MINUET: As real as you need me to be.
PICARD: Astounding.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Oh, I'm sorry, Number One. I didn't mean to interrupt.
RIKER: No, it's all right. Come on in.
PICARD: You picked a wonderful locale. This is something I might have chosen myself.
MINUET: Aren't you going to introduce me?
RIKER: Captain Picard, this is Minuet. Minuet, Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
MINUET: Enchantee. Comme c'est merveilleux de vous voir ici.
PICARD: Incroyable! Vous etes Parisienne?
MINUET: Au fond, c'est vrai, nous sommes tous Parisiens.
PICARD: Oui, au fond, nous sommes tous Parisiens. The spirit of that city can always enchant my soul.
MINUET: I have been hoping to meet you.
PICARD: Oh. Have I been the subject of conversation?
MINUET: Indirectly. Come, join us, Jean-Luc. A glass of wine?
PICARD: Thank you.
MINUET: Will was saying how much he enjoys this assignment. It's a credit to you. For a ship and crew to function well it always starts with the Captain. You set the tone.
PICARD: At the moment, it's you who are setting the tone. The sophistication of this programming is remarkable.
MINUET: In what way?
PICARD: The holodeck has been able to give us woodlands and ski slopes, figures that fight and fictional characters with which we can interact, but you, you're very different. You adapt. You spoke to me in French.
MINUET: It was very simple. When I heard your name, I merely accessed the foreign language bank.
PICARD: That's very impressive.
MINUET: Oui, mon chou.

[Observation Lounge]
LAFORGE: Now what are you doing?
DATA: I am awaiting inspiration.
WESLEY (voiceover): Commander Data?
DATA: This is Commander Data. Go ahead, please.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I'm getting an indication of possible trouble in main Engineering, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Can you be more specific?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I'm afraid not. I'm reading a problem with the magnetic containment field which contains the antimatter. Could you come up here?

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We'll go to Engineering since that's where the trouble is. Wes, don't disturb the Captain or Commander Riker until we check this out.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is main Engineering.
WESLEY (voiceover): This is the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Are you running any test programs up there?
WESLEY (voiceover): No.
LAFORGE: Are the Bynars?
WESLEY (voiceover): Not to my knowledge. Is there a problem?
LAFORGE: I don't know. There's no one on duty here, and we're getting some very strange readings from the magnetic containment field.
DATA: The field is deteriorating. Contact the captain immediately. I am initiating Red Alert.
LAFORGE: Data, I can't maintain the integrity of the containment field.
DATA: Engineering to Captain. If the antimatter is released, the ship will be destroyed.
LAFORGE: Nothing I do has any effect. I'm losing it. Data, I've rechecked every circuit. This is not a misread by the computer.
DATA: Computer, situation analysis.
COMPUTER: Estimate release of antimatter in four minutes eighteen seconds. Seventeen seconds. Sixteen seconds.
DATA: Engineering to Bridge.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: This is the bridge.

[Engineering]
DATA: Alert starbase. Inform them we are abandoning the ship. Tell them why. Initiate automated sequence for departure. Set course and speed course and speed to put maximum distance between the Enterprise and any inhabited planets.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Shouldn't we wait for the Captain's approval?
DATA (voiceover): There is no time.

[Engineering]
DATA: Based on all information presently available, the decision is correct. This is Lieutenant Commander Data speaking for the Captain. Abandon ship. This is not a drill. All personnel. This is not a drill. I say again, abandon ship. All personnel, this is not a drill.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Abandon ship.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Decks two through four to cargo transporters. Decks five through ten, proceed to transporters one, two, three and four. Decks six through sixteen, proceed to transporters five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: Hold your positions please. Prepare to energize. And energize.
COMPUTER: Decks seventeen through twenty eight proceed to transporters eleven, twelve, thirteen and fourteen.

[Airlock]
COMPUTER: Decks twenty nine through forty two, proceed to transporters fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen and twenty. This is not a drill. This is not a drill.

[Starbase Command Center]
WORF: What's going on?
QUINTEROS: Please stand out of the way.
CRUSHER: The Enterprise is being evacuated.
WORF: Why?
CRUSHER: Some problem in Engineering.
TASHA: Get a Security team together.
WORF: Aye, Lieutenant. Ship's log, supplemental. This is Lieutenant Commander Data. I have put the ship on automated departure and ordered the complete evacuation of the Enterprise. Everyone remaining is leaving on foot or beaming off.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, where are the Captain and Commander Riker?
COMPUTER: All decks empty.
DATA: Curious. The Captain is usually the last to leave.
LAFORGE: Let's go. We've only got forty one seconds.
LAFORGE: I think we're the last.
DATA: I hope we are.

[Starbase Command Center]
WORF: Did you see the Captain and Commander Riker?
DATA: No. Are they not here on Starbase?
TASHA: No, we thought
LAFORGE: You mean they're still on the Enterprise?
WORF: Yes. Sir, where is your transporter room?
DATA: We have to beam back and get them.
QUINTEROS: You haven't time.
STARBASE: This is Starbase 74. The Enterprise magnetic field is regenerating.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. How is that possible?
STARBASE: Unknown.
TASHA: That changes nothing. The Captain and Commander Riker must be in trouble, or they'd be here.
QUINTEROS: Look. Your ship is almost clear.

[Holodeck]
MINUET: And the boy never found out?
RIKER: Oh, yes, but not until later when he came back into the room with his little sister.
MINUET: I'll bet both of them were all smiles.
RIKER: Yes, but by that time both of them had been found out.
MINUET: You handled that in a very thoughtful way. You're very good with people. Don't you agree, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: She's so very different from the images we've experienced on the holodeck, isn't she? She's more intuitive.
RIKER: It's as though she's been plugged into my subconscious. She already knows what I want her to say before I'm aware of it myself.
PICARD: I suppose it's an understandable progression. Computers make decisions based on inputs and we humans give off a multitude of subtle signs that communicate our emotions.
RIKER: It's uncanny. I could develop feelings for Minuet, exactly as I would for any woman.
PICARD: Doesn't love always begin that way? With the illusion being more real than the woman?
MINUET: Oh, Jean-Luc, spoken like a true Frenchman.
PICARD: Well, I think I'll be leaving.
MINUET: Oh, don't go.
PICARD: Two's company.
MINUET: We have time. There's no rush. I'd really like it if you would stay.
RIKER: Yes, Captain, stay.
PICARD: This is your diversion, Number One, not mine.
MINUET: Wait! We haven't danced.
PICARD: I don't dance.
MINUET: Then some more wine.
PICARD: No, thank you.
MINUET: Wait! Please! Please, don't go. You can't. Not yet.
RIKER: Why? What's the matter? Why can't he leave?
PICARD: Exit!
PICARD: Captain to Bridge. Situation report.
RIKER: Riker to Bridge.
PICARD: Computer, explain Red Alert.
COMPUTER: Initiated as a programmed response. The magnetic field containing the antimatter had weakened. There was no fail-safe available.
PICARD: Why wasn't I notified?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
PICARD: Present condition?
COMPUTER: The magnetic field is now restored. Containment is restored. Propulsion is at maximum efficiency.
PICARD: Locate Lieutenant Commander Data.
COMPUTER: Not on board the Enterprise.
PICARD: Explain.
COMPUTER: All Enterprise personnel except the Captain and First Officer have been evacuated.
PICARD: Evacuated? Was the condition that critical?
COMPUTER: Yes.
RIKER: Are we still docked at the starbase?
COMPUTER: No.
PICARD: Position report.
COMPUTER: Co-ordinates four one five nine point two six by eight one nine two one by three one two. Heading two three three mark four five.
PICARD: Destination?
COMPUTER: Planet Bynaus in the Beta Magellan system.
RIKER: The Bynars.
PICARD: Am I to understand the Bynars have stolen the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: That information is not available.
PICARD: It's the Bynars, and you're part of this.
MINUET: Yes.
RIKER: They made you the lure to keep me here. They programmed you while I was relaxing.
MINUET: Yes. When they saw your interest in me, they thought I could distract you and keep you here.
PICARD: That explains, Riker. What about me?
MINUET: Your being here was just a fortunate happenstance.
RIKER: Why do they want with me?
PICARD: What do they want with the Enterprise? What's their purpose?
MINUET: I'm not programmed to give you that information.
PICARD: Come on, Number One. We've got to regain control of our ship.

[Starbase Command Center]
LAFORGE: Okay, so what do we do?
DATA: Which is the nearest Starfleet vessel?
QUINTEROS: The Trieste.
DATA: I know the Trieste. Too small, too slow.
QUINTEROS: Plus it's sixty six hours away.
DATA: Where are the Bynars?
QUINTEROS: I haven't seen them.
DATA: They are obviously still aboard. Another Starfleet vessel must be sent to intercept the Enterprise at Bynaus. They might be taking the ship to their home planet.
QUINTEROS: What makes you think so?
DATA: It is the best place for us to start.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Picard. Access.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We now know who has commandeered the Enterprise. The Bynars. We can't communicate with the Bridge. Commander Riker and I will now try to regain control of our ship.

[Corridor]
PICARD: This way.
RIKER: That's toward Engineering.
PICARD: That's our first stop. Verify containment and initiate auto-destruct.
RIKER: Initiate auto-destruct?
PICARD: Our ship has been commandeered by a force of unknown size and intent. We're here alone. We must assume the worst.

[Engineering]
PICARD: If we don't regain control, then no one else must have it either. Now, this is the one decision involving the operation of this vessel which requires you and I to be in total agreement.
RIKER: It's the time allotted that concerns me.
PICARD: As to that, there's no option.
RIKER: I know. It's a five minute countdown.
PICARD: That's sufficient to get to the Bridge. Once there, either we'll get control of the ship and shut off the auto-destruct, or we won't. This vessel must not fall into hostile hands.
RIKER: Then let's set it and get going.
COMPUTER: Recognize Picard, Jean-Luc, Captain. Recognize Riker, William T, Commander.
PICARD: Set auto-destruct sequence.
COMPUTER: Does the First Officer concur?
RIKER: Yes. Set auto-destruct sequence. Now.
COMPUTER: Auto-destruct will detonate in four minutes and fifty-nine seconds.
PICARD: The only place we can stop this is on the Bridge. Let's go.
RIKER: What do you make of this, sir?
PICARD: An enormous amount of data is being received and stored in the main computer.
RIKER: Just stored. Why?
PICARD: It's another piece to of puzzle.

[Outside Turbolift]
COMPUTER: Bridge access denied.
PICARD: They've locked it off. We must find another way to get in.
RIKER: One of us could beam into the Bridge.
PICARD: No, it takes several seconds to materialize. You wouldn't stand a chance.
RIKER: I could beam into the turbolift, force the doors, take them by surprise.
PICARD: No, we'll both beam in simultaneously in two different areas of the Bridge. With luck one of us will be a distraction.
RIKER: There must be only four minutes left.

[Starbase Command Center]
LAFORGE: Still no response from the Enterprise.
WORF: They would answer if they could. Someone else has control of the ship.
DATA: Do you think I am responsible?
LAFORGE: Responsible? How could you possibly have known?
DATA: My station is on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: You can't be on the Bridge every second, Data.
DATA: You are wrong, Geordi. I can. I do not need rest or diversion. I should not have been painting. I was negligent.
TASHA: It's a pointless discussion, Data. You could have been on the Bridge and it still might have happened. Commander Quinteros, you have three ships in here. We need one of them now.
QUINTEROS: We're rushing repairs on the USS Melbourne, but it's still eighteen hours until she'll be ready. There's nothing else you can do.

[Transporter Room]
PICARD: Set coordinates for main Bridge. Port forward for me and aft for you.
RIKER: You're on pad two. I've set a ten second delay.
PICARD: Set phasers on stun. Number One, good luck.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Over here, Captain.
PICARD: Why did you steal my ship?
ONE ZERO: Please try to
ZERO ONE: help us.
PICARD: Cancel auto-destruct.
COMPUTER: Does the First Officer agree?
RIKER: Affirmative.
COMPUTER: Auto-destruct canceled.
RIKER: We're in orbit around Bynaus. How are they?
PICARD: They appear dead. Let's see if we can get some answers from Bynaus.
RIKER: Their main computer is off. All sensors reveal that all of the equipment on the planet is inert. They can neither receive nor send any messages.
PICARD: What about all the people in that world who are totally dependant on their computer? Are they still functioning?
RIKER: They're probably like these Bynars here. Dying. What is this all about? Why did they steal the ship and bring it here? What is their purpose?
PICARD: They went to an awful lot of trouble to clear computer space. Let's see what they've stored.
RIKER: Captain, it's enormous. Every byte of free space in the computer has been filled. They must have made a core-dump from their world to our computer. I can't get in. I wish they'd left a note.
PICARD: Maybe they did.
RIKER: Minuet.
PICARD: Maybe.

[Bourbon Street Bar]
RIKER: Tell me what this is all about.
MINUET: A star in the Bynar system went supernova and they miscalculated. The electromagnetic pulse from the explosion was going to knock out their main computer.
PICARD: So their only choice was to transfer all the stored information and shut down until after it passed. And then reactivate their system and transfer the information back to this main computer.
RIKER: The Enterprise has the only mobile computer large enough to handle all that information.
PICARD: So what went wrong? Why are they dying?
MINUET: The star went supernova before it was expected, and you were late arriving at Starbase 74.
PICARD: Why didn't they say something? Why didn't they just ask for help?
MINUET: I don't know. I don't have those answers.
PICARD: Is there anything we can do?
MINUET: Yes. Return the data stored on the Enterprise's computer back to the one on Bynaus.
RIKER: How can we do that?
MINUET: You don't know?
RIKER: Yes. If we had the file name. But we don't. Do you?
MINUET: I don't know what you're talking about.
PICARD: They wouldn't intentionally hide it or make it difficult for us to find. It must be right in front of our faces.
RIKER: We should call Starbase 74, and see if anyone can decipher this.
MINUET: They're dying. They meant you no harm. It was their world they were trying to save. Help them, Will. Hurry. Please.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Starbase 74, this is the Enterprise. Do you read me?

[Starbase Command Center]
QUINTEROS: This is Starbase 74. Captain Picard, what is your situation?

[Bridge]
PICARD: We'll go into that later. Right now I must speak to Lieutenant Commander Data.
DATA (voiceover): I am here, sir.
PICARD: Data, the Bynars have stored an enormous amount of material in our computer. We need to access it. We can't.

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: The access would be available by code or password.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, I know that, Data, but what could it be?

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: File names can be anything, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: They want us to find it. They would have kept it simple.

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: Then a name, or a place. It could be something personal. In this case, in binary language, which is ones and zeros in groups of eight or sixteen characters.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Would they have kept it that simple? Try it. Picard out.
RIKER: That's the file. It'll work now.
PICARD: Now access the file. Start the transfer.
RIKER: So much for that idea.
PICARD: Let me get on the other position. The Bynars always work in pairs. Maybe that is also required. It appears to be successful. Their system's started up. A resident diagnostic program is running. Their system is absolutely incredible.
ZERO ONE: Our world
ONE ZERO: is reactivated.
ZERO ONE: Our people
ONE ZERO: express their gratitude.
ZERO ZERO: We will return to
ONE ONE: your starbase for whatever
ZERO ZERO: punishment your system
ONE ONE: requires of us.
PICARD: Why didn't you just ask for our help?
ZERO ONE: You might have
ONE ZERO: said no.
RIKER: But there was a very good chance we would have said yes.
ZERO ZERO: Our need was too great
ONE ONE: to risk rejection.
PICARD: So you stole it.
RIKER: Their reason is part of their binary thinking. For them there are only two choices. One or zero. Yes or no. Why did you lure me to the holodeck and hold me there.
ONE ZERO: Because we knew we might die.
ZERO ONE: And we needed someone
ONE ZERO: to restore our computer.
ZERO ONE: And you did.
PICARD: No one has been hurt. You have achieved your objective. You have your planet back in order. We have our ship. Well, it's been some time since I had the conn. But not to worry, Number One, you're in good hands. Starbase 74, warp two. Engage. Everything's under control.

[Starbase Command Center]
COMPUTER: USS Enterprise has cleared the starbase perimeter.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Is everything all right?
PICARD: We're fine. Everything is in order. But now, I want a complete check, all systems, all divisions.
TASHA: What about the Bynars?
PICARD: Turn them over to Quinteros. There will be a hearing.
ZERO ONE: We understood that
ONE ZERO: would happen.
TASHA: Follow me, please.
RIKER: While these things are being checked, permission to leave the Bridge, sir.
PICARD: Permission granted.

[Bourbon Street Bar]
RIKER: What is a knockout like you doing in a computer generated gin joint like this?
RIKER: You're not Minuet.

[Bridge]
RIKER: She's gone. I tried variations of the program, others appeared, but not Minuet.
PICARD: Maybe it was all part of the Bynar's programming. But you know, Number One, some relationships just can't work.
RIKER: Yes, probably true. She'll be difficult to forget.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41463.9. While mapping the Pleiades Cluster, we've been asked by the Federation to visit a group terraforming Velara Three. Communications have been erratic and there is some concern about their welfare.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Entering standard orbit now.
PICARD: It takes very special people to live in such desolation.
TROI: Visionaries who don't see this planet as it is, but as it will be.
RIKER: I've always wanted to see terraforming in operation.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Velara Three base, this is Captain Picard of the starship Enterprise.
TASHA: No malfunctioning equipment on either side, sir. They are receiving us.
PICARD: Velara Three base, this is the Enterprise. Come in please. Over.
LAFORGE: Maybe no one's home.
DATA: We are sensing life-forms, sir.
PICARD: Velara Three base, do you copy?
MANDL (screen): Velara base to Enterprise. Yes, Captain, I'm Director Mandl. I'm sorry about the delay, but we weren't expecting visitors.
PICARD: Terraform Command has asked us to see how you were getting along.
MANDL (screen): We were a little behind, but we're back on schedule. I'd like to hope we'd be allowed to maintain that schedule.
TROI: We alarm him for some reason.
PICARD: Your staff is all well, I presume, Director?
MANDL (screen): Understandably tired. We're working very hard, Captain.
PICARD: If there anything we can do to help? You and your staff are welcome aboard for a change of scene, rest.
RIKER: We have some holodecks which you might enjoy.
MANDL (screen): No disrespect, sir, but we cannot afford the time.
COMPUTER: Channel closed.
TROI: His fear is escalating.
MANDL (screen): If you will excuse me, sir, I really must get back to work.
TROI: I sense deliberate concealment, sir.
PICARD: Of what?
TROI: I don't know, but it's intense.
PICARD: Director Mandl, we've heard of your remarkable achievements in terraforming. My crew would very much appreciate looking around.
MANDL (screen): This is not really the best time. We are at a very critical phase just now.
PICARD: We would require no special attention.
MANDL (screen): I'm trying not to be rude, sir, but this is really very inconvenient.
TROI: He is concealing something. It's more than just being too busy. Your announcement about coming down has sent him almost to a point of panic.
PICARD: Well, whether he wants us or not. Director Mandl, unless you're absolutely refusing permission for us to land at your station, prepare to receive our away team.
MANDL (screen): As you wish.
PICARD: Counselor, perhaps you'd better go along as well.
TROI: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Someone that tense could be very unpredictable. Stay on your toes, Number One.

[Control room]
LUISA: Welcome to Velara Three. Please. I want you to remember it as it is now, because in a couple of decades you won't recognize it. Luisa Kim. Gardener of Edens.
RIKER: Commander William Riker, USS Enterprise. This is Counselor Troi, Lieutenant Yar, Lieutenant La Forge, Lieutenant Commander Data.
LUISA: Arthur Malencon, hydraulics specialist, and Bjorn Benson, Chief Engineer.
BENSON: An android?
TASHA: And third in command of the Enterprise.
BENSEN: Where were you manufactured? Are there others like you?
DATA: Both matters are subjects of protracted discussion.
BENSEN: Remarkable. Excuse me.
LUISA: We don't get many visitors. It's exciting to have you here.
RIKER: We weren't sure how we would be received. Director Mandl was less than enthusiastic about our interest.
LUISA: I should apologize for him. We are at a critical phase. Usually he's quite charming.
RIKER: We'll try to stay out of the way. We've never seen a terraforming station, and we appreciate the opportunity.
LUISA: How much do you know about the process?
DATA: Theories, reports, but nothing first-hand.
LUISA: Oh, wonderful. Let me show you what we do. Newcomers find this
TROI: The other two are secretive, but she is as open as she appears.
LUISA: What we're doing is so exciting, so inspiring. We take a lifeless planet and little by little transform it into an M class environment, capable of supporting life. Terraforming makes you feel a little god-like. The first phase involves selecting the planet. That's very important. It must have the right mass and gravity, the correct rate of rotation, and a balanced day and night. The planet must also be without life or the prospect of life developing naturally. The Federation determines if that's so. Then, we take over. This station is phase two. Phase Three involves water. Usually we create basins using hydraulic landscaping, but the water on this planet is subsurface, and extremely high in salt content. We are just about to begin pumping and filtering the water, removing the salt, oxygenating and replacing. Next, we introduce micro-organisms, and when the process is complete eventually, we'll have a lush, arable, biosphere.
RIKER: You make it sound poetic.
LUISA: I think it's the best job in the universe.
DATA: The efficiency of your hydraulic landscaping is quite elegant.
MALENCON: It isn't yet, but it will be. Right now I'm disturbed by erratic power surges in several of the servo-mechanisms that control the hydraulic probes.
LAFORGE: Could it be the increased conductivity caused by the high saline content?
MALENCON: That was my first thought, but I
BENSEN: Arthur. The factors do not support that conclusion.
MANDL: I'm Director Mandl, and I'm sorry about having been so abrupt during our initial contact. Being isolated, one tends to forget the social graces. Are you seeing everything that you want?
TROI: What you're doing here is miraculous.
MANDL: What we are doing here is working a difficult and demanding timetable, and there will be no miracle unless Malencon here gets the hydraulic probes back on line. We are set to step up to full conversion immediately. Shouldn't you be in the hydraulic chamber, Arthur?
MALENCON: Now?
MANDL: Yes.
MALENCON: All right, Kurt.
DATA: Geordi, this appears to be the master subsurface pump.
LAFORGE: You're right. Very impressive.
DATA: This is interesting. The water table is a thin ribbon between the sandy surface layer and the rocks below.
LAFORGE: And those two surfaces follow that contour so precisely, the water maintains a consistent depth between them.
DATA: Which would require extreme precision from the probe controls.
MANDL: Here we have something which may be of interest to you. A vegetation graph. It is really the key center for successful terraforming.
RIKER: Incredible. It's planned month by month, decade by decade?
MANDL: Every single thing is specific and exact. You see grand, romantic concepts. I see unyielding rock under an ocean of sand.
TROI: Commander!
RIKER: What is it, Deanna?
TROI: Malencon. He's in trouble!
MALENCON (voiceover): Help! Help! Argh!
RIKER: Can you open it?
MANDL: It's jammed. First Officer's log, stardate 41464.3. What began as a routine visit to a terraforming site has turned into something far more serious. Arthur Malencon, the hydraulics engineer, has been critically injured by a laser drill which appears to have malfunctioned.

[Hydraulics room]
PICARD (voiceover): Situation report, Number One.
RIKER: For safety reasons, we're shutting off all power to the Hydraulics room before entering to recover the body. Then we'll beam him up to Sickbay, but from the look of his wounds, it's probably hopeless.
PICARD (voiceover): Keep me informed.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Data ?
DATA: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Control room]
BENSEN: All set.
LAFORGE: Data, we have your section completely powered down now. Bensen has just locked the master servomotor drive system.

[Hydraulics room]
TASHA: I'm going in.
DATA: I will go with you.
TASHA: Transporter Room, this is Lieutenant Yar. Two to beam up to Sickbay.
LUISA: I want to go. We should be with him. Kurt, please come too.
RIKER: Transporter Room, this is Commander Riker. Beam up four at my co-ordinates.

[Control room]
DATA (voiceover): Geordi, this is intriguing. I have seen malfunctions

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: But this is almost as if the laser drill seemed to operate itself with a will

[Control room]
DATA (voiceover): Separate from it's control console.
BENSEN: I can't explain it.

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: The laser blasts seemed to end when the yelling stopped.

[Control room]
BENSEN: Maybe Arthur stopped it, only not in time.

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: Not possible.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: Then what are you suggesting?

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: Uncertain. Geordi, please return power to the control console in this room. I wish to reactivate the program.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: You got it.

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: I am running the base drilling program.

[Control room]
DATA (voiceover): Geordi, servos off.
BENSEN: They are off.
LAFORGE: Data, what's happening?
DATA (voiceover): Too much to explain.
LAFORGE: Can you open that? La Forge to Enterprise. We have a problem.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Be specific.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: Data's in the hydraulics room alone, and we're hearing laser blasts.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Get him out of there!

[Control room]
BENSEN: It's not working again.
LAFORGE: We've got to get this door open. Data! We can't get in! Data! Data! Data!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Away team, now. What is happening?

[Hydraulics room]
PICARD (voiceover): I'm going to beam him out of there.
DATA: Bridge, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. No need to beam me up, sir. The situation is under control.
LAFORGE: Are you all right?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: What happened? Did you do anything which might have set it off?
DATA: No, but the firing program was dynamic.
LAFORGE: The firing program? In what way?
DATA: It adjusted to my tactics. It tracked with me, anticipating. A fixed program could not have done that.
LAFORGE: Are you suggesting that someone was controlling the aiming and firing sequence?
DATA: That is exactly how it appeared. There was a mind working against me.
BENSEN: What did you do to this laser drill? A year's work destroyed!
DATA: I had no choice.

[Ready room]
DATA: We were attempting to trace the source of the malfunction when it attacked me.
MANDL: How much more of this useless fantasy must I listen to?
PICARD: None at all, Mister Mandl. Until this is sorted out, I've provided temporary quarters for you and your staff. Perhaps you'd like to make use of them.
MANDL: You're overstepping your authority, Picard. You have no right to interfere.
PICARD: Mister Mandl, an attack on one of my crew gives me the right.
MANDL: I have a schedule to meet.
PICARD: Your schedule is on hold, until I have a satisfactory explanation of this. Director Mandl. Lieutenant Yar, would you escort the Director to his quarters.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Go on with your report.
DATA: It would appear the laser's drilling system was reprogrammed, sir. As soon as its memory bank received power, it turned itself on and went after me. Fortunately, I was able to cope with it.
LAFORGE: And not by much, from what I saw.
DATA: I believe it was programmed to destroy any person moving in that room, sir.
PICARD: Certainty? Or speculation?
DATA: Certainty.
LAFORGE: That would have required the talents of a master programr.
DATA: But it was done.
PICARD: And so the question becomes not who, since it clearly was one of the three remaining terraformers. The question becomes why? What are they hiding? What could be so important that one or all of them, could be desperate enough to kill?
LAFORGE: Shall I have them brought in, sir?
PICARD: Not yet.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Malencon?
CRUSHER: I couldn't save him. The injuries were too severe, the damage too extensive.
RIKER: The entire Velara Three facility has been powered down, Captain.
WORF: We've just completed a remote power feed to the life support systems.
PICARD: Good. Data, I want you and Geordi to return for more careful inspection.
DATA: What are we to look for, sir?
PICARD: Evidence of tampering, negligence, sabotage, whatever. The answer's there, on the planet. Tasha, I want you to provide Counselor Troi and me with complete personnel records on our three guests. Psych profiles, training, everything. I'm looking for motive, intent, the psychological capacity to commit one murder and to attempt another.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: It seems we are becoming detectives, Number One.

[Hydraulics room]
LAFORGE: Not much left of this drill.
DATA: Geordi, I need some visual assistance.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is it? Nothing but basic elements. Inorganic. No carbon. Sandy texture. Those flashes are almost musical. I see color variations and rhythms in complex harmonies.
DATA: Speculation. Could it be alive?
LAFORGE: How could it be alive? It's inorganic.
DATA: Whatever it is, it could be what they are covering up, and the reason someone killed Malencon.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. On my order, Data's startling discovery of a possible life form has been beamed aboard so that its true nature might be uncovered. But unlike life on Earth and elsewhere, it appears to be completely inorganic.

[Medical lab]
CRUSHER: A test for inorganic life.
DATA: It's never been done, Doctor.
CRUSHER: There are basic definitions for organic life. Must have the ability to assimilate, respirate, reproduce, grow and develop, move, secrete and excrete.
PICARD: Would any of those apply here?
CRUSHER: Perhaps growth and development.
DATA: Reproduction?
CRUSHER: Yes. Those two may be basic for any definition of life, organic or inorganic.
PICARD: Well, Doctor, you're charging unknown seas. How do we proceed?
CRUSHER: As we're dealing with a fundamental question, let's use the basic scientific method. Observe, theorize and attempt to prove it. Activate. Let's be sure of what we're dealing with. Is the sample organic?
COMPUTER: Negative carbon. Negative known life components. Substance inorganic.
DATA: Recheck analysis, please.
COMPUTER: Rechecking. Analysis verified. Not organic.
CRUSHER: Magnify to screen. Factor five. Hold surface. Factor ten.
PICARD: What are we looking at?
WESLEY: It's really beautiful, whatever it is.
PICARD: What's that hum?
DATA: It started after Doctor Crusher ordered the scanner to magnify.
CRUSHER: Computer, de-magnify. Resume normal scan.
PICARD: Everyone stand back.
CRUSHER: Step back again)
CRUSHER: It's us.
PICARD: Yes, we're causing it. Why?
DATA: Unknown. But it is definitely reacting to our presence. Perhaps it is picking up the electrical impulse of our systems.
WESLEY: The flashes haven't changed. Could the hum be connected to the flashing?
CRUSHER: Computer, magnify. What is the magnification?
COMPUTER: Twenty five hundred diameters.
CRUSHER: Analyze the pattern of the flashes.
COMPUTER: Not repetitive or sequential. Pattern not recognized.
CRUSHER: What is the source of the flashes?
COMPUTER: Unable to specify. Theoretically not possible from this substance.
CRUSHER: Disregard incongruity and theorize as to source.
COMPUTER: Life.

[Ready room]
MANDL: What do you mean a life form?! What life form?! A Federation recon expedition certified Velara Three lifeless.
PICARD: Understandable, given this particular life form's novel nature.
MANDL: What is that nature?
PICARD: Doctor Crusher is still making her determination. Mister Mandl, you know the Prime Directive.
MANDL: Are you saying that I knowingly defied it?
PICARD: That's what I have to find out. You're a man obsessed with what you do. Who knows what an obsessed man will do to keep going? Kill, perhaps?
MANDL: I create life. I don't take it.
RIKER: You hit him pretty hard, Captain.
PICARD: What do you think, Counselor?
TROI: It was useful. I felt two levels. He did know about the life form, but the idea of murder seemed to shock him. Whether it was the whole idea, or just being accused of it, I can't tell.
PICARD: What about his file, Lieutenant Yar? Could he have accomplished the reprogramming that Data says took place?
TASHA: Mandl holds advanced degrees in computer science as well as artificial intelligence. It's possible.
PICARD: What about the others? Including the victim.
TASHA: Only the victim had the required expertise. Malencon did work where the whatever it is was found. Trying to suppress that knowledge would be motive for murder, if Mandl were obsessed enough.
TROI: Terraformers are often obsessive. It frequently goes with the career profile.
RIKER: How do you read the designer?
TROI: She's possessed of highly abstracted reality. Lovely visions, little data. You might do better than I.

[Luisa's quarters]
LUISA: It's not locked.
RIKER: Mind a visitor?
LUISA: Is it true? Did you really find a life form?
RIKER: The debate is still going on in some quarters, but I think so, yes.
LUISA: What's it like?
RIKER: We have nothing we can compare it with. It's microscopic. It seems colonial, simple. But it's inorganic. Which is why the recon scouts missed it. It was not your mistake.
LUISA: Everything I've worked so hard for is falling apart.
RIKER: Luisa, it's very beautiful. I could arrange for you to see it if you like.
LUISA: Perhaps later.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain, this is Doctor Crusher. I think you'd better come to the Medical Lab.

[Medical lab]
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi observed movement.
LAFORGE: Not movement exactly, but a definite shift in the energy pattern.
DATA: Without external influence.
PICARD: The hum has gone too. Why?
DATA: Unknown, sir. Perhaps it is scanning us.
PICARD: Scanning us? Why? What could it hope to learn?
DATA: Unknown at this time, sir.
LAFORGE: It's changing.
PICARD: I don't see anything.
LAFORGE: The infrared range is increasing.
COMPUTER: Warning. Input overload.
CRUSHER: The hum is back.
DATA: It is projecting an energy field.
LAFORGE: And it's intensifying!
COMPUTER: Magnification deactivated.
CRUSHER: Two of them!
DATA: Only life can replicate itself, Doctor. Inorganic or not, it is alive.
CRUSHER: Activate quarantine field. Quarantine field full. Full shield backup!
CRUSHER: Evacuating lab.
COMPUTER: Translation request being patched.
PICARD: Translation? From whom?
CRUSHER: Evacuate.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: What's wrong on with the translator circuit?
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. Request emergency power to initiate lab quarantine seal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Do it, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What's the nature of the problem, Captain? We've lost visual.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We have confirmed that Data's discovery is life. But more than that, it is intelligent life.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How do you know, sir?

[Corridor]
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The inorganic life form from Velara Three has apparently taken over our Medical Lab.

[Bridge]
WORF: It generates enough energy to interfere with the surrounding systems.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can we see into the lab yet?
LAFORGE: Negative, Captain. Reducing the backup to the quarantine seal might help.
PICARD: Doctor?
CRUSHER: I wouldn't.
PICARD: Continue quarantine.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
TASHA (voiceover): Director Mandl and the others are in the Observation Lounge as you requested.
PICARD: Counselor, I shall need you. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Director Mandl, I put it to you again. What do you know about these life forms?
MANDL: Not a thing.
PICARD: Enough! Sit down, Lieutenant. You are deliberately evasive and it must stop. You have kept information from me since our first communication. An alien life form has taken possession of my Medical Lab. You knew of its existence.
MANDL: Yes.
LUISA: Is this true? You knew there was life on Velara Three?
MANDL: I knew that there were random energy patterns, yes, I knew that. But not life. Not by any definition I have ever heard.
TROI: But you tried to keep that knowledge from us.
MANDL: No! They are meaningless silicon crystals, which rebroadcast sunlight.
PICARD: It is a life form and it has intelligence.
MANDL: Why do you say that?
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us.
MANDL: Communicate with you?
PICARD: When did you first become aware of them?
BENSEN: Tell them about the pattern in the sand.
PICARD: Oh, yes. Do tell us.
BENSEN: When we first arrived, we noticed that in certain areas the sand had a sparkling effect, like sunlight bouncing off new fallen snow.
PICARD: What did you think it was?
BENSEN: Honestly, we did not give it any thought.
MANDL: Picard, I must point out again that we were assured, not once but many times, by the best scientific minds in the Federation, that this planet has no life. No life! And we were not looking, and therefore we did not see.
PICARD: All right. At first you dismissed it. But then you began to understand that there was something that was different about them.
MANDL: You can't know that.
PICARD: Your apprehension suggested it, when we first arrived. Tell me about these patterns.
BENSEN: At first we thought it was just a natural phenomenon unique to Velara Three.
MANDL: Refraction and a thin atmosphere is interesting, but certainly not life.
LUISA: Why was I never told about this?
MANDL: Because it's not particularly important.
BENSEN: As the building of the terraforming station went forward, the patterns in the sand ceased being random and became very specific. Geometric shapes suddenly appearing, disappearing, changing location, changing size.
PICARD: Did you ever feel that these patterns were attempting to communicate?
MANDL: No, never.
PICARD: Bensen?
BENSEN: I don't know. At the time, I didn't think so. But now, after hearing what you just said. Now, I don't know.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we've regained magnification of the life form. It's divided again.
PICARD: Patch visual to Observation lounge.
MANDL: There was no indication of any of this on Velara Three.
BENSEN: Absolutely none.

[Bridge]
WORF: I cannot understand the patterns.
LAFORGE: Neither can I.
DATA: Please show me the spectral analysis magnification twelve K.
COMPUTER: Silicon. Germanium.
DATA: Transistor material.
COMPUTER: Gallium arsenide.
LAFORGE: Emits light when charged.
COMPUTER: Cadmium selenide sulfide.
DATA: Emits charge when lit.
COMPUTER: Water, impurities, sodium salts.
WORF: Conductor. But is it alive?!
COMPUTER: Probability positive.
WORF: I wasn't asking you.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker, go ahead.

[Engineering]
CREWWOMAN: The backup on the lab seal is fluctuating, sir. I think you should come down here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: On my way. Data, you've got the Bridge. Inform the Captain.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Status, Ensign?
CREWWOMAN: The quarantine seal is getting weaker. Every time I try to redirect backup it goes somewhere else. I think I've. No, it's locked three people in a turbolift and two more in the programmers' rest room.
RIKER: If that reading is right, there is no seal. Give me lab interior image.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Magnify.
RIKER: Picard, this is Riker.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We see it too, Number One.
PICARD: Get that seal back up.

[Engineering]
CREWWOMAN: Sir, no matter what I do, the energy goes somewhere else. What if it hits the Sickbay, or nursery?
RIKER: Hold off. Impossible, Captain.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER (voiceover): We haven't got the power.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The life form, which has significantly increased in size, is again attempting to communicate with us.

[Bridge]
DATA: The Universal Translator is coming on line, sir.
VOICE: Ugly, ugly giants bags of mostly water
PICARD: Bags of mostly water?
DATA: An accurate description of humans, sir. You are over ninety per cent water surrounded by a flexible container.
CRUSHER: Life force, do you understand us?
VOICE: We understand. We ask you that you be gone. We call. We talk. You not listen.
PICARD: We didn't hear you. We come in peace.
VOICE: Ugly bags of mostly water, we try at peace. You still do not listen. Bags who drill in sands of home have to die.
RIKER: It killed Malencon.
TROI: We see and hear you now. We didn't know you were there. You are beautiful to us. All life is beautiful.
VOICE: Bag in dome did know. Caused much death. Made us kill. War is now with you.
DATA: The translator is now offline, sir.
PICARD: Can you hear us now? Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Restabilizing, Captain.
DATA: Sir, that chaos when we were studying it in the lab must have been the energy surge of a reproductive cycle. It is now a colony of single cells which organize as a computer. And like any computer
PICARD: More is stronger.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have regained visual contact with the lab, but our attempts to restore communication with this microbrain, as we have come to call it, has been unsuccessful. One thing that is certain, however. This life form has declared war on us.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Their range of influence appears to be concentrated in the Medical Lab, Captain.
TASHA: All non-essential personnel have been moved to the most distant areas of the ship, sir.
PICARD: Data, any analysis of those bolts of light it emits?
DATA: That seems to be it's method of reprogramming, Captain. Each bolt of light consists of negatively and positively charged ions. A series of program instructions, as it were. It seems to have a quicker rapport with our computers than we have.
WORF: What do you expect? It is computer.
PICARD: Have we disabled the Medical Lab computer console?
RIKER: Aye, sir. As soon as Data determined the microbrain's method of operation.
LAFORGE: Captain, picking up a decrease in infra-red intensity.
WORF: Maybe the life-form has reached its energy level.
CRUSHER: Or maybe that's not the end of it. With single-celled life forms, at least organic ones, cell division is preceded by a resting state.
RIKER: The calm before the storm?
PICARD: Medical Lab on main viewer. Let's use this calm.
DATA: It does seem dormant, Captain.
PICARD: Tasha, set coordinates to beam it back where it came from.
TASHA: Coordinates set, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
LAFORGE: Transporter power being redirected, sir. We are unable to affect it.
PICARD: Life form or not, intelligent or not , the safety of this ship and everyone aboard her is my primary responsibility. Data, evacuate all the air from the Medical Lab. I want a vacuum there.
DATA: Environmental systems fail to respond to command, Captain. It appears the microbrain has successfully interfaced with our computers.

[Observation Lounge]
MANDL: Picard, if it did try to communicate with us, we didn't understand that.
PICARD: It has declared a state of war and we are on the defensive. We have no control over our Medical Lab nor our computer. At this moment it has the power to destroy this ship and everybody on it. I need your help.
MANDL: Unbelievable.
PICARD: It said you killed some of them. I need to know how.
MANDL: I don't know.
PICARD: What was Malencon doing when he was killed?
LUISA: There is a very thin layer of highly saline water under the sandy top soil. He was siphoning that off.
CRUSHER: Perhaps somehow that saline water sustained them.
DATA: It connected them.
LUISA: I don't understand.
CRUSHER: The microbrains may be like our own brain cells. Individually, a cell has life but not intelligence. Yet when interconnected, their combined intelligence is formidable.
DATA: The saline fluid is their circuitry, and to prevent its loss, they killed Malencon.
LUISA: If we had continued to remove that water, we would have destroyed them all.
PICARD: Reason enough for anyone to go to war.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, it's happening again. I think you'd better get in here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If this keeps up, it will tear up the Enterprise.
PICARD: What can you determine, Mister La Forge?
DATA: Captain, our sensors indicate that the microbrain expends a tremendous amount of energy during its reproductive cycle. Yet there is no discernible power drain on our own systems.
PICARD: Then what is feeding the damn thing?
LAFORGE: We found traces of cadmium salts. Now, cadmium is a conduit for converting infra-red into electricity.
PICARD: Meaning?
DATA: Meaning the microbrains might be photoelectric.
PICARD: Kill the lights in the medical lab, Mister La Forge. Let's see if darkness will neutralize it.
LAFORGE: Sorry, sir, it still has control of the computer. We can't do it by remote.
PICARD: Number One, light.
LUISA: The life form must have evolved at that narrow layer where the light got through the sand to the water. Drop the water a centimeter below the light penetration level, and they starve.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Killing lab lights now.

[Bridge]
TASHA: It's slowing down.
LAFORGE: It's getting dimmer, too.
VOICE: More light please.
PICARD: Only if you will talk to us.
VOICE: We die. Bags of water kill us. You are like others.
PICARD: We have no wish to kill you. We never have.
VOICE: You do not say truth.
PICARD: We will end this war, if you will end the war.
VOICE: Darkness. Death. Terrible. Must go home to wet sand. War over.
PICARD: Agreed. We will send you home to your wet sand. Picard to Riker. Bring up the lights in the lab, just a bit. Are you better?
VOICE: Better.
PICARD: We mean you no harm. Do you believe me?
VOICE: Yes.
PICARD: Good. It is important that you trust us.
VOICE: Not yet. You are still too arrogant. Too primitive. Come back three centuries. Perhaps then we trust.
PICARD: We understand what you are saying. We will leave you. We will send you home.

[Medical lab]
RIKER: Riker to Transporter Chief. Pick up the coordinates of the bell jar in the Medical Lab for return to Velara Three.
CHIEF (voiceover): Coordinates entered, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. Captain, we're ready to beam it back to the planet.

[Bridge]
DATA: I wish we were able to learn more about them, sir.
PICARD: In time, Mister Data. When we're better prepared.
MANDL: I wanted to create a place where living things could thrive, and all the while I was about to destroy the life that is there.
TROI: Our apologies.
PICARD: And respects. Lieutenant Yar.
TASHA: Co-ordinates set, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41464.8. I have declared an indefinite quarantine for Velara Three, and we are now returning to Starbase with the three surviving terraformers. Perhaps the lesson we have learned from this near tragedy will prevent it from happening elsewhere.

[Corridor]
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker, report to the Bridge.
RIKER: On the way.
BERNARD: Harry! Harry, come back here!
RIKER: What's your hurry, Harry?
HARRY: Sorry, Commander. I was just
BERNARD: Harry! I'm sorry if he bothered you.
RIKER: No bother, Doctor Bernard.
HARRY: I'm not going back. I hate that teacher and I hate calculus.
BERNARD: Everyone needs an understanding of basic calculus, whether they like it or not.
HARRY: Why?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: You're limping.
RIKER: Had a small run-in with an aspiring sprinter.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Problem, Captain?
PICARD: No, more a curiosity. For the past few hours we've been tracking faint energy readings in an attempt to locate the source. It's like following a trail of bread crumbs. The pathfinder lead here and stopped, which is what I knew would interest you.
RIKER: What's our position, Geordi?
LAFORGE: The Epsilon Mynos system, sir.
RIKER: Thank you, Captain, you're right. I wouldn't miss this for anything.
TASHA: What's so interesting about this system?
RIKER: Aldea. Tasha, I'm surprised you haven't heard the stories about Aldea, the wondrous mythical world. Like Atlantis of ancient Earth or Neinman of Xerxes Seven. Advanced culture, centuries old. Self-contained, peaceful. Incredible technical sophistication providing the daily needs for all the citizens, so that they could turn themselves over to art and culture.
TASHA: Where is it supposed to be?
RIKER: That's the myth. Somehow, as the legend goes, the Aldeans were able to cloak their planet in darkness and go unseen by marauders, and other hostile passers-by who might rob and plunder.
TASHA: What a wonderful fairy tale.
DATA: Scanners still show nothing, sir.
TROI: Scanners may show nothing, sir, but I'm sensing something very strong. Thousands of minds.
PICARD: From where?
TROI: Very close.
PICARD: All stop, and hold this position.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. All stop, and hold.
PICARD: Anything?
WORF: Captain, I'm recording a distortion in quadrant one, mark nine zero.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Shields and deflectors up.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's Aldea, Captain. It has to be.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41509.1. Either by chance or intent, we've been led to the planet Aldea, which appeared out of nowhere, hidden behind a sophisticated shielding device.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors indicate that the shield is electromagnetic, a complicated light refracting mechanism.
PICARD: A cloaking device?
DATA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: It's got to be pretty sophisticated to hide an entire planet .
WORF: We're being scanned, sir.
PICARD: We'll let them know our peaceful intention. Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant Yar.
TASHA: Frequencies open, sir.
RASHELLA (screen): I am Rashella. Welcome to Aldea.
PICARD: I am Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the USS Enterprise. We come in peace.
RASHELLA (screen): We know.
PICARD: We've heard the stories about Aldea, but frankly I never believed they could be true.
RASHELLA (screen): Our shield has confused outsiders for millennia, Captain.
PICARD: That's a very long time to have such technology. Why do you reveal yourselves to us now?
RASHELLA (screen): We're eager to meet in person to discuss that, and other subjects of mutual interest.
PICARD: We're ready anytime.
RASHELLA (screen): Excellent!
RADUE: We mean no harm.
RASHELLA: Our arrival seems to have startled you.
PICARD: It was a little sudden.
RADUE: I'm Radue, First Appointee to Aldea.
PICARD: Welcome aboard.
CRUSHER: Captain, they haven't been through decontamination.
PICARD: Our medical doctor is concerned that you didn't go through the regular transporting procedure.
RASHELLA: You couldn't transport us. The only way through our shield is our way, Captain. Our cloaking device may be off, but our shield is operating. We've brought you small tokens of welcome.
RADUE: And a personal invitation to a celebration on Aldea.
PICARD: That would be delightful. Number One, assemble the away team.
RADUE: We will prepare for your arrival, Commander Riker.
RIKER: How do you know
RADUE: Your name? We've been monitoring your ship's communications. We must return now to Aldea. Our eyes are very sensitive to bright light. Rashella.
PICARD: Amazing. To exist only in that dreamworld of mythology and then suddenly to be here, right in front of us.
RIKER: Now we know who placed the bread crumbs. We're not here by accident.
PICARD: Counselor, do you sense anything?
TROI: They want something from us, something we value greatly. So much, that they're afraid we won't part with it.
RADUE (voiceover): We are ready to receive you, Commander Riker, and two of your colleagues?
PICARD: Interesting choices.

[First Unit]
RADUE: I hope Duana and I know how to greet you properly, Commander.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: How do they cloak the planet?
DATA: The theory is simple. The shield bends light rays around the planet's contour, similar to the Romulan cloaking device. But the implementation is quite difficult.
WORF: Captain!
PICARD: Data, what do you read?
DATA: Some sort of scanning device, sir.
PICARD: Don't touch him!
LAFORGE: This beam is emanating from Aldea.
PICARD: Shields up. La Forge, contact Commander Riker. Worf, check all decks.
TASHA: Shields inoperable, sir.
DATA: All decks being probed in a methodical pattern, sir.
PICARD: All decks? Everything? The entire ship?
DATA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I can't reach the Commander. We're being blocked.
PICARD: Wesley, are you all right?
WESLEY: It was scary at first, but I really didn't feel anything.
WORF: Sir, similar incidents all decks, but only with the children.

[First Unit]
RADUE: Yes, we are an ancient power, Commander, but we've suffered for it. Our history is littered with the deaths of those Aldeans who wanted more and more things. Nothing was ever enough. So we've evolved a very simple way of living. For whatever is taken, something is given in return.
RIKER: It seems an equitable code.
RADUE: It's brought us peace. Unfortunately, there are very few of us left to enjoy it.
TROI: Why?
RADUE: That is part of what we wish to discuss. We need help from the Federation to rebuild our heritage. We need a younger generation, strong and healthy, following in the Aldean traditions.
RIKER: I don't understand. How can the Federation help influence your children in your traditions?
RADUE: Because we have no children, Commander. Rashella was the last child born on this planet.
CRUSHER: And your medical community can do nothing?
RASHELLA: They've tried, Doctor Crusher. And failed.
CRUSHER: Perhaps we can help.
RIKER: Radue, exactly why were we invited here?
RADUE: We propose a trade. One which will solve our problem and give something back to the Federation.
RIKER: And the nature of this trade?
RADUE: We need some of your children. In payment, we will give you information that would take you centuries to acquire.
TROI: That might be acceptable to some other races, but humans are unusually attached to their offspring.
CRUSHER: Our children are not for sale at any price.
RIKER: We sympathize with your situation, but what you ask is not possible.
RADUE: And that's your final answer?
RIKER: That's my only answer. Now if there's some other way we can help you.
RADUE: I am sorry you are intransigent.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Still no response, sir.
CRUSHER: Wesley! They've taken my son.
WORF: Captain, Saucer Section reports six more children are gone.
RIKER: It's the children. That's why we've been brought here. That's what they wanted.
PICARD: And that's what they have. Status.
TASHA: Aldean shield still up. Hailing frequencies open. No response.
PICARD: Keep trying. Counselor, you'll have to gather the parents.
TROI: They'll need to speak to you as well, Captain.
RADUE (screen): Captain, your children are with us. My word of honor, no harm will ever come to them.
PICARD: Harm has already come to them.
RADUE (screen): Captain, let us begin discussions regarding appropriate compensation.
PICARD: Compensation? You have stolen our children away from their classrooms, away from their bedrooms and you talk about compensation? You claim to be a civilized world and yet you have just committed an act of utter barbarity!
RADUE (screen): Captain, we will continue these discussions when you've calmed down.

[First Unit]
KATIE: Wesley, I'm frightened.
WESLEY: I know you are, Katie. We all are. But we're going to be all right. Everyone knows where we are, and no one is going to hurt you. I promise.
RADUE: Greetings, Wesley Crusher. The Custodian indicated that you would be the leader.
WESLEY: The Custodian? Who is the Custodian?
RADUE: The Custodian is not a person.
RASHELLA: You have been brought to Aldea as our guests. We'll provide anything you need or want.
WESLEY: We want to go home.
RADUE: Wesley, all of you have been chosen because you are special. Just ask for anything you want, and you shall have it.

[Observation lounge]
TOYA: What's happened to Alexandra and the other children, Captain? How are you getting them back?
CRUSHER: Toya, sit down. Don't give in to fear. Now, we all knew what the risks were when we signed on, and that's the choice we made. Now, Captain Picard will do everything possible to bring our children back.
PICARD: The Aldeans are anxious to discuss compensation.
BERNARD: Compensation?
PICARD: That will buy us time. I've asked Doctor Crusher to be involved in the negotiations as your representative.
BERNARD: Why were these specific children taken?
TROI: We can't be sure. We do know the Aldeans can't have children of their own.
BERNARD: Then they won't let them go easily.
PICARD: I won't insult you by pretending that any of this will be easy. But I can tell you that the Enterprise will not leave them behind. You can be assured of that.
BERNARD: Can we talk with our children? Give them some reassurance. Let them know that we are here, and that they will be safe.
PICARD: I'll do my best to arrange that.
BERNARD: The last time I saw him, I yelled at him.

[Rashella's room]
RASHELLA: There you are! I have you now!

[First Unit]
RADUE: Come in. Don't be alarmed. The other children have been assigned to their units.
WESLEY: Units?
RADUE: A unit is a group where those of similar talents and interests live together.
WESLEY: Do you mean like a family.
RADUE: Yes, you could call it that.
WESLEY: We already have families. Does Captain Picard know you're doing this?
RADUE: We are keeping nothing from him.
LEDA: We have been waiting for you so long, Harry. We are artists, just like you. We see within you the potential of what you can be.
HARRY: I'm not an artist.
ACCOLAN: You will be. And a great one.
LEDA: This way. Unit B, three seven five.
RADUE: Katie.
MELIAN: I am honored.
KATIE: Thank you.
RADUE: Melian is the foremost musician on Aldea.
MELIAN: Music speaks its own language. I know we'll have much to learn from each other. Don't worry, Katie, you'll be seeing Wesley soon.
WESLEY: What about me? Don't I get a say in this?
RADUE: Wesley, sometimes something happens which you just must accept. You and the other children are now members of this society. That will not change. It is up to you to make the transition as easy as possible for the others. It's your duty, because you are their leader. Help them to accept it because nothing you, or those on the starship can do will change it. Because like you, we also have no choice.
RADUE: Where have you been Rashella? Zena and Aran are waiting to take Alexandra.
RASHELLA: No.
RADUE: No? I told you that she
RASHELLA: No, Radue. They can't have her. I will never let her go.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any response from Aldea, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Not yet, sir.
RIKER: Captain, Data has found something interesting. The Aldean shield gives evidence of random fluctuations, weakening its structure in isolated sections.
PICARD: You're saying there are holes in their defense system?
RIKER: In essence, yes. I find it surprising after all these eons that the Aldeans' have not perfected their technology. One would assume they would be aware of the weakness and repair it.
PICARD: Can we beam down an away team through one of those holes?
RIKER: It's a possibility. It would have to be perfectly timed, and there's no guarantee.
DATA: We may be more successful in deciphering the code they use to transport through the magnetic shield.
PICARD: Can you do that?
DATA: Eventually, sir. I am working on it now but the number of permutations is almost endless.
PICARD: Keep trying. While he's doing that, Number One, I want you and La Forge to try and find some way of getting through one of those holes, because one way or the other we have got to get an away team on the planet, locate the power source for the shield and neutralize it.
RIKER: You're certain they'll negotiate?
PICARD: Oh, they'll negotiate, or they'll call it that. They've taken what they want. Now they'll rationalize it by throwing us some sort of bone.
RIKER: And when we don't accept their offer?
PICARD: The minute they believe that we won't accept their compensation for the children, they'll break off the discussion, they'll disappear behind their shield, locking us out and the children in forever. That's why I've got to keep them talking.

[Custodian room]
DUANA: Custodian, Wesley Crusher's voice will be entered into the authorized file for Third Level clearance.
CUSTODIAN: Proceed, Duana.
DUANA: Announce yourself to the Custodian.
WESLEY: Hello, Custodian. I am Wesley Crusher.
CUSTODIAN: Hello, Wesley. Your voice will now activate Third Level clearance.
WESLEY: What does that mean?
CUSTODIAN: You may ask any questions you wish.
WESLEY: Thank you. Duana, what does the Custodian do?
DUANA: It frees us from all burden. It takes care of all our needs. It regulates our lives.
WESLEY: Who built it?
DUANA: The Progenitors.
WESLEY: When?
DUANA: Oh, hundreds of centuries ago.
WESLEY: What is its power source?
DUANA: Wesley, why is that important? It does what we ask it. It always has. What difference does it make how it works?
WESLEY: If you don't know how it works, then how can you repair it?
DUANA: Why would we want to repair it?
WESLEY: From time to time, every computer, I mean Custodian, requires maintenance.
DUANA: Wesley, Radue is right. You ask questions I can't answer. Ask the Custodian instead.
WESLEY: Custodian, can you show me where Harry is?
CUSTODIAN: Yes.
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Harry.
HARRY (screen): I never did this before. It's fun.
WESLEY: You are going to make him into a sculptor?
DUANA: He already is. He was just never encouraged properly. The tool Leda is giving him will allow him to bring out his visions.
WESLEY: It will take him years to learn to do that.
DUANA: Oh, no. It will happen quite quickly.
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Alexandra.
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Mason.
DUANA: Stop, Custodian. We must work now. There is much to learn.
WESLEY: What's in there? The power source?
DUANA: I don't know. It's forbidden.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit around Aldea. It's becoming all too evident that talk will not effect the return of our children. We must neutralize the Aldean shield. Until then, we are helpless.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Sir, Radue is hailing us.
RADUE (screen): Captain Picard?
PICARD: Doctor Crusher and I are ready, Radue.
RADUE (screen): Are you ill, Captain?
PICARD: No. Doctor Crusher is a Staff Officer, Radue. Starfleet Regulation six point five seven requires that at least two Staff Officers are present during any treaty or contract negotiations.
RADUE (screen): Very well.
RIKER: Not much on pleasantries, is he?
DATA: I am not aware of Regulation six point five seven.
PICARD: No, Data. Neither am I.
DATA: I see, sir. Oh, I see, sir.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge. Now, we'll see what they have in mind.

[First Unit]
PICARD: Before we begin, we want to see the children.
RADUE: No. We're here to negotiate appropriate compensation, not to pander to emotions. Please sit.
PICARD: We do not condone your actions. You're attempting to salve your conscience by offering goods in exchange for our children.
RADUE: Why do you want them back so badly? You can always have more.
PICARD: You are trifling with the primal instincts of our species. I must warn you that human parents are quite willing to die for their children.
RADUE: Returning the children is non-negotiable.
RASHELLA: I promise you, they'll have a beautiful life with us. And they'll be father and mother to a new breed born of an ancient culture.
CRUSHER: But how can you be so sure that they can have children? You can't.
RADUE: But they will. Our inability to bear children is a genetic dysfunction. It's not contagious.
PICARD: We sympathize with your situation. Surely there is a solution which can be mutually satisfactory?
RADUE: For us, the problem is solved. And we're offering you information on areas of the galaxy you do not even know exist. What more can we offer? What more would you like?
PICARD: A significant beginning. But first, I must ask that Doctor Crusher be allowed to see her son before we continue.
RADUE: You are a stubborn people. Ah, well, that too can be a positive trait. You may see him.

[Wesley's room]
WESLEY: Mom!
CRUSHER: Wes.
WESLEY: I knew Captain Picard would get us home.
CRUSHER: Not yet, Wes.
WESLEY: Oh.
CRUSHER: Are you okay? And the others?
WESLEY: Okay, really okay. We've been assigned to our units, like families. They're treating us like gods.
CRUSHER: Don't let it go to your head.
WESLEY: I won't.

[First Unit]
CRUSHER: Wes seems fine. He says the other children are too.
RASHELLA: Of course they're well.
RADUE: Captain Picard, you have our offer. It is final. Rashella.

[Bridge]
RADUE (screen): Captain, we want you to understand the nature of your choice. A small demonstration of our power.
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: I believe it was a repulsor beam.
PICARD: Position report.
LAFORGE: This is unbelievable, sir. According to my calculations, we're three days from Aldea. At warp nine.
RIKER: And they call that a small demonstration?
PICARD: Geordi, get us back to Aldea. Warp nine.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RADUE (screen): Captain, if you don't accept our terms, the Enterprise will be pushed so far away that by the time you return, your children will be grandparents.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41512.4. We are twenty hours away from Aldea, and no closer to a solution. Their deliberate show of force pushed us out of orbit and could have easily disintegrated the ship.

[Music Unit]
MELIAN: Now, hold it a little bit more firmly. That's it. Perfect. Now think. No, think's not right. Feel the notes inside your head.
KATIE: I'm sorry. Did I break it?
MELIAN: No, it's all right. You can't break this.
KATIE: It did exactly what I thought. I mean, felt.
MELIAN: Yes, it's a direct expression of the music within. Now we just have to teach you to structure that feeling. Try it again.
MELIAN: That was beautiful. Now, play something happier.
KATIE: That's not the way I feel. I don't want to do this any more.

[Artist's Unit]
ACCOLAN: You see, Harry, I told you you were going to be an artist.
HARRY: Are you sure? Did I really do this?
ACCOLAN: Oh, yes. Your talent has always been there. The sculpting tool is just helping you develop it. It's what you were meant to do.
HARRY: You mean I don't have to take calculus anymore?
ACCOLAN: You don't have to do anything you don't want to do. What's calculus?
HARRY: Nothing important. Can I do some more?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It has been three days since the Aldeans pushed us away. We have had no contact with Radue since then.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant Yar.
TASHA: Frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Radue, this is Picard.
RADUE (screen): Welcome back, Captain. What have you decided?
PICARD: That there is room for discussion, Radue.
RADUE (screen): We will bring you down when we are ready.
PICARD: Data, find a way to defeat that shield.
DATA: That may be impossible, sir.
PICARD: Things are only impossible until they're not.
DATA: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: Captain. Here's what I've learned so far. Duana is dying. I have no reason to believe the rest of the Aldeans are any healthier. They're suffering from some kind of chromosomal damage. It could be genetic or environmental.
PICARD: And is that why they can't conceive?
CRUSHER: Yes. It also explains their lack of appetite, extreme pallor and sensitivity to light.
PICARD: An entire civilization that's terminally ill. Is it reversible?
CRUSHER: I won't know until I find the cause. And you don't need to tell me time is running out.
PICARD: Good work, Doctor.

[Artist's Unit]
ACCOLAN: Have the lesions gone?
LEDA: Yes. The medicine worked again.
ACCOLAN: Good. Come see what Harry's doing. Beautiful!
HARRY: Yeah, it really turned out well.
ACCOLAN: It is so alive and graceful. What do you call it?
HARRY: It's a dolphin.
LEDA: Dolphin?
HARRY: You know, it swims in the ocean. Like a fish, only it's not a fish.
LEDA: Ah. A fish. We used to have them in our oceans. I've never seen one before.
HARRY: I used to live near the ocean on Zadar Four. My dad's an oceanographer. He says that. Never mind. It doesn't matter.

[Rashella's room]
ALEXANDRA: I want Mommy. I want Mommy.

[First Unit]
DUANA: You haven't eaten.
WESLEY: You didn't eat anything.
RADUE: We need very little.
DUANA: I know you miss your family. But you will grow accustomed to us. I promise you'll be happy.
WESLEY: We were happy before we came.
DUANA: We are offering more, especially for you.
WESLEY: Duana, I feel badly for you that you have no children, but I have to tell you that we don't want to be here and we will not cooperate.

[Doctor's office]
CRUSHER: No. That doesn't fit the pattern. Give me a list of the appropriate medical literature from the twenty-second century. There's not enough time!
PICARD: Is there anything I can do?
CRUSHER: You just did, Jean-Luc. Now I have to get back to work.

[Wesley's room]
WESLEY: Custodian's room.

[Custodian room]
WESLEY: Custodian, this is Wesley Crusher.
CUSTODIAN: Proceed, Wesley.
WESLEY: Show me where the Enterprise children are in relation to this room. Thank you. Goodnight.
CUSTODIAN: Good night, Wesley.

[Katie's room]
WESLEY: I think I know a way to get us home. I need your help. Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 41512.9. I've begun to suspect that whatever is killing the Aldeans is related to a danger faced by Earth in the twenty first century. Can it be that Aldea's ozone layer has been weakened?

[Wesley's room]
KATIE: Why will not talking or eating make them send us home?
WESLEY: It's called passive resistance. We don't do what they want us to do and then they won't want us.
KATIE: Will they get mad at us?
WESLEY: They won't hurt us.
HARRY: But, Wes, I do kind of like them.
WESLEY: So do I, but I don't want to stay here forever. Do you?
HARRY: No, but I like working with the wood.
WESLEY: Harry, we all have to be in this together or it's not going to work.
HARRY: Okay. I'll do it.
RASHELLA: What are you all doing here together?
RASHELLA: What is going on here?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I've got it, Captain. The Aldeans are suffering from a form of radiation poisoning.
PICARD: Is that what made the Aldeans sterile?
CRUSHER: Yes.
PICARD: Is it reversible?
CRUSHER: With the proper treatment, yes.
DATA: Captain.
CRUSHER: Sir.
DATA: These permutations are going to take a very long time.
PICARD: How long?
DATA: Weeks.
RIKER: There is the option.
LAFORGE: We were able to further define the weakness in their shield. Now, it's not a hole as much as it is a fluctuation.
RIKER: If the timing is precise, it's possible to beam through and onto the planet.
PICARD: Why don't we just beam the children up through the hole?
RIKER: The timing would be more difficult, and the risk greater.
PICARD: All right. You and Data beam down. Locate the power source of that shield. Knock it out. I'll delay the Aldeans until you're ready.

[Wesley's room]
LEDA: Will you at least eat?
WESLEY: No, Alexandra.
ALEXANDRA: Why?
WESLEY: We can't eat. I know you're hungry. We all are. But it's our way of telling them that we want to go home. Understand?
ALEXANDRA: Yes.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We're ready, Lieutenant Worf.

[Bridge]
RADUE (screen): Captain, you may come down now to conclude our discussions, or your ship may leave. It's your choice.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher and I are prepared to conclude our negotiations.
WORF: Transporter room, now!

[Custodian room]
DATA: This is it, Commander. It is programmed to accept only authorized voice command.
RIKER: There's no way we can override.
DATA: No, but I can scramble the input so that nobody else can.

[First Unit]
RADUE: Before we begin, Captain, you must speak with the children. It seems they are on some sort of strike. I don't understand it. You must deal with this, Captain. I'm not very good with children.
PICARD: Strike? I'll see what I can do.

[Wesley's room]
WESLEY: I'm sure if we just stick together, guys, we'll all be
KATIE: Hi, Captain Picard.
HARRY: Hi, Captain.
WESLEY: Sir, I knew you'd come.
PICARD: It's not over yet, Wesley.
WESLEY: I think I figured out their computer controls, sir, but I'm not sure. It's a much different system than ours.
PICARD: Good, Wesley. Now
HARRY: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Harry.
HARRY: If something happens and you have to leave us here, will you tell my Dad that I'm sorry that I made him angry, and that I miss him.
PICARD: You will tell him that, Harry, and I will tell him how much I admire his son. Hello, Alexandra.
ALEXANDRA: Hi.

[First Unit]
RADUE: What is this?
PICARD: They want to go home.
RADUE: No. They're staying.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): We're in position.
PICARD: Hold for orders.
CRUSHER: The radiation levels on Aldea have been building up over a long period of time. It is similar to what was experienced on Earth in the twenty-first century. When the ozone layer had deteriorated and the surface of the planet was flooded with ultraviolet radiation.
PICARD: The shield that protected your world in one way is weakening it in another. It is the radiation of your own sun that is destroying you.
RADUE: You're trying to confuse the issue.
CRUSHER: Please, listen. You're all suffering from radiation poisoning. Sterility is only the latest symptom. If the children remain, they will be affected as well.
RADUE: It's impossible. Our scientists would have known.
CRUSHER: How could they? Your scientists have forgotten how everything works.
RADUE: No. All lies.
RASHELLA: No. Wait. Don't send them back yet. What if they're right? Instead of the children being our hope, what if we're just condemning them to our fate?
RADUE: Rashella, they're just protecting their own interests.
RASHELLA: As are we. But hear them out. The Captain and Doctor Crusher are saying that the very thing which has given us this wonderful world is what has caused this tragedy.
PICARD: That's it, exactly. Your Custodian has controlled you so completely you've lost even the desire to even question it.
RADUE: Lies, and the discussion is over.
PICARD: Commander Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Here, sir.
PICARD: I assume you have control of the computer.
RIKER (voiceover): We've disabled the system temporarily.

[Custodian room]
RIKER: We found the power source to the shield and we've neutralized it.

[First Unit]
PICARD: Good. Enterprise, this is Picard. Beam the children up.
HARRY: Wait.
PICARD: Enterprise, hold.
HARRY: Thank you.
ACCOLAN: Let me get the dolphin for you to take with you.
HARRY: No, you keep it. I'll make another one.
PICARD: All right, Harry?
HARRY: Yes, Captain.
WESLEY: Okay, kids. Let's go home.
PICARD: Beam them up.
RADUE: You have destroyed us.
PICARD: We are not here to destroy you, Radue. We can help you.

[Power room]
RADUE: What is it?
PICARD: A legacy of your Progenitors, Radue. The source of your power and of your problems.
DATA: It is reading incredible amounts of energy, sir. Even more since we have taken down the shield.
RASHELLA: What are we going to do with it?
RADUE: Learn, all over again. All this time we've been destroying ourselves, so sure of our technological invulnerability. Now we must learn to use this power safely.
PICARD: Will you let us help you?
RADUE: Yes. Please.

[Corridor]
HARRY: Dad, I want to be an artist, but I don't want to take calculus anymore.
BERNARD: You can be anything you want, Harry. Anything. But you still have to take calculus.
HARRY: Okay. Thanks, Dad.

[Bridge]
DATA: It worked well, sir. We have successfully reseeded the ozone layer. But for their atmosphere to maintain it's integrity, they can never use the shield.
RIKER: Or be cloaked again.
PICARD: Are you finished?
CRUSHER: Yes, Captain, and they're responding very well to the treatment.
PICARD: The legend will die, but the people will live.
TROI: And we know they'll make good parents.
PICARD: Wesley!
WESLEY: Sorry, Captain. She just wanted to thank you for bringing her home to her mother.
ALEXANDRA: Thank you.
WESLEY: Come on.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, out of orbit. Warp five.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Certainly, sir.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Jake! Jake! Jake, wait a second. How're you doing?
JAKE: I'm fine. Really.
WESLEY: Jake, I'm sorry.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Acting Ensign Crusher, report to transporter room eight.
JAKE: It's not your fault.
WESLEY: Yeah, I know. I wish both of us were going.
JAKE: I don't know. Only thirty two points.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Mister Crusher, respond.
WESLEY: I'm on my way, Doctor. I've got to go.
JAKE: I know. Hey, Wes. Do well for both of us, okay?
WESLEY: All right.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41416.2. We're orbiting Relva Seven, where Wesley Crusher is about to be tested for entrance into Starfleet Academy. And to my great surprise, I have just learned that my old friend Admiral Gregory Quinn is on Relva Seven, and has requested to be beamed aboard the Enterprise immediately.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Admiral.
QUINN: Thank you. Captain Jean Luc Picard, Lieutenant Commander Dexter Remmick.
REMMICK: Sir.
PICARD: Allow me to introduce my staff. First Officer William Riker, Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher, Chief of Security, Natasha Yar. Well, what can we do for you?
QUINN: I need to speak with you.
PICARD: Certainly. This way. Number One?
QUINN: Alone.
PICARD: Is this a personal matter?
QUINN: Official business.
PICARD: Well then my First Officer
QUINN: Alone, Captain.

[Ready room]
QUINN: Commander Remmick is with the Inspector General's office.
PICARD: Oh?
QUINN: He'll be conducting a full investigation of the Enterprise.
PICARD: What are you looking for?
QUINN: I have reason to believe there may be something very wrong on this ship.
PICARD: Tell me what you suspect.
QUINN: It's inappropriate to discuss it at this time. Mister Remmick, Starfleet is counting on you. You will find out what is wrong on this ship.
REMMICK: Yes, sir. Nothing and no one will stand in my way.
QUINN: And you, Captain, are ordered to cooperate in every way necessary with this investigation. Is that clear?
PICARD: Yes, sir.
QUINN: Mister Remmick, unless there are any further questions.
REMMICK: No questions, sir.
QUINN: Get on with your duties.
REMMICK: Yes, sir.
PICARD: We've known one another for years. Tell me what you believe is wrong.
QUINN: Captain, it is vitally important that my orders be followed exactly. I'll be staying on the ship.
PICARD: As you wish, Admiral.

[Classroom]
OLIANA: What is it?
WESLEY: What?
OLIANA: The unit you just put down. Don't worry. I won't tell anyone.
WESLEY: It's a flux coordinating sensor.
OLIANA: I'm Oliana Mirren, one of the other finalists. You must be Wesley Crusher.
WESLEY: Yeah. Do you know me?
OLIANA: I heard there was a very smart, very young man who'd be tough competition.
WESLEY: Well, you wouldn't be here
OLIANA: I weren't smart. I know. But there's a lot more to it than just that. You're lucky. You've had practical experience aboard the Enterprise.
T'SHANIK: Oliana. T'Shanik of Vulcana Regar.
WESLEY: Wesley Crusher of the Enterprise.
T'SHANIK: You do not look as if you meet the age requirements.
WESLEY: Uh, I'll be sixteen next month.
OLIANA: Happy birthday.
WESLEY: Excuse me. I'm Wesley Crusher.
MORDOCK: Mordock.
WESLEY: Mordock? The Mordock? The Benzite who constructed the Mordock Strategy? I thought you already were in the Academy.
MORDOCK: No. Only a hopeful, like you.
CHANG: Finalists, please take your seats I'm Tac Officer Chang. Welcome. You are here because you are all top candidates. Although only one student will be chosen for the Academy, you have shown from the preliminary testing that any of you could easily qualify. This may be the most difficult, exhausting experience of your life, and the most exciting challenge. Expect the unexpected. May you all do your best.

[Bridge]
DATA: May I help you, Mister Remmick?
REMMICK: Keep on doing whatever it is you're doing, Commander Data.
LAFORGE: There's nothing much to see here, Commander. We're in a standard orbit, and the station has to be manned even if it's just routine.
RIKER: Something I can help you with, Mister Remmick?
REMMICK: When I'm ready, Mister Riker, I'll want to speak with you. Privately.
LAFORGE: Commander, just having that guy around makes me feel guilty. What's he after, anyway?
RIKER: I don't know, Geordi, but I'm going to find out. Right now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak frankly?
PICARD: Always, Number One.
RIKER: As First Officer, I should be informed. I should know everything that you know.
PICARD: That's right, you should.
RIKER: Then what's this about? Remmick is going to turn this ship upside down.
PICARD: That's his job.
RIKER: And my job is to see that this ship runs smoothly.
PICARD: Which you do very well.
RIKER: Sir, am I under investigation?
PICARD: I don't know.
RIKER: And if you did?
PICARD: I couldn't tell you.
RIKER: I don't understand, sir. This is extremely frustrating.
PICARD: No less so for me. But I promised cooperation, and that's what we shall give.
RIKER: Sir.

[Bridge]
REMMICK: I want some answers from you now, Commander Riker.
RIKER: Later.
REMMICK: You were ordered to cooperate
RIKER: Not now. When it doesn't interfere with my duties, Remmick.

[Classroom]
COMPUTER: Last question on the hyperspace physics test. If the matter and antimatter tanks on a Galaxy class starship are nine tenths depleted, calculate the intermix ratio necessary to reach a starbase a hundred light years away at warp factor eight. Begin.
COMPUTER: Time elapsed. You now have one hour free before the next test.
MORDOCK: I must admit, Wesley, you have a very fast mind.
WESLEY: Once as I realized it was a trick question, there was only one answer.
MORDOCK: Yes, there is only one ratio with matter antimatter. One to one.
OLIANA: You don't know how lucky you are. I can't imagine what it would be like to have things come so easily. I have to push every step of the way.
WESLEY: Oh, no, Oliana, it doesn't come that easily. I have to study all the time.
OLIANA: It's a good thing you're cute, Wesley, or you could really be obnoxious. See you later.
WESLEY: Did you hear what she said, Mordock? She said I was cute.
MORDOCK: Is that good, Wesley?
WESLEY: Yes! I think.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I think I should apologize, Captain.
PICARD: No need, Number One. Mister Remmick's presence is unnerving, to say the least.
REMMICK: Are you available now, Mister Riker? Or do you still have duties to perform?
RIKER: I'm available, Mister Remmick.
REMMICK: Any problem with using your Ready room, Captain?
PICARD: No, Mister Remmick. Be my guest.

[Ready room]
REMMICK: If you prefer to stand, fine, Mister Riker. It won't have an effect on the length of my inquiry. Now, there are several seeming discrepancies in the
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log. Let's go over them one by one, shall we?
RIKER: The
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log?
REMMICK: Yes. To the best of your knowledge, has the Captain ever falsified a log?
RIKER: Have you discussed this with him?
REMMICK: Right now, I'm asking you.
RIKER: If you want to discuss anything about Captain Picard, you bring him in here and ask him face to face.
REMMICK: You are required to answer my questions, Mister Riker, unless you're trying to cover something up! Now, there are several discrepancies in the
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log. Shall we go over them one by one?
RIKER: Proceed.

[Engineering]
REMMICK: So, you are saying Captain Picard had no control over this vessel. He handed it over to Kosinski, who took the entire crew to the edge of the universe.
LAFORGE: No, sir. That's not what I'm saying. Now, Kosinski was sent by Starfleet to improve our warp drive system. Captain Picard was ordered to take him aboard.
REMMICK: According to his own logs, his Bridge crew didn't think highly of Mister Kosinski's theories, yet the Captain allowed him to access to the engines anyway. Is that true, La Forge?
LAFORGE: Not exactly, sir.
REMMICK: One way or the other, La Forge, Picard lost control of this ship. Is that true?
LAFORGE: Yes, but that's not how it happened.
REMMICK: So, the answer is yes.

[Ready room]
REMMICK: Do you believe the captain is emotionally and psychologically fit for command of this starship? There is nothing in his history or his personality that would suggest mental lapses?
TROI: Nothing.
REMMICK: Not even the Ferengi incident with his old ship, the Stargazer?
TROI: He was being controlled by a mind altering machine, Commander. Without his knowledge.
REMMICK: I would call that a mental lapse.

[Holodeck]
WORF: Ensign, what are you doing on the holodeck? I thought you were still on Relva Seven.
WESLEY: I'm finished testing for the day.
WORF: I've disturbed you. I'll leave.
WESLEY: Wait. I thought I wanted to be alone, but I guess I don't.
WORF: How is the testing?
WESLEY: Okay. So far. It's not the ones that I've studied for that I'm worried about. It's the psych test. Facing my deepest fear and living through it. I'm trying to figure out what images to bring up.
WORF: Why?
WESLEY: I guess I want to scare myself. What do you think? Bulgallian rats? Lightning storms?
WORF: Do those things frighten you?
WESLEY: Sort of, I guess.
WORF: The psych test is no more or less important than the rest of the process.
WESLEY: That's what they said, but I can't stop thinking about it.
WORF: Thinking about what you can't control only wastes your energy and creates its own enemy.
WESLEY: How can they know what my deepest fear is when I don't?
WORF: By analyzing your psychological profile. They were very accurate about everyone I tested with. Including myself.
WESLEY: You? I thought there was nothing that could frighten a Klingon warrior.
WORF: Only fools have no fear.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, Lieutenant. I'm asking too many personal questions.
WORF: It is very difficult for me to depend on anyone for anything. But especially for my life.
WESLEY: But on the Enterprise you do that every day. Everyone depends on everyone else to protect them.
WORF: Yes.
WESLEY: So you overcame it?
WORF: No. It is still my enemy.

[Bridge]
RIKER: With this new extricator, sir, we can eliminate three more bulky machines from cargo space.
PICARD: That's excellent, Number One.
TASHA: Captain, there's an unauthorized entry in main Shuttlebay.
REMMICK: Unauthorized?
PICARD: Who is it, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Computer reads the ID number of Jake Kurland. Bridge to main Shuttlebay. Mister Kurland, this is Lieutenant Yar. Respond.
REMMICK: Isn't the area secured?
RIKER: Not now, Remmick. He's going to take this out, Captain.
TASHA: I'm locking off the bay launch doors, Captain.
WORF: Too late. He's using the flight emergency override
LAFORGE: Smart kid.
REMMICK: Kid?
TASHA: He's launching.
PICARD: On viewer. lieutenant Yar, open channel. Enterprise to shuttlecraft. Mister Kurland, this is Captain Picard. Mister Kurland.
JAKE (voiceover): Captain, I'm going to Beltane Nine

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: To sign onto a freighter. Tell my father I'm sorry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: You can tell him yourself, in person. Bring that ship back at once.
JAKE (voiceover): No.

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: I can't face him. I'm leaving.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, he's unbalanced the dilithium reaction.

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: I've lost power!

[Bridge]
RIKER: All he's got left are his maneuvering jets, Captain.
LAFORGE: At this trajectory, he'll enter the atmosphere and burn up at two hundred kilometers.
PICARD: Probable impact?
DATA: Atmospheric entry seventy eight seconds.
PICARD: Options?
WORF: Tractor beam?
RIKER: Not possible. He's too far away for a positive lock.
TASHA: He's out of transporter range.
REMMICK: Captain, you are completely responsible for that boy's life.
PICARD: Mister Remmick, either get out of my way and keep quiet, or I will have you removed from the Bridge. Viewer on shuttle cockpit.
TASHA: Visual on main viewer.
PICARD: Mister Kurland.
JAKE (screen): I can't get the engine started. What am I going to do? I'm going to crash.
RIKER: He needs another fifty seconds for the core to cool down before it can restart.
PICARD: Stay calm, Jake. We'll get you back.

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: Please, help me!
PICARD (voiceover): Jake!
JAKE: It's no use, Captain. I'm going to die out here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: He'll need another thirty seconds before he can restart.
DATA: Irrelevant, sir. Even if he restarts his engine now, he will not have enough thrust to escape impact.
PICARD: Mister Kurland, you are not going to die out there. You are going to do exactly what I tell you. Now, take the nose of the shuttlecraft and aim it directly at Relva Seven.

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: Aim it at Relva? I can't do that. It's crazy.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do it!
JAKE (voiceover): But I'll burn up!
DATA: Twenty eight seconds to impact.
PICARD: Jake, listen very carefully. This is Captain Picard and I am giving you an order. Aim the shuttle at Relva!

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: Okay. It's done.
PICARD (voiceover): Good.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Now, monitor your speed exactly. When it hits point zero two zero, I want you to restart the engine

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD (voiceover): And when I tell you, pull up hard.
JAKE: Point zero two zero speed. Captain, I sure hope you're right.
PICARD (voiceover): You'll just have to trust me.
JAKE: Point zero zero three.

[Bridge]
JAKE (voiceover): Zero zero nine. Zero one two.
DATA: Six seconds to impact.
PICARD: Hold on, Jake. It's going to be a little bumpy.

[Shuttlecraft]
JAKE: Zero one five.

[Bridge]
JAKE (voiceover): Zero one nine.
PICARD: Restart the engine, now! Pull up hard!
REMMICK: Yeah!
RIKER: Incredible, Captain!
REMMICK: How did he do it? I thought
LAFORGE: He built up enough speed and then bounced her off the atmosphere!
PICARD: Mister Kurland, I assume you can maneuver it home?
JAKE (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: Do it. Then report to Mister Riker.
JAKE (screen): Yes, sir!
REMMICK: Very original, Captain. But how did that child acquire access to a shuttlecraft?
RIKER: Kurland is a highly qualified Enterprise Academy candidate, fully trained in many areas including shuttles.
REMMICK: And did this full training include discipline?
PICARD: Mister Remmick, young men sometimes make rash choices. Which is why Mister Kurland will receive a strong refresher specifically in discipline
REMMICK: I'll note that in my report.
PICARD: Full cooperation, Number One.

[Relva 7 Corridor]
RONDON: You. I have a package for Operations. Where is it?
WESLEY: End of the corridor, room on your right. One oh four.
WESLEY: Excuse me.
RONDON: You blocked my path. you Bulgallian sludge rat!
WESLEY: I'm sorry, it was an honest mistake. I apologize.
CHANG: Is there a problem here, gentlemen?
WESLEY: No, sir, I
RONDON: How dare you! I am Rondon, you despicable Melanoid slimeworm! Liar!
WESLEY: Who do you think you're bullying? You bumped into me. It was your mistake. You were at fault. Do you want this to become violent?
RONDON: Friend. I like you.
MORDOCK: A very strange reaction.
WESLEY: Not really. When he raised his hand, I saw that it was webbed. The sign of a Zaldan.
CHANG: But you became hostile.
WESLEY: Zaldans are infuriated by courtesy. They view it as a form of phony social behavior, designed to cover true feelings.
CHANG: Congratulations, Mister Crusher. You handled that particular incident very well.
MORDOCK: Was this incident deliberate?
CHANG: It's important to know how you candidates deal with other cultures, other species.
MORDOCK: Then it was a test.
CHANG: Yes. Not all tests are announced, or what they appear to be.
MORDOCK: Zaldans have webbed fingers? I wouldn't have passed.

[Observation Lounge]
REMMICK: You're an android, correct?
DATA: Yes, sir.
REMMICK: And as an android, you are programmed to tell the entire truth?
DATA: Yes, sir.
REMMICK: There is a problem with this ship, Mister Data. It's in the records, somewhere. I need your help to find it.
DATA: All of the ship's records are available to you, sir.
REMMICK: This information is very cleverly hidden. Your Captain is not what he appears to be. Do not forget you have loyalty to Starfleet above all else.
DATA: Loyalty is not the issue, Commander. There is nothing wrong with Captain Picard or the ship's logs. Therefore there must be something wrong with your original assumption.
REMMICK: That is not acceptable, Mister Data.
DATA: Acceptable or not, sir, it is the truth.
REMMICK: Just how did this contaminant get aboard the ship?
WORF: By accident, sir.
REMMICK: Meaning Captain Picard has no standing procedure for this type of situation?
WORF: No. Meaning by accident, sir.
REMMICK: You don't like me very much, do you?
WORF: Is it required, sir?
REMMICK: How would you characterize your relationship with Captain Picard?
CRUSHER: We're Starfleet officers who've known each other for many years.
REMMICK: Everything said here is confidential, Doctor. You can be completely open with me.
CRUSHER: About what?
REMMICK: About how you feel serving with a man who is responsible for the death of your husband.
CRUSHER: My personal feelings about Captain Picard are irrelevant to this investigation, and none of your business.
REMMICK: Then you confirm the accuracy of the log report. You violated the Prime Directive with the Edo. You deliberately interfered with their laws.
PICARD: Yes. It's exactly as I explained it in the log records.
REMMICK: All to save Doctor Crusher's son?
PICARD: A member of my crew was being held unjustly. I stand by my decision. Mister Remmick, you have talked to every member of this ship. I think you've had enough time to find out whatever it is you're looking for.
REMMICK: Are you afraid if I keep looking that I'll find you're guilty?
PICARD: The only thing I'm guilty of is allowing this charade to go on so long.

[Admiral's Quarters]
PICARD: Admiral, if it is me you're investigating, ask me directly what it is you want to know. And please tell me exactly what is going on.
QUINN: I need a little more time, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: How much time? I won't tolerate my crew being harassed any longer.
QUINN: Remmick's full report is almost ready.
PICARD: I want to be here when he presents it.
QUINN: That has always been my intention. Commander Remmick, report to Admiral Quinn.
REMMICK (voiceover): On my way, sir.
PICARD: This has been a strain on our friendship.
QUINN: I know. Believe me, Jean Luc, I regret that, but it has been necessary.

[Classroom]
MORDOCK: I can't get it.
WESLEY: Yes, you can. Don't fight it. Relax into it and let it come by itself.
MORDOCK: No, it's going too fast. Wesley, I can't do it.
WESLEY: Yes you can. You've got your rotation factor. Just put in your vector coordinates.
COMPUTER: Time elapsed.
CHANG: Congratulations, Mordock. That was the second fastest time ever recorded on this test. You all did well.
MORDOCK: No, it should not have been that way. Mister Crusher helped me.
CHANG: Yes. I know. An interesting choice, Mister Crusher. Especially considering how close you and Mister Mordock are in overall score. You all have an hour to prepare for your last test.
WESLEY: The psych test, sir?
CHANG: We prefer to think of it as a psychological evaluation based on reactions to various individual problems, but psych test will do.

[Admiral's Quarters]
REMMICK: Sir?
QUINN: Please sit down, Mister Remmick. Proceed with your report.
REMMICK: Admiral, I've done my best to be thorough during this investigation.
QUINN: Continue.
REMMICK: I couldn't find what you asked, sir. I spoke to officer after officer, at length. I pried into the ships log reports. And yet I could find nothing wrong. Except, perhaps, a casual familiarity among the Bridge crew, but mostly that comes from a sense of teamwork, and the feeling of family. I'm sorry, sir. I did my best.
QUINN: Quite. You're dismissed, Commander.
REMMICK: Yes, sir. Captain Picard, my tour in the Inspector General's office will be up in six months. When I'm finished, this is where I'd like to serve, sir.
QUINN: Don't judge the young man too harshly. He's a good officer.
PICARD: It's not him I'm inclined to judge.
QUINN: Don't judge me too harshly either, until I've finished. We had to be very sure of you. Some of us at Starfleet Command became suspicious of certain problems in the Federation.
PICARD: What kind of problems?
QUINN: Something or someone is trying to destroy the fabric of everything we've built up in the last two hundred years.
PICARD: What's your evidence?
QUINN: I can't go into that. There are too many people involved.
PICARD: What do you want from me?
QUINN: I don't know whether the threat comes from the inside or whether it's from outside. I need people I can trust in strong positions throughout the Federation.
PICARD: You have my complete support. You know that.
QUINN: That's not enough. I want to promote you to Admiral, and I want you to take over as Commandant of Starfleet Academy.
PICARD: The Academy.
QUINN: Yes.
PICARD: The Academy?
QUINN: I need you close.
PICARD: Then there was never a problem with the Enterprise.
QUINN: No, but I had to be sure you hadn't been co-opted.
PICARD: Greg, this is politics, and I'm not good at politics. Surely there are others who are better suited.
QUINN: All right. Even if I am wrong, and I hope I am, you're still the best man for the job.
PICARD: I appreciate the value of what you're offering. It's not a decision I can make quickly.
QUINN: I need an answer soon.
PICARD: All right. You'll have it tonight, Admiral. Thank you.

[Relva 7 Corridor]
CHANG: Mister Mordock will be finished with his psych test momentarily.
WESLEY: Mordock? Are you all right?
MORDOCK: I will be.
CHANG: Mister Crusher. You're next. Good luck.

[Room 101]
WESLEY: I'm here. I'm ready. Maybe they forgot. Breathe. Got to remember to breathe.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Evacuate immediately. Sixty five seconds to seal off.
WESLEY: Somebody help! There's something's wrong in the Environmental lab!
MAN (voiceover): Help!

[Environmental Maintenance Laboratory]
MAN: Help! We're trapped. I can't move. Please, help me.
MAN: We're going to die in here!
MAN: The liquid hydrogen's going to blow! The shut off valve ruptured. Hurry up! My legs are crushed. You've got to help me!
WESLEY: Give me a hand with this!
MAN 2: We're going to die!
WESLEY: Help me!
MAN 2: I can't! It's too late!
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds to seal off.
WESLEY: Come on!
MAN: If we don't get out of here fast, they'll seal us in to contain the explosion.
WESLEY: Come on, you're not hurt.
MAN 2: I can't go through that!
WESLEY: Yes, you can. You've got to.
COMPUTER: Twenty seconds to seal off.
WESLEY: Come on! I can't carry you both! You're not hurt.
COMPUTER: Ten seconds to seal off.
WESLEY: Come on!
MAN 2: It's too late.
WESLEY: I'm sorry.

[Relva 7 Corridor]
WESLEY: Officer Chang! There's
CHANG: Wesley! It's all right.
MAN: Thanks.
CHANG: An excellent performance, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Performance? That was the test?
CHANG: Yes.
WESLEY: A man could have died.
CHANG: Theoretically, yes. You had to make a choice. And you did. There's no right or wrong about it. Your greatest fear has been that you couldn't make that decision.
WESLEY: Because of my father? Because Cap. Because someone made that choice, and my father died.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Yes, Number One?
RIKER: Mister Remmick has left the ship.
PICARD: Yes. He found nothing wrong on the Enterprise. And you can inform the crew that Admiral Quinn is most impressed.
RIKER: Thank you. They'll be pleased that. Can you explain now what he was after?
PICARD: They were after me, Number One. They want me to take over as Commandant, Starfleet Academy.
RIKER: Congratulations! What a wonderful choice, sir. You'll be able to shape the minds of the future leaders of Starfleet. You haven't decided what you're going to do.
PICARD: Yes, I have, Number One. I've decided I'm going for a walk.

[Classroom]
CHANG: I'm proud of all of you. You've done a superb job. Each of you would make a fine Starfleet officer. It's unfair that only one candidate from Relva will attend the Academy this year, and a loss to the Federation if the rest of you do not return to test again. Mister Mordock will be the candidate. His results were slightly higher than Mister Crusher's. Congratulations, Mister Mordock. You're the first Benzite in Starfleet.
MORDOCK: Thank you, sir, but it's not right. It shouldn't be me. Wesley lost points because he helped me. He should not be punished for his generosity.
CHANG: He wasn't. He lost time, but it wasn't only that. Candidates, thank you. And good luck.
MORDOCK: I am sorry, Wesley.
WESLEY: It's okay. You deserved to win. Besides, you would have done the same thing for me.
MORDOCK: Yes. I believe I would.
T'SHANIK: Congratulations.
OLIANA: Well, personally, I hate losing. So you'd better be ready next year, Wesley. I won't be easy to beat.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Mister Kurland!
JAKE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Are you feeling better?
JAKE: Yes, sir, Look, I'm sorry I damaged the shuttle, Captain. But Mister Riker says I can work on fixing it as part of my discipline training.
PICARD: Good idea. I hope you learned that running away solves nothing.
JAKE: Yes, sir. And I am sorry I messed up.
PICARD: At least you kept your wits about you out there. Don't forget that.
JAKE: No, sir. And thank you. Thank you for saving my life.
PICARD: That's my job, young man.
JAKE: Yes, sir.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Mister Crusher? Why aren't you in your dress uniform for Admiral Quinn's farewell dinner?
WESLEY: I didn't think that would be appropriate.
PICARD: Why not?
WESLEY: I failed, Captain. I didn't get into the Academy. I failed you and I failed the Enterprise.
PICARD: Ridiculous. Did you do your best?
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: When you test next year, and you will test next year, do you think your performance will improve?
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: Good. The only person you're truly competing against, Wesley, is yourself.
WESLEY: Then you're not disappointed?
PICARD: Wesley, you have to measure your successes and your failures within, not by anything I or anyone else might think. But, if it helps you to know this, I failed the first time. And you may not tell anyone!
WESLEY: You? You failed?
PICARD: Yes. But not the second time. Now, you'll do me the courtesy of joining us at dinner. I have to disappoint an old friend.

[Transporter room]
QUINN: Wish I could convince you to change your mind.
PICARD: I'll serve you better here.
QUINN: This is where you belong.
PICARD: If you need me.
QUINN: I've been playing politics too long. Perhaps I see conspiracies everywhere. Don't worry. Safe travels, my friend.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Set course to Algeron Four, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Then shall we continue with our mission?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Excellent. Mister Crusher, engage.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. Communication from Starfleet. They have reported a disturbance in the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Of what nature?
WORF: A battle. Quadrant nine, coordinates zero seven zero, mark three. There's no information who is involved. They are asking if we can investigate.
PICARD: Answer affirmative. Lieutenant La Forge, lay in the course.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: I have no reports of any Federation ships in that area, sir.
RIKER: Ferengi?
PICARD: It's a little out of their territory.
RIKER: Shall we separate the saucer?
PICARD: Let's get a little more information first.
LAFORGE: Course set, Captain.
PICARD: Speed, warp seven.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir, warp seven.
PICARD: Engage.
LAFORGE: We are now approaching the Neutral Zone.
TASHA: Sir, sensors indicate several recent photon explosions and heavy phaser activity.
DATA: Sir, I have analyzed the residue from the explosions. This is of no known Ferengi design. It is possibly Romulan.
PICARD: Now there's a name we haven't heard for a while.
RIKER: I could go a lot longer without hearing it.
PICARD: If the Romulans have returned to this sector we should know about that. Mister Worf, any further activity?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Slow to half impulse.
LAFORGE: Going to one half impulse. Now entering quadrant nine zero seven, mark three.
PICARD: Shields and deflectors up. Go to Yellow Alert.
DATA: I have located a vessel, sir. It is drifting.
PICARD: Put it on main viewer.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Magnify.
DATA: The life support systems on the ship are failing, sir. Propulsion, navigation, and all communication, inoperative.
PICARD: Any trace of the other vessel?
DATA: No, sir.
RIKER: If it is a Romulan vessel, it could be cloaked.
PICARD: Tell Starfleet we're entering the Neutral Zone.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, take us in a little closer.
LAFORGE: Aye, aye, sir.
PICARD: Stay sharp everyone.
RIKER: It's Talarian.
PICARD: Life signs?
WORF: Nothing yet, sir.
DATA: I have identified the vessel, Captain. It is the Batris, a general cargo vessel.
RIKER: A long way from home.
PICARD: Keep alert.
WORF: Captain, possible life signs.
PICARD: What do you mean, possible?
WORF: The readings emanate from a location near what is left of main Engineering. There is a great deal of magnetic and radioactive clutter making a positive determination difficult.
RIKER: I'll prepare an away team.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, you stay at your post. If this is the result of a Romulan attack, they may still be in the area.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Data, Geordi, let's go.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, are we close enough to use the Visual Acuity transmitter?
LAFORGE: We can certainly try it, sir.
PICARD: Please do. And Number One? Everything about this seems wrong.
RIKER: Agreed. It smells like a trap. Let's go.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41503.7. We have entered the Neutral Zone, where a Talarian freighter has been severely damaged in a battle. I have sent an away team to investigate.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: What exactly does this device do?
LAFORGE: Data and I have been working on a way to transmit what my visor sees. If it works, the Bridge'll be able to monitor us.
DATA: It has restrictions. The information from Geordi's visor is so complex it is difficult to encode. Therefore the signal breaks down easily.
RIKER: That means it doesn't have much range.
LAFORGE: Exactly. So far, the effective range is only few kilometers, but we're working on it. La Forge to Bridge.
WORF (voiceover): This is the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Worf, I've switched on the Visual Acuity Transmitter.
WORF (voiceover): We are receiving. The signal is strong.
LAFORGE: Okay, Worf. I am switching off for transport.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Let's be ready for anything. Energize.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): This is the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm switching on the transmitter.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ready to receive. Put this on main viewer.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Extraordinary. Now I'm beginning to understand him.
PICARD: Geordi. What was that? Over to the left.
LAFORGE (voiceover): What?
PICARD: Yes, that. No, no, back. Yes, that. Right there. What is that?

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: That's Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ah, to me it's just an undefined form, standing in a visual frenzy. Can you filter out the extraneous information?
LAFORGE (voiceover): No, I get it all simultaneously.
PICARD: But it's just a jumble.

[Batris Corridor]
PICARD (voiceover): How can you make head or tail of it?
LAFORGE: I select what I want and then disregard the rest.
PICARD (voiceover): But how is that possible?
LAFORGE: Well, how, in a noisy room, can you select one specific voice or sound?
PICARD (voiceover): Of course, something you learn.
LAFORGE: Exactly.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): It's something I have learned. Does that make it more clear?
PICARD: Look over at Data. There's an aura around Data.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Well, of course. He's an android.
PICARD: You say that as if you think that's what we all see.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Don't you?

[Batris Corridor]
RIKER: Sir, I hate to break this up, but

[Bridge]
PICARD: Oh, yes, of course, Number One. Proceed.

[Batris Corridor]
RIKER: Let's go.
DATA: I am detecting high levels of deuterium gas, probably from the leakage in the drive system.
RIKER: Toxic?
DATA: Not as yet, sir. The life signs are emanating from the far side of Engineering.
RIKER: What's the safest way around?
DATA: All routes are equally dangerous, sir.
LAFORGE: Well, what's the least dangerous route, Data?
DATA: There is no significant difference.
RIKER: Steady on.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker! Commander.
RIKER: Yes, Geordi.
LAFORGE: There's a fissure developing in the bulkhead. The skin of the ship is losing its integrity.
RIKER: Where is it? I can't see it.
LAFORGE: Right there.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Geordi, step closer. It looks to me like a spectrograph indicating metal fatigue.

[Batris Corridor]
PICARD (voiceover): Is that how you interpret it?
LAFORGE: Very good, Captain. Exactly right.
RIKER: How long before this hull ruptures?
LAFORGE: It's impossible to be exact. I'd say five minutes. Probably less.
RIKER: Let's go.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Geordi, we've lost transmission.

[Batris Engineering]
LAFORGE: Signal overload. I'm surprised it lasted this long.
RIKER: We've reached the core, Captain.
DATA: The life signs are very strong now, sir. They are coming from over there.
RIKER: Is there any other way around?
DATA: Negative. This is the only way. The safest way to proceed is for me to cross alone. The heat and toxic gasses have less effect on me.
RIKER: Agreed. Captain, Data's gone ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): The life signs seem to be coming from the far side of Engineering.

[Batris Engineering]
DATA: I've found them, sir. The door to their compartment is jammed.
DATA: The control mechanism's not operative, sir.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker of the USS Enterprise. Do you hear me?
DATA: I advise against the use of phasers, sir. The gas buildup is too great.
LAFORGE: He's right, sir. A phaser discharge now could blow us all out of here.
DATA: Shall I, sir?
PICARD (voiceover): Number One, what's going on?
RIKER: We're about to force the door.
PICARD (voiceover): What is it? What do you see?
RIKER: Klingons.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Klingons?

[Batris compartment]
KORRIS: I am Korris.
RIKER: We'll handle the formalities later. Right now we have to get off this ship. Are there any others survivors?
KORRIS: No.
DATA: I believe I have found a quicker way out of here, sir.
RIKER: Check him out.
DATA: He is alive, sir, but just barely.
RIKER: Then pick the body and let's get out of here.
KORRIS: No. I will carry him.
DATA: As you wish.
LAFORGE: Come on, let's go!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Tasha, go to transporter room three. I want you there when the away team returns.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, we are out of time. This ship is blowing.
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got a lock on us?

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Too much interference. You have to get farther away from the Engineering section.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris is imminent.
PICARD: They're out of options. Do it!

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Now!
RIKER: Bridge, this is Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): We are taking the survivors to Sickbay.
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay.
WORF: Captain. Request permission to join you.
PICARD: Granted.

[Sickbay]
WORF: Debris is still being analyzed.
PICARD: Inform me as soon as it is complete.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Situation, Doctor.
CRUSHER: His injuries are very critical.
PICARD: I am Jean Luc Picard, Captain of this vessel.
KORRIS: My name is Korris, Captain of the Klingon Defense Force. This is Lieutenant Konmel.
PICARD: Would you mind telling me what has happened?
KORRIS: We were passengers. The Talarians were taking us to outpost M Zed Five.
PICARD: What was the ship doing in the Neutral Zone?
KORRIS: We were attacked without warning by a Ferengi cruiser. During the course of the battle we must have unknowingly entered the Neutral Zone.
WORF: The weapons were not Ferengi.
KORRIS: What is your name?
WORF: I am Lieutenant Worf.
KORRIS: And you are a member of this crew?
WORF: Yes.
KORRIS: You are correct. The weapons were Klingon, but the vessel was Ferengi.
PICARD: What precipitated the attack?
KORRIS: I don't know. We were in our quarters.
KONMEL: The captain of the freighter had no combat experience so he did not anticipate the first attack, which was nearly fatal.
KORRIS: We took control with his permission. The Ferengi called for surrender. I told the Captain to agree to all their terms. We had only one chance, but I was confident it would be enough.
KONMEL: As adversaries the Ferengi are not very worthy.
WORF: Still, your weapons were limited and their ship superior.
KORRIS: Yes. All we had was an ancient battery of Merculite rockets. Our only chance was to trick them into lowering their shields.
KONMEL: We reduced power and lured them in.
KORRIS: They suspected nothing.
KONMEL: Then, when they lowered their shields to beam over a boarding party, we opened fire.
PICARD: Still, there are some points that I'm not very clear about.
KORRIS: Captain, we are hungry and tired.
PICARD: Of course.
KORRIS: If there is anything else you wish to know about this incident, we will be available.
WORF: Permission to show our guests to their quarters, Captain.
PICARD: Permission granted.
RIKER: What do you think, Captain?
PICARD: There's more to this than we've been told. Why was the Talarian ship so far off course? What was its point of departure?
RIKER: Why would three Klingon officers hitch a ride on a broken down freighter?
PICARD: Contact Starfleet. Find out what they know about Korris and company.
RIKER: It'll take forty eight hours for a message to get to Starfleet on subspace frequency.
PICARD: They're going to be with us for a while. Let's find out all we can about them.
RIKER: Do you think I should have assigned a security team to keep an eye on our guests?
PICARD: No. Worf can deal with anything that might arise. How's your patient, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Not good. I'll keep you posted.

[Guest Quarters]
KORRIS: Sit, friend. Let us eat.
KONMEL: O'Mat gri tea and piviots.
KORRIS: I did not know there were Klingons serving on human Starfleet vessels.
WORF: As far as I know, I am the only one.
KORRIS: Tell me, what it is like for the hunter to lie down with the prey? Have they tamed you, or have you always been docile?
KONMEL: Does it make you gentle? Has it filled your heart with peace?
KORRIS: Do glorious battles no longer inspire your dreams?
WORF: Why do you mock me? Why do you wish to anger me?
KORRIS: Only to see if it is still possible.
WORF: It is.

[Sickbay]
NURSE: Doctor! I think you'd better come and look at this. The Klingon's condition is worsening.
CRUSHER: He's convulsing. Get the hypospray.

[Guest Quarters]
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Korris, this is Captain Picard.
KORRIS: Yes, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): I am sorry to report your comrade's injuries are beyond our medical abilities.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's dying.
CRUSHER: Is there any special arrangement you would like for the body?
KORRIS: It is only an empty shell now. Please treat it as such.

[Corridor]
KONMEL: The opponent that killed Kunivas should have been an enemy, then his death would have been even more glorious.
WORF: If the opponent was not an enemy, who was it? Tell me. What really happened?
KORRIS: I do not wish to anger you. We are after all, brothers lost among infidels. Tell me, how is it that you come to this ship, that uniform?
WORF: Through an act of kindness. The Romulans attacked the Khitomer outpost. Everyone was killed. I was buried under the rubble and left for dead. A human Starfleet officer found me. He took me to his home on Gault and told his wife to raise me as his son.
KONMEL: How old were you?
WORF: Before the age of inclusion.
KONMEL: That young?
KORRIS: Gault is a farming colony.

[Room]
WORF: When my foster brother and I were of age, we entered the Starfleet Academy. He hated it and returned to Gault. I stayed.
KONMEL: You have not spent much time among your own kind.
WORF: Hardly none.
KORRIS: So, when the night was still and quiet, and the sound of the blood rushing through your veins filled your ears, the only way to silence it was to slip out into the night and, like the hunter that spawned you, join in the struggle of life and death. You were unable
KONMEL: And those around you did not understand. You frightened them.
KORRIS: They shunned you. Cursed you. Called you vile names, and you knew not why. Even now do you know why you are driven? Why you cannot relent or repent or confess or abstain? How could you know? There have been no other Klingons to lead you to that knowledge.
WORF: Yes. Yes, those feelings are part of me. But I control them. They do not rule me.
KORRIS: Yes. To fit in, the humans demand that you change the one thing that you cannot change. Yet, because you cannot, you do. That too is the mark of the warrior. You said that I mock you. I do not. I salute you.
KONMEL: But against whom do you test yourself? Against what enemy do you charge into battle?
WORF: I have been in battle.
KORRIS: Then you understand.
WORF: Yes, I do.
KORRIS: Brother, this peace, this alliance, is like a living death to warriors like us.
KONMEL: You're right, we lied to your Commander. We commandeered that freighter and left the crew behind, and we were in search of a place where we could live our lives like true Klingons.
WORF: You did not battle the Ferengi.
KORRIS: It was one of our own cruisers sent to bring us back.
WORF: You destroyed a Klingon vessel?
KORRIS: I did not want to battle our brothers. I had no choice. They had been corrupted by the illusion of peace.
KONMEL: They traded our birthright so they could die in their sleep.
KORRIS: A peace that makes the Klingon heart that beats in my chest wither and die. Is it permitted for you to show us around this ship?
WORF: Yes, of course.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And as I watched Worf, it was like looking at a man that I had never known.
DATA: Captain, long range sensors indicate another vessel approaching this area.
PICARD: Can you identify it?
DATA: No, sir, not yet.
PICARD: Keep a close watch on it. So close to the Neutral Zone it can't be random.

[Engineering]
KONMEL: What magnificent battles we could have at the helm of this ship.
WORF: Perhaps your dreams of glory no longer fit the time. They belong buried with the past.
KORRIS: Standing here we will never know. Our answer lies out there. Our instincts will lead us.
KONMEL: Instincts that have not been dulled by living among civilized men.

[Bridge]
DATA: I believe, sir, that was the first time outsiders have witnessed the Klingon death ritual.
PICARD: I can understand them looking at a dying man's eyes, but the howling?
DATA: It was a warning.
PICARD: To whom?
DATA: They are warning the dead, sir. Beware, a Klingon warrior is about to arrive.
LAFORGE: Captain, that unidentified vessel is approaching us at warp five. Intersect one hour, sixteen minutes, thirty three seconds.
PICARD: Can we get a visual?
LAFORGE: I can try, sir.
PICARD: Magnify.
LAFORGE: Hello.
RIKER: Klingons.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant Yar.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open.
PICARD: Klingon cruiser, this is Captain Jean Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
K'NERA (screen): I am Commander K'Nera. What is your purpose in this area?
PICARD: We came to investigate a battle. We rescued three Klingon survivors.
K'NERA (screen): That is all that is left of the crew of the cruiser T'Acog?
PICARD: They were not off the cruiser. They were from the freighter Batris. The leader is Captain Korris.
K'NERA (screen): You have him on your ship? He is alive?
PICARD: Yes.
K'NERA (screen): He is a criminal. A renegade, who with two others stole that freighter, and somehow destroyed the Klingon cruiser sent to bring them back. We expect the criminals to be delivered into our custody as soon as we are within transporter range.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, where are they now?
TASHA: They're with Worf on deck seventeen.
PICARD: Deck seventeen?
TASHA: Yes, sir. Near the auxiliary turbolift to the battle bridge. Shall I alert Lieutenant Worf?
PICARD: No. Send a security team.
RIKER: You don't think Worf would allow them access to the battle bridge?
PICARD: I think, Number One, we cannot assume anything.
TASHA: Captain, shall I stay at my tactical position or lead the security team?
PICARD: Lead the security team, and, Lieutenant, you understand with whom you are dealing.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
KORRIS: We have heard this ship can separate in time of battle.
WORF: Yes. When relieved of its bulk, the Enterprise becomes an exceptional weapon.
TASHA: Worf.
KORRIS: They have come for us.
TASHA: Step aside.
WORF: What is the problem?
TASHA: The Captain wants those two taken into custody.
KORRIS: Do not let them take us, Worf. Help us.
KONMEL: Listen to the voice of your blood. You are not of these people.
KORRIS: Yes. Join us.
TASHA: Go back! Please, turn around and go back to your mother.
TASHA: Bridge, we have a hostage situation on deck seventeen.
GIRL: Mommy.
TASHA: Bridge, this is Lieutenant Yar. Disregard. Situation is under control. By order of the Captain, you are confined to Security.
TASHA: I thought for a minute we had a problem.
WORF: Oh?
TASHA: Yes. It looked like Korris was going to hold that little girl as a hostage.
WORF: That is not our way. Cowards take hostages. Klingons do not.

[Brig]
KORRIS: Ri'ario.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Lieutenant. The Klingon vessel has to arrived. They have requested return of the renegades.
WORF: They will be tried and executed, sir.
PICARD: I know. Lieutenant, understand that I am not unmindful of the mixed feelings you must have about this incident.
WORF: Thank you, sir. Are there no other options, sir?
PICARD: None that I can see.
RIKER: He seems to be handling this quite well, sir.
PICARD: So far. He must be torn. These are his people.
DATA: The Klingon vessel is within range, sir. They are requesting visual contact.
PICARD: Open frequencies.
DATA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
K'NERA (screen): We are in position now to receive the criminals.
PICARD: We're prepared to transfer.
WORF: Captain. Request permission to address the Captain on the Klingon vessel. I know it is against standard procedure, but there is something I must say.
PICARD: Permission granted.
WORF: K'Mongi B'Mus.
K'NERA (screen): G'Armond T'Ris. What is it you want?
WORF: To plead.
K'NERA (screen): You waste your time. Their actions threaten the alliance. They disobeyed and must be punished.
WORF: Yes, they must be punished, but not executed with dishonor.
K'NERA (screen): Why do you care?
WORF: What burns in their eyes, fires my soul. I hear their words, and I see it all as it was. Part of me longs for that time.
K'NERA (screen): It's bred in the bone. We all do.
WORF: Then send them to a planet in the Halee system, where they can meet death on their feet with a weapon in their hands, not tied and helpless.
K'NERA (screen): When one of us dies that way it diminishes all of us.
WORF: Yes.
K'NERA (screen): Brother, I feel as you. I too wish they could fly free, but I have no choice.
WORF: Sir.
K'NERA (screen): We await the transfer.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, escort the prisoners to the Transporter room.
TASHA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
GUARD: This is Ramos. The forcefield in Security Three has been broken.
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Bridge.

[Bridge]
TASHA (voiceover): There's been an escape. At least one of my security is dead.

[Corridor]
TASHA: So is Konmel. Korris is loose and armed.
PICARD: Keep me informed, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, visual on K'Nera.
DATA: Visual on, sir.
PICARD: Captain, there will be a short delay. Korris has escaped.
K'NERA (screen): He is a trained Klingon warrior, Captain. Perhaps more than you can handle. It is not a disgrace to request our assistance.
PICARD: I think we can handle the situation.

[Engineering]
CREWMAN: He's up there!
TASHA: Captain, Korris is in main Engineering.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Korris.

[Bridge]
PICARD: This is a futile effort.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): You cannot win.
KORRIS: I will speak only to my countryman!

[Bridge]
KORRIS (voiceover): Only to Worf!

[Engineering]
TASHA: Captain, he has a phaser aimed directly at the dilithium crystal chamber.

[Bridge]
TASHA (voiceover): At that range, one blast and
PICARD: I understand, Lieutenant.
WORF: Captain, permission to leave the Bridge.
PICARD: We'll both go.

[Engineering]
PICARD: What's the situation?
TASHA: He's on the second level armed with a phaser. We do not have a clear field of fire.
PICARD: How do you suggest we proceed?
TASHA: Wait him out.
WORF: Captain, let me talk to him.
TASHA: I do not think that's a good idea, Worf. Right now he's running on adrenalin. Let it cool. There's no where he can go.
WORF: He will wait only as long as he believes it is to his advantage. The moment it is not, he will fire his phaser into the dilithium crystal chamber.
TASHA: That would destroy the Enterprise and him along with it.
WORF: Yes. He knows.
PICARD: Talk to him, Worf.
KORRIS: Brother, I knew you would come. Now I, we have a chance. I could not do it alone, but I would rather die here, than let the traitors of Kling pick the meat from my bones. With you it will work.
WORF: What will work?
KORRIS: I will demand Captain Picard give us access to the battle bridge. We will separate from the rest of the ship, then together we will light up the galaxy. Imagine the fear which will roll before us.
WORF: Captain Picard will not comply.
KORRIS: He can not, dare not refuse us. In order to save themselves, they will give us what we demand. Then, brother, we are free.
WORF: Put down the phaser.
KORRIS: Wait. I do not believe this.
WORF: Believe it.
KORRIS: I have tasted your heart. You have been with them, but you are still of us. Do not deny the challenge of your destiny. Get off your knees and soar. Open your eyes and let the dream take flight.
WORF: My brother, it is you who does not see. You look for battles in the wrong place. The test of the warrior is not without, it is within. Here, here we meet the challenge. It is the weaknesses in here a warrior must overcome.
KORRIS: No.
WORF: You have talked of glory and of conquest and legends we will write.
KORRIS: Yes, the birthright of every Klingon.
WORF: Yet in all you say, where are the words duty, honor, loyalty. Without which a warrior is nothing.
KORRIS: What are you saying? Living among these humans has sucked the Klingon heart out of you.
WORF: Put down the phaser.
KORRIS: You are a sham! My words were dust upon the ground. Your blood has no fire. You are weak like them. I don't care what you look like you are no Klingon.
WORF: Perhaps not.
PICARD: Wait.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, open hailing frequencies.
LAFORGE: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Commander K'Nera, this is Captain Picard.
K'NERA (screen): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Korris and the other Klingon are dead.
K'NERA (screen): May I speak with Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: Yes, Commander?
K'NERA (screen): How did they die?
WORF: They died well.
PICARD: Do you wish the bodies returned?
K'NERA (screen): They are now only empty shells. Dispose of them as you see fit. Worf, when your tour of duty on the Enterprise is complete. consider serving with us. Your training and experience would be of benefit to us, and perhaps there are some things we could teach you.
WORF: I am honored. Thank you.
WORF: I was just being polite, sir.
PICARD: Ah. Commendable, Lieutenant. Mister La Forge, set course for Starbase Eighty four.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Really. I have no desire to leave the Enterprise.
PICARD: Good.
LAFORGE: Coordinates set in, Captain.
PICARD: Speed, warp five.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir, warp five.
PICARD: And Mister Worf, the Bridge wouldn't be the same without you. Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41798.2. We have been ordered by Starfleet to proceed to the Lorenze Cluster and investigate the disappearance of a light cruiser, USS Drake, which was in that system trying to unravel a mystery of its own which began when recent long range probes indicated that all intelligent life on the planet Minos has disappeared.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: No help from their communications log. The Drake reported arriving at Minos and then wasn't heard from again.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The citizens of Minos gained fame during the Ersalrope wars as arms merchants. They manufactured sophisticated and highly advanced weaponry.
LAFORGE: Yeah? For which side?
DATA: Both.
LAFORGE: We are approaching the planet Minos, sir.
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Standard orbit.
RIKER: Whatever happened to the Drake, happened quickly, otherwise a man like Rice would have reported again.
PICARD: You know Captain Rice?
RIKER: We were at the Academy together.
PICARD: Tell me about him.
RIKER: Able. A good officer.
TROI: How would he react under stress?
RIKER: Paul Rice is confident to the point of arrogance, he but carries it well because he's usually right. He's a risk taker.
PICARD: Really?
RIKER: I'll give you an example. One of the final tests in advance navigation at the Academy provides the student with three options. Rice was given this test, rejected their options and offered one of his own.
PICARD: That's taking a risk.
RIKER: And it paid off. He received the top grade and now that same test has four options.
TROI: In a difficult situation a man like that would act aggressively.
RIKER: Agreed.
WORF: Commander, weren't you offered the Drake?
RIKER: Yes.
TASHA: You gave up your own command to take this assignment?
RIKER: At the time I thought it would be more advantageous for me to do a tour on the Enterprise.
DATA: Captain, readings correspond with the findings of the probe. No signs of intelligent life forms. Vegetation and animal life only.
TROI: What happened to all the people?
WORF: War?
DATA: Disease?
LAFORGE: A dissatisfied customer?
TASHA: In any war, natural disaster, even the most virulent plague, there are always survivors.
DATA: Captain, we are being hailed.
RIKER: How can that be from a planet with no people?
PICARD: Your sensors indicated no intelligent life forms?
DATA: Correct, sir. Something has scanned our language banks and is hailing us.
PICARD: On main viewer.
SALESMAN (screen): Whoever you are, wherever you're from, greetings. Welcome to Minos, the arsenal of freedom.
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
SALESMAN (screen): If you need a little something special, be it for one target or multiple targets, we got it. You'll see it here on Minos, where we live by the motto 'peace through superior firepower'.
PICARD: To whom am I speaking?
SALESMAN (screen): To be totally armed is to be totally secure. Remember, the early bird that hesitates gets wormed.
DATA: It is a recorded message, sir.
SALESMAN (screen): Minos, the arsenal of freedom. Perfection in highly advanced weaponry. Versatility.
PICARD: We must have triggered something left over from the Erselrope wars when the arms business was booming.
SALESMAN (screen): So lock on to my signal and beam on down, because we don't just provide weapons
PICARD: Shut that off.
SALESMAN (screen): We provide complete weapons systems.
LAFORGE: It's a heck of a sales pitch.
PICARD: If an automated message system is still functioning, there could be other systems on that planet that are still operational.
TASHA: Weapons systems?
PICARD: Possibly.
RIKER: We're going to have to go down there to find it.
PICARD: Number One, prepare am away team.
RIKER: Lieutenant Yar. Data.
TASHA: Commander, I recommend a minimum complement.
RIKER: Oh? I would have thought otherwise.
TASHA: We'll keep the first landing party small and mobile, until I'm confident that whatever killed the inhabitants of this planet isn't still down there.
RIKER: Okay.

[Planet Surface]
RIKER: Spooky. Riker.

[Bridge]
PICARD: This is the Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): We'll start a pattern search from this point.
PICARD: Keep this channel open.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Aye, sir.
DATA: Commander, our communications are being monitored.
RIKER: By whom?
DATA: Since there is no intelligent life, the question is by what?

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Captain?
PICARD: Yes, we heard that, Number One. We'll try and track it down from here.

[Ruins]
TASHA: Tritanium. It's been melted.
RIKER: What could do that?
TASHA: I don't know. Whatever it was, it's beyond our technology.
DATA: Over here.
TASHA: Wow.
RIKER: We've never even seen anything like this.
TASHA: It's undamaged.
RIKER: Maybe a demonstration model for some potential buyer.
TASHA: Maybe. Let's spread out a little.

[Bridge]
T'SU: Commander Riker, this is Ensign T'Su.

[Ruins]
T'SU (voiceover): I'm monitoring a slight energy buildup near your position. I am not able to pinpoint the source.
RIKER: Give me a direction.

[Bridge]
T'SU: East of your position, ten meters. I will continue monitoring.

[Jungle]
RIKER: I can't see anything through here. The underbrush is too thick.
RICE: Hello. Commander Riker.
RIKER: Rice! Where did you come from?
RICE: I was over there.
RIKER: We were worried about you. I should have known you'd pop up.
RICE: How are you, Commander Riker?
RIKER: Me? Forget about me. How are you? No word, no message, nothing.
RICE: How many are with you?
RIKER: There are two others. Where's the Drake? Where's your crew?
PICARD (voiceover): Number One, a word. We have some information you should be aware of.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign T'Su?
T'SU: Sensors indicate low level energy readings, but the only life signs are the away team.
PICARD: You copy, Number One?

[Jungle]
RIKER: Understood. You look strange, Paul.
RICE: I was injured getting here.
RIKER: Do you need medical help?
RICE: No. What's your purpose here?
RIKER: Commander Data, Lieutenant Yar.
DATA: Sir, other than ourselves, I am picking up no life signs here.
RIKER: I know.
RICE: Riker, you didn't answer me. Who sent you here to look for me?
RIKER: Your mother. She's worried about you.
RICE: Tell me about your ship, Riker. It's the Enterprise, isn't it?
RIKER: No. The name of my ship is the Lollipop.
RICE: I have no knowledge of that ship.
RIKER: It's just been commissioned. It's a good ship.
RICE: Refresh me, would you, Riker? What's its size, it's complement?
RIKER: Who is here with you?
RICE: What's the armament on the Lollipop?
RIKER: Paul, I will only answer your questions if you answer mine. Why do you want to know so much about my ship?
RICE: We're friends, aren't we?
RIKER: Old friends.
RICE: Our top speed is warp three. What's yours?
RIKER: Is? Then the Drake has not been destroyed.
RICE: The Drake?
RIKER: Yes, your ship.
RICE: Of course, my ship is the Drake.
RIKER: Where is it?
RICE: Classified.
RIKER: Classified?
RICE: Please, it's important. Our survival depends on knowing. What's the armament on your ship?
RIKER: Ten.
RICE: Ten? I don't understand. Ten what?
RIKER: Six.
RICE: Commander Riker, your answers make no sense.
RIKER: You haven't used my first name once, Paul. You remember it, don't you? You don't, do you? Because you don't exist. You're a fake. You're an image of the original, aren't you? Answer me!
PICARD (voiceover): Report, Number One.
RIKER: The image of Rice has been replaced by something which is hovering several meters away.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, get your team back up here.

[Jungle]
RIKER: Prepare to beam up.
TASHA: Commander!

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's happened, Number One? Report. Report! Report!

[Jungle]
TASHA: He can't answer you, Captain.
DATA: Commander Riker just has been encased in some kind of energy field.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is he alive?

[Jungle]
DATA: Unknown.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Some kind of weapon, which for a time took the form of Captain Paul Rice, has enveloped Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room three, have you been able to lock on to the away team?
CHIEF (voiceover): I am unable to lock on to Commander Riker, sir.
PICARD: Ensign T'Su, situation report.
T'SU: Previous energy readings are gone.
PICARD: Data, have you been able to assess Commander Riker's condition?
DATA (voiceover): He appears to be in some kind of stasis.
PICARD: Theorize, Mister Data. What would be the purpose of such an encasement?

[Jungle]
DATA: Typically, the purpose of such an enclosure is for storage.
PICARD (voiceover): Which would suggest what?
TASHA: That sooner or later someone or something will be along to collect him.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by. I'm coming down.
TROI: You, sir?
PICARD: Yes. Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain. Meet me in Transporter room three. Mister La Forge, you have command of the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And whatever happens down there, your prime responsibility is to the ship.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir.
TROI: Captain, I take great exception to your decision to beam down.
PICARD: Noted.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Is it just Riker?
PICARD: Yes. Apparently he's confined in some sort of force field. Energize.

[Jungle]
PICARD: Any changes?
TASHA: Data's figured out what it is.
CRUSHER: Are you getting any life signs?
DATA: He is alive. What appeared in the form of Captain Rice is an intelligence gathering device used during the Ersalrope Wars.
TASHA: Probably developed here.
DATA: It projects an image of someone the subject will trust, gets as much information as possible.
TASHA: If it's found out, it encases the subject to await a more detailed interrogation later.
CRUSHER: Clever.
PICARD: Can you remove it?
DATA: Possibly, but I will need to know the exact frequency and I cannot determine the risk to Commander Riker.
PICARD: We have little choice. Whatever has him is interrupting the transporter beam. Remove it.
DATA: This will take some time, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: I am picking up energy readings.
LAFORGE: Captain, Lieutenant La Forge here. Sensors indicate energy readings in your area.

[Jungle]
PICARD: Doctor, over here!

[Cavern]
PICARD: Doctor.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: This one is different. It's anticipating. Data, I need you. Set your phaser on kill. I'll lead left, you get it.
TASHA: Captain? Doctor Crusher?
DATA: Captain Picard? I have a malfunction.
TASHA: Enterprise, this is Lieutenant Yar. Mine's out too.
DATA: The close pass by the weapons must have disrupted our communicators.
TASHA: Keep on working. I'll look for the Captain and Doctor Crusher.

[Cavern]
CRUSHER: Ow! My arm.
PICARD: How bad is it?
CRUSHER: Oh, it's bad.
PICARD: Come on. Alright, don't worry, we'll get you out of here. Enterprise, this is the Captain. Two to beam up. Enterprise? Enterprise, come in. Data? Lieutenant Yar?
CRUSHER: What's wrong? Why aren't they working?
PICARD: I don't know. But don't worry. As soon as they realize our communicators are not working, the sensors will find us and Geordi will beam us up. Now, just you hold on. I'm sorry about this.
PICARD: Hold on, it won't be long.
CRUSHER: I must keep conscious.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: Data, I can't find them.
DATA: Step back, please. I believe I have found it.
RIKER: Data.
DATA: All vital signs returning to normal.
TASHA: Good. Now Geordi can get us out of here. Come on. The Captain and Doctor Crusher can't be far away.

[Bridge]
T'SU: Sir, I'm reading life forms on the planet. All five members of the away team.
LAFORGE: Good. They must have freed Commander Riker. Transporter Room, get a lock on the away team and beam them up.
WORF: Shields just came on. Deflectors also up. I'm picking up an object off the port bow. It's firing!
LAFORGE: Red Alert! Battle stations! We can't the away team beam up with our shields in place.
WORF: Phasers ready. Photon torpedoes standing by. Locking on target. Correction. Target has disappeared.
LAFORGE: Give me a full scan.
WORF: Scanning. No readings yet. Wait. Something dead astern.
LAFORGE: Emergency power to shields!
WORF: Object is firing.
LAFORGE: Return fire!
WORF: No use. It's gone again.
SOLIS: Aft shields weakened. Whatever they're using, our shields can't stand up to it much longer.
LOGAN (voiceover): This is Chief Engineer Logan. Are we breaking orbit? I need to know now. Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant La Forge in command. I am unable to beam up the away team due to an unseen assailant attacking the ship. To make matters worse, Chief Engineer Logan is on his way to the Bridge, and he's not paying a courtesy call.

[Bridge]
LOGAN: Why are we still in orbit? We're taking a beating.
LAFORGE: We've got to hold out as long as we can. Now, if we can disable our attacker, if only for a few seconds, we can drop our shields and beam the away team back aboard.
LOGAN: If we follow that plan, we'll lose the Enterprise. In view of the present crisis, I believe you should relinquish command to me.
LAFORGE: No.
LOGAN: I outrank you.
LAFORGE: Mister Logan, I'm in command.
LOGAN: The Captain did not anticipate the Enterprise would come under attack. If he had, would he have left the Bridge to you?
LAFORGE: If he had, he wouldn't have left the ship.
T'SU: Picking up an object to starboard, sir, heading toward us.
LAFORGE: Lock phasers on that thing and fire the moment it's in range.
WORF: Locking in. The object has vanished.
WORF: Phaser lock lost.
T'SU: Starboard shields weakened.
WORF: It's cloaked itself.
LOGAN: You can't fight this thing and win. We've got to break orbit now.
LAFORGE: Worf, analyze its firing pattern. Maybe we can anticipate its location.
WORF: Aye. Solis, correlate the trajectory of the energy bolts with the attack path. I'll compute the optimum spread of phasers and photon torpedoes to hit it.
LAFORGE: Right.
LOGAN: Lieutenant La Forge. Geordi. I know you want to do what's best for the Enterprise. So do I. Now the best thing
LAFORGE: The best thing, Mister Logan, is for this discussion to end and for you to return to your duties. Now, I'm in charge until relieved by Commander Riker or Captain Picard.
LOGAN: You're ignoring my greater rank and experience.
LAFORGE: Not at all. In fact, just to opposite. I'm counting on it. Now I need you to get back down to Engineering and get me every available scrap of emergency power you can. The more power we can channel to the shields, the longer we'll be able to hold out. Now, Mister Logan.
LAFORGE: Worf, have you got a lock on it yet?
WORF: It's impossible to be sure.

[Jungle]
TASHA: Maybe you should wait here while Data and I search for the Captain and Doctor Crusher.
RIKER: No, I'm a little groggy, but I'll be all right.
DATA: I am getting energy readings. Look out!
TASHA: We'll do it just like before.
TASHA: It's got a deflector shield.
DATA: The product continues to upgrade and improve.
TASHA: We'll concentrate our fire and try to collapse its shield. Commander, we'll need you too.
TASHA: Now! You're right, they keep getting better.
DATA: The weapons are appearing at intervals of precisely twelve minutes.
TASHA: Well this one took everything we had. I don't know how we'll handle the next one.
RIKER: We're not going to wait around. Let's find the rest of our team.

[Cavern]
PICARD: We seem to be in some kind of underground structure, but I don't see any. Hey, no, you don't. No time to sleep.
CRUSHER: I'm tired.
PICARD: Come on, stay with me. Come on now, stay awake. That's an order.
CRUSHER: I must have lost a lot of blood.
PICARD: I've stopped the bleeding.
CRUSHER: No, there's another wound. My leg.
PICARD: Not to worry, Everything is going to be fine. Now, this is going to hurt a bit.
CRUSHER: I've heard that before.
PICARD: Hey, hey, Doctor. Stay awake. Come on. There's a lot of blood. What do I do next? Doctor.
CRUSHER: The wound needs a clotting agent.
PICARD: I couldn't find your medical kit.
CRUSHER: Those roots. What are they?
PICARD: Roots? What, these?
CRUSHER: Break off a piece and taste it. Don't swallow it.
PICARD: Very bitter.
CRUSHER: Apply some to your hand. Is there a color change?
PICARD: It's turning yellowish.
CRUSHER: Good. Now, spread as much of it as you can onto the wound.
PICARD: Hey, hey, Doctor. Now, stay awake. You've got to help me. I need your help. All right, now listen. Your patient has lost a great deal of blood from multiple lacerations.
CRUSHER: The patient's going into shock.
PICARD: So what do I do?
CRUSHER: Elevate the legs and try to keep her warm.
PICARD: Good. All right. Stay with me, Doctor. Keep talking.
CRUSHER: You didn't happen to bring a blanket with you, did you?
PICARD: No. I'm going to look for a way out. Now, you keep up your end. Stay awake.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: All right, I know it's risky, but a shot in the dark is better than nothing. Let's see if we can get lucky.
T'SU: I can't seem to pin down the pattern.
LAFORGE: There.
T'SU: Sorry, sir, I should have seen that.
LAFORGE: That's all right, you're doing fine.
WORF: Program laid in. Phasers and photon torpedoes ready.
LAFORGE: Okay. Mister Solis, bring her about to two three mark one eight five.
SOLIS: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Fire! Now!
WORF: Phasers and photons firing. We missed.
T'SU: Number four shield buckling. Number three shield nearing failure.
LOGAN (voiceover): Bridge, this is Engineering. I can't hold this power level much longer. You've got to do something.
T'SU: Backup systems are overloaded. Backup systems failing.
LOGAN (voiceover): La Forge, this is Logan. Tell me something.
LAFORGE: Mister Logan, report to the Bridge.
LOGAN (voiceover): On my way.
WORF: Deflectors are breaking down. We have less than one minute of reserve.
LAFORGE: We are getting out of here. Lieutenant Solis, set course three one five mark zero, zero seven.
SOLIS: Course set.
LOGAN: You are leaving them on the planet.
LAFORGE: Speed warp five.
SOLIS: Warp five. Aye.
LAFORGE: Engage. Hold course and speed for twenty eight seconds, then come to a full stop. Mister Logan, had we stayed, we would have been destroyed. Now, there are over a thousand people on this ship. I have a responsibility to them.
LOGAN: What about your responsibility to Captain Picard and the members of the away team?
LAFORGE: I have a responsibility to them as well. Mister Logan, you are going to take command of the Saucer Section. Backup crew, report to the main Bridge.
LOGAN: You're going to separate?
LAFORGE: Yes, and I want you to take the saucer section and proceed immediately to Starbase one zero three.
LOGAN: You can't fight what you can't see, and you still won't be able to see that thing.
LAFORGE: Maybe we won't have to.
LOGAN: Risky.
LAFORGE: Yes. That's why we're going to separate. Worf, Solis, T'Su. Report to the Battle Bridge. I'll join you in a moment.
WORF: Ensign, secure connector levels.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: Come in.
TROI: Lieutenant, I need to speak to you.
LAFORGE: Counselor, we're a few minutes away from separating the battle section. I don't have a lot of time.
TROI: I know, but as Counselor I have a duty to evaluate the emotional fitness of the crew.
LAFORGE: And you sense I'm nervous. Well, you're right. Counselor, deep down I'm shaking. I'm about to take this ship into battle, and there's a good chance she'll be blasted out of the sky. I'm taking a huge risk here, and there are a lot of lives at stake. So, yeah, I'm nervous. Did you expect otherwise?
TROI: Not at all. You're under tremendous pressure, more than you've ever experienced.
LAFORGE: You think I'm about to crack?
TROI: On the contrary. You should be proud of the way you're handling command. You've kept a cool head, taken charge, and made some very difficult decisions.
LAFORGE: Then what did you want to see me about?
SOLIS (voiceover): Lieutenant La Forge. Battle bridge is manned and ready. However, deflectors have not yet returned to full efficiency.
LAFORGE: Let's get them there, Mister Solis.
SOLIS (voiceover): Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I'll join you shortly. La Forge out.
TROI: Did you hear the uneasiness in his voice?
LAFORGE: Solis is doing a fine job.
TROI: Yes, but he isn't handling the stress as well as you are. Both he and Ensign T'Su are very young.
LAFORGE: No, wait. They're good officers.
TROI: Yes, but they lack battle experience. They're worried about making mistakes, and they need some encouragement.
LAFORGE: What do I do?
TROI: Just remember it's you they draw strength from. They look to you for guidance and for leadership. Help them. Show confidence in them.
LAFORGE: Like Captain Picard showed confidence in me. Right. I understand. Thanks, Counselor.

[Battle bridge]
LAFORGE: Prepare to initiate separation sequence.
T'SU: All decks report ready.
LAFORGE: On my mark. Now.
COMPUTER: Main latch bags to zero. Main latch retraction one to one eight, initiate. Static charge compensate.
WORF: Separation complete.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Solis, lay in a reciprocal course for Minos, warp five.
SOLIS: Course set.
LAFORGE: On my mark. Engage.

[Cavern]
PICARD: We seem to be pretty well sealed in, Doctor.
CRUSHER: No exits?
PICARD: None that I can see.
CRUSHER: If you find one, go.
PICARD: Tired of my company already? Beverly. Beverly!
CRUSHER: I'm tired. I need to sleep. Woke up too early.
PICARD: Talk to me, stay awake. Tell me something. Tell me about those roots. How did you know their medicinal values?
CRUSHER: My grandmother.
PICARD: Your grandmother was a doctor?
CRUSHER: No.
PICARD: Oh. She was a botanist, then?
CRUSHER: No. She helped to colonize Arveda Three.
PICARD: Arveda Three? That's such a tragedy. Did she survive?
CRUSHER: Yes. Once the medical supplies had run out, she had to use what was at hand. So she learned all about roots and herbs, and then taught it to me.
PICARD: You were part of that colony. I didn't know that. But then there must be a lot of things about you that I don't know.
CRUSHER: Quite a few.
PICARD: What? Now just a minute. Here's something odd. It's glowing.
CRUSHER: What is it?
PICARD: I don't know. It's covered up. I'm just clearing away the dirt. It's a viewscreen. It seems to still be operative.
PICARD: It's a tracking device of some kind.
CRUSHER: Tracking what?
PICARD: There are three moving indicators. Possibly the away team.
SALESMAN: Beautiful, isn't it? It's the centerpiece of the whole unit.
CRUSHER: Who's that?
PICARD: A projection. It's the automated salesman who greeted us on the Enterprise. What unit?
SALESMAN: Why, the Echo Papa Six Oh Seven. Our proudest achievement. The ultimate in weapons system technology.
PICARD: Is that what's behind the attack on my people?
SALESMAN: Impressive demonstration, isn't it?
PICARD: Demonstration? It tried to kill us.
SALESMAN: Versatile, powerful, and easy to use. The Six Oh Seven does it all. Its various modules can gather information, neutralize ground personnel, even destroy enemy space vessels.
PICARD: The Enterprise. Is one of those things after my ship? Tell me.
SALESMAN: Of course I can tell you. I am programmed to answer any and all questions about the unit. I can talk terms, arrange for delivery, whatever you need.
CRUSHER: It doesn't understand anything other than what it's peddling.
SALESMAN: The Six Oh Seven represents the state of the art in dynamic, adaptive design. It learns from each encounter, and improves itself.
PICARD: So what went wrong? Where are it's creators? Where are the people of Minos?
SALESMAN: Once unleashed, the unit is invincible. The perfect killing system.
PICARD: Too perfect. You poor fools, your own creation destroyed you. What was that noise?
SALESMAN: The unit has analyzed its last attack and constructed a new, stronger, deadlier weapon. In a moment, it will launch that weapon against the targets on the surface.
PICARD: Abort it!
SALESMAN: Why would I want to do that? It can't demonstrate its abilities unless we let it leave the nest.

[Planet surface]
DATA: They are down there, sir.
RIKER: Let's clear some of that away.
TASHA: If Data's calculations are correct, the next one should show itself in two minutes.
RIKER: Captain!

[Cavern]
RIKER (voiceover): Can you hear me?
PICARD: Yes, we're here!
RIKER: Are you all right?
PICARD: Doctor Crusher is seriously hurt. We can't contact the Enterprise. The communicators are out.
RIKER: Yes, our communicators are out too.
PICARD: Those devices are part of a system located down here. Another one is about to be released. Watch yourselves.
TASHA: We know, Captain.
RIKER: It's too far down there. There's nothing to hold on to. No way to climb down.

[Planet surface]
TASHA: I'm surprised either of them survived.
DATA: I can do it, Commander.
RIKER: How?
DATA: Jump.
RIKER: Data, it's over ten meters.
DATA: Eleven point seven five, sir.
TASHA: Data, you may be sturdy, but you're not indestructible.
DATA: I believe I can safely traverse the distance.
RIKER: Captain, Data's going down to join you down there. Be my guest.

[Cavern]
PICARD: Data.
DATA: At your service, Captain.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: We'd better find a defensive position. If Data's right
RIKER: He usually is.
TASHA: We're going to have company any minute now, and this time I don't know how we're going to stop it. Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant La Forge in command of the star drive section. After separating from the saucer, we have returned to Minos to rescue the away team. Unfortunately, I have only one option left, and it's a long shot.

[Battle Bridge]
T'SU: Shields and deflectors are up.
LAFORGE: Ensign T'Su, when I order the shields down, you have one responsibility. Locate the away team and get them up here. You may only have a few seconds.
SOLIS: Approaching the planet, sir.
LAFORGE: Ride's going to get a little bumpy. Things are going to happen fast. Just keep alert, stay calm. Let's focus on what we're doing. You know your jobs. You've been trained, you've been tested. You've earned the right to sit in those chairs.

[Cavern]
PICARD: That sound again.
DATA: Another weapon has been launched, sir.
PICARD: We've got to find some way to stop this system.
DATA: I would need to see the program schematic.
SALESMAN: You've got it.
PICARD: Is it possible to re-adjust the targeting sequence?
SALESMAN: Absolutely. It wouldn't be much good without it.
PICARD: Data, assign it a neutral target.
DATA: The target must be specific, sir.
PICARD: Itself, then. Itself or it's own power source.
DATA: The force of that explosion would destroy this cavern and everyone on the surface.
SALESMAN: Watch now. This is the fourth and final projectile. The Echo Papa series Six Oh Seven is about to complete this phase of its mission.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: We could split up.
RIKER: What good would that do?
TASHA: Confuse it, delay it. Something.
RIKER: It would still get us. It would just take a little longer.
TASHA: It might give one of us long enough to get out of range.
RIKER: Out of range?
TASHA: Forget I said it. These devices wiped out an entire planet. I don't think it has a range.
RIKER: Then what does that leave us? Right. That's what I thought.
TASHA: On the other hand, we could look for deeper cover.
RIKER: You got any ideas?
TASHA: None.

[Cavern]
PICARD: Give me some options, Data, quickly.
CRUSHER: Why don't you just shut it off?
PICARD: Is that possible?
CRUSHER: Why not? It's a machine, isn't it?
PICARD: Shut it off.
SALESMAN: Why? You haven't seen half of what this beauty can do.
PICARD: We've seen enough.
SALESMAN: Does that mean you're going to buy it?
PICARD: Yes. Yes, we've seen enough. You've made a sale.
SALESMAN: You won't be sorry.
PICARD: Good. Now end the demonstration.
SALESMAN: Done.

[Planet Surface]
PICARD (voiceover): Number One!
RIKER: Right here. That was close.

[Cavern]
PICARD: La Forge, everything's alright. We've neutralized it.

[Battle Bridge]
LAFORGE: It's great to hear your voice, Captain. We're a little busy right now. I'll get right back to you.
WORF: Phasers at full readiness.
LAFORGE: Keep those shields at full power. Ahead one quarter, heading two five mark three zero zero.
SOLIS: Sir, that heading will take us further into the planet's atmosphere.
LAFORGE: That's correct. We're going to lose some maneuverability, so keep a firm hand on the helm.
SOLIS: Aye, sir.
WORF: You hope our attacker will follow us into the atmosphere.
LAFORGE: I'm counting on it. Lian, scan for any air disruption or vortex. Cloak or no cloak, we'll spot it by its turbulence. Worf, how fast can you get a phaser lock?
WORF: Fast.
T'SU: Hull temperature one thousand degrees and rising.
LAFORGE: Emergency power to deflectors.
SOLIS: Velocity increasing.
LAFORGE: Steady as she goes.
T'SU: Hull temperature twenty five hundred degrees.
WORF: Deflectors nearing overload.
SOLIS: Sir, helm growing unresponsive.
LAFORGE: Can you compensate?
SOLIS: Yes, sir, I can.
T'SU: Hull three thousand degrees.
LAFORGE: Maintain heading.
WORF: We're about to lose number four deflector.
T'SU: Thirty three hundred degrees.
WORF: Deflector four is now inoperative.
T'SU: Turbulence to starboard!
LAFORGE: There he is!
T'SU: Scanners locked.
WORF: Weapons locked.
LAFORGE: Fire!
WORF: Got him!
LAFORGE: Shields down.
T'SU: Locked onto away team. Beaming them home now.
LAFORGE: Come to four zero mark six five, ahead one third, and assume a standard orbit.
SOLIS: Standard orbit. Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Relinquishing command, Captain.
PICARD: As you were, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, when I left this ship, it was in one piece. I would appreciate your returning it in the same condition. Do you concur, Number One?
RIKER: Absolutely, sir.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Solis, plot a course to rendezvous with the saucer section.
T'SU: Sickbay reports Doctor Crusher's going to be fine.
SOLIS: Course plotted and laid in.
LAFORGE: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41601.3. We are crossing through the Zed Lapis sector, where we will rendezvous with shuttlecraft thirteen, carrying Deanna Troi, who is returning from a conference. Because Engineering is involved in preventive maintenance on our dilithium crystals, we are presently traveling on impulse power.

[Bridge]
WORF: Routine deep sensor probe indicates no obstacles or vessels within a range of three light years.
TASHA: Confirm.
WORF: The martial arts competition is in three days. Are you prepared?
TASHA: I will be if you'll meet me on the holodeck later. I need your help on the Mishiama wrist-lock and break. If it works on you, I can use it on anyone.
WORF: A valid assumption. Who is your first competitor?
TASHA: Science Officer Swenson.
WORF: You will defeat him easily.
TASHA: I'm more concerned with Lieutenant Minnerly's kick boxing.
WORF: You are favored in the ship's pool.
TASHA: You bet on me?
WORF: A sure thing.
LAFORGE: Captain, estimated rendezvous with the shuttle in one hour and ten minutes.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: It'll be good to have Counselor Troi back, won't it, Number One?
RIKER: It certainly will.
WORF: Sir, I'm receiving an emergency transmission from the shuttle.
PICARD: On main viewer.
TASHA: I can't, sir. We're receiving audio only.
PICARD: Open the frequency.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PRIETO (voiceover): What a jolt!
RIKER: Position report.
PRIETO (voiceover): Sir, I have an onboard systems failure. You'll have to tell me where I am.
LAFORGE: I read your coordinates at three seven zero point two three six. Confirm.
PRIETO (voiceover): I can't confirm. My instruments are haywire.
PICARD: Lieutenant Prieto, is Counselor Troi all right?
PRIETO (voiceover): Yes, sir. Just a little shaken. We're being buffeted a bit. Losing more power! My flight control computer's fried.
PICARD: Main Engineering.
LYNCH (voiceover): Lieutenant Commander Leland T. Lynch here, sir.
PICARD: How long before we can return to warp power?

[Engineering]
LYNCH: Captain, I'm in the middle of realigning the dilithium crystals.
PICARD (voiceover): There is an emergency. We need warp drive. How long?
LYNCH: Twenty minutes. Maybe more.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We don't have it, Mister Lynch.
LYNCH (voiceover): I'll align it by hand.
PICARD: Whatever it takes.
LYNCH (voiceover): Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Shuttle, this is the Enterprise. Your coordinates now read two three seven point one zero one. Ben, you're dangerously close to a planet.
PRIETO (voiceover): I can see it.
DATA: The planet is Vagra Two, sir, in the Zed Lapis sector. Uninhabited.
PICARD: Lieutenant, report!
TROI (voiceover): This is Counselor Troi. I'll relay, sir. The pilot is busy. We've lost most of our impulse power.
PICARD: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]
LYNCH: Working on it, Captain. Three minutes.

[Bridge]
LYNCH (voiceover): But there are no guarantees.
PRIETO (voiceover): Captain, we're out of control. We're caught in the planet's gravity.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've lost all contact with shuttlecraft thirteen, and can only assume they've crash-landed on Vagra Two. Meanwhile, main Engineering is trying to return us to warp power.

[Engineering]
LYNCH: Forget the final check. Initiate start-up sequence.
COMPUTER: Beginning check list.
LYNCH: Override. We are going directly to start-up.
COMPUTER: That procedure is not recommended.
LYNCH: Understood. Now. Prime matter-antimatter injectors. Set ratio at twenty-five to one
COMPUTER: Ratio set.
LYNCH: Power engine core. Inject reactants.

[Bridge]
LYNCH (voiceover): Leland T. Lynch here, Captain. We now have minimum warp drive.
LAFORGE: Course plotted and set for Vagra Two.
PICARD: Warp eight.
LYNCH (voiceover): I said minimum warp drive, Captain.
PICARD: You heard the order, Mister Lynch. Make it so.
LYNCH (voiceover): Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Approaching Vagra Two, Captain.
DATA: Strange, sir. There's no emergency signal from the shuttle as yet.
PICARD: What is this place, Mister Data?
DATA: There is little information in the library computer other than the fact of its existence. Our sensor show no signs of life forms, virtually no vegetation.
RIKER: Atmosphere?
DATA: Minimum for our needs, sir.
PICARD: Standard orbit.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Standard orbit.
WORF: I've located the shuttle.
PICARD: Life signs?
WORF: Not yet, sir. Still probing. It appears to be buried under a lot of debris. I may have something, sir. Faint life signs. Very faint.
RIKER: How many?
WORF: There's no way of telling from here.
PICARD: Data, can we beam up the injured?
DATA: No, sir. Our sensors are not fully penetrating whatever the debris is.
PICARD: That's very unusual.
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain.
PICARD: Number One, prepare your away team.
RIKER: Right away. Data, Yar.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher, have you been monitoring all this?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Yes. I'll meet the away team in transporter room four.

[Planet surface]
CRUSHER: Let's go. The life signs are weak.
RIKER: What is this?
TASHA: No idea. We'll go around, just to be on the safe side.
TASHA: Let's try the other way.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Riker. We've got a problem.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What kind of problem, Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): I'm not sure yet. There appears to be some kind of a slick blocking our path. Will keep you apprised.
PICARD: Maintain an open frequency.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Inconclusive, sir. I cannot tell you what it is, but I can tell you what it is not.
RIKER: Explain.
DATA: There is no evidence of neural or circulatory systems. No internal organs. Cellular structure unknown. It does not have any proteins which are known to us.
CRUSHER: It's narrower over here. We can get over it.
RIKER: How is it moving, Data?
DATA: I do not know, sir. It does not appear to have a skeletal framework or musculature.
RIKER: Then what's causing it to move?
DATA: It appears to be following us, sir.
RIKER: No sign of intelligence, no brain as we know it, yet evidence of thought, Mister Data?
DATA: Insufficient information, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is it a life form, Data?
DATA (voiceover): Again, insufficient information, sir.
PICARD: Theorize.

[Planet surface]
DATA: It is possible.
ARMUS: Very good, tin man.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One? What are you seeing?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Trouble.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. While on a mission to rescue survivors from an unexplained shuttle crash, the away team has encountered a strange creature which seems able to assume different forms, including one which resembles humanoid.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Easy, Number One. Let's find out what it is we're dealing with.
RIKER (voiceover): Agreed, Captain.
PICARD: Number One, I don't believe that the location of the crash and the proximity of the creature is a coincidence.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: I am Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise.
ARMUS: I am Armus. Why are you here?
RIKER: We mean you no harm. We have injured crewmen in the shuttlecraft. We need to get to them. May we pass?
ARMUS: You haven't given me a good enough reason.
RIKER: Preserving life, all life, is very important to us.
ARMUS: Why?
RIKER: We believe everything in the universe has a right to exist.
ARMUS: An interesting notion which I do not share. You may now leave, if you wish.
TASHA: We're not going without our shuttle crew.
ARMUS: I warn you.
TASHA: Enough! We have people who need attention. We won't hurt you, but we must help them.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One!
RIKER: The creature attacked us. Lieutenant Yar is down.
DATA: It seems to feed on our phaser energy.
RIKER: We had no effect on it.
PICARD: What's Lieutenant Yar's condition? Doctor Crusher, report!
CRUSHER: She's dead.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, get them up, now.

[Transporter Room]
CRUSHER: I need her in Sickbay now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go to Yellow Alert, Lieutenant Worf. I'll be in Sickbay.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Status, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Unchanged.
PICARD: Can you bring her back?
CRUSHER: We'll see. Neural stimulator.
NURSE: Neural stimulator locked in.
CRUSHER: Interlock current feeds. Set sensitivity factor to four point four.
NURSE: Affirmative.
NURSE 2: Monitoring two point three, one point eight.
RIKER: You did it.
CRUSHER: No. I've got her on full support. There is no independent brain function.
NURSE 2: Current feeds operating.
NURSE: She's not responding, Doctor. Her synaptic network is breaking down.
CRUSHER: Inject norep.
NURSE: Neurons are beginning to depolarize.
CRUSHER: Let's go for direct reticular stimulation.
NURSE: Direct?
CRUSHER: Do it! Increase to seventy microvolts.
CRUSHER: Eighty five microvolts. Again. Ninety. Again. Again. She's gone.
PICARD: Gone?
CRUSHER: There was too much synaptic damage. That thing just sucked the life right out of her. There's nothing I can do.

[Shuttlecraft]
ARMUS (voiceover): Your friends have deserted you. They're not coming back.
TROI: You're wrong.
ARMUS (voiceover): I killed one of them.
TROI: Yes. I know.
ARMUS (voiceover): How could you be in there and know that?
TROI: I felt her die.
ARMUS (voiceover): Do you want to know why I killed her?
TROI: Your answer would be meaningless. That act had no reason.
ARMUS (voiceover): Exactly. It had no meaning. I did it because I wanted to. It amused me.
TROI: No. You thought it would amuse you, but it didn't. You felt no satisfaction.
ARMUS (voiceover): No. It was too easy.
TROI: You wanted her to suffer. You have a great need.
ARMUS (voiceover): I need nothing.
TROI: Liar. End this. Let us go.
ARMUS (voiceover): Not yet.
TROI: They won't give you what you want.
ARMUS (voiceover): And what is that?
TROI: To break their spirit.
ARMUS (voiceover): Oh, is that what I want? If breaking their spirit will amuse me, then that's what I will have.
TROI: Never.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: She didn't do anything. Her phaser was lowered.
DATA: She only wanted to get to Troi and Lieutenant Prieto.
RIKER: There was nothing provocative about what she did.
CRUSHER: She was killed in a brutal, senseless act.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar's death is very painful for all of us. We will have to deal with it as best we can for now. Until the shuttle crew is safely beamed aboard this ship, our feelings will have to wait. Is that understood? Lieutenant Worf, you are now Acting Chief of Security.
WORF: I will do my best, sir.
PICARD: Doctor, what is the state of the shuttle crew?
CRUSHER: We're still receiving faint life signs, but the sensor readings are fluctuating. They may not be accurate.
DATA: Armus is capable of creating undefined forcefields. In effect, we are powerless to communicate or use the transporter unless it allows it.
PICARD: A creature against whom we seem to have no defense. Number One?
RIKER: It's down on that planet waiting for us to come back. It killed Tasha and it could have killed us, but it didn't. Deanna and Ben are alive for a reason, and it knows we're not going anywhere as long as they're still alive.
PICARD: Are you saying it's attack on Yar was not arbitrary but part of some tactic?
RIKER: The only way to find out is to go back down.
LAFORGE: Commander, I may be able to see something in the creature which might be helpful.
PICARD: Agreed. Prepare your away team, Number One.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: I will remain on the ship. The object here is not to engage the creature in battle. The goal is the safe return of Counselor Troi and Lieutenant Prieto. I can best accomplish this at the Tactical Station.
PICARD: Very good. Number One?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One.
RIKER: We're approaching the shuttlecraft. The creature is covering it.

[Shuttlecraft]
ARMUS (voiceover): I lied to you. They came back.
TROI: Let me talk with them.
ARMUS (voiceover): No.
TROI: Why? Does the thought of my having contact with them make you uneasy?
ARMUS (voiceover): No. Not being able to contact you, not knowing if you are alive, makes them uneasy. Can't you feel how worried they are?
TROI: Yes. Yes, they are worried.
ARMUS (voiceover): They care for you. You must be very special.
TROI: We are members of a community. We all care for one another.
ARMUS (voiceover): Equally?
TROI: You were really surprised they came back.
ARMUS (voiceover): Yes.
TROI: Why? Because the others did not?
ARMUS (voiceover): What others?
TROI: You can't hide the emptiness from me. The others. The ones who hurt you. Who left you alone, rejected. The ones who make you so angry.
ARMUS (voiceover): What do you know of them?
TROI: Only what you tell me.
ARMUS (voiceover): I will tell you nothing.
TROI: Not now. But soon.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, look at this. The force of the energy field around the shuttlecraft decreased for a few moments when the creature was draped over it.
PICARD: But not low enough to beam them out.
WORF: Almost.
WESLEY: It's approaching the away team now, and the energy field over the shuttlecraft is back to full intensity.
PICARD: Chart it. I want to see if there's a pattern.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
ARMUS: She said you'd be back.
RIKER: Then she is alive.
ARMUS: For now. Why have you returned?
RIKER: We have no choice. We're here to negotiate for our team. What do you want?
ARMUS: Maybe I want nothing.
RIKER: Then you would have killed all of us.
ARMUS: I still might.
RIKER: What do you want? Tell me. Maybe we can reach an accommodation.
ARMUS: If I tell you, will you give it to me?
RIKER: I might. It depends.
CRUSHER: I am a doctor. I need to treat our injured friends.
ARMUS: Say please.
CRUSHER: Please.
ARMUS: You ask nicely. I will allow it. Wait! I've changed my mind. Talk to her from here.
CRUSHER: How? Troi, can you hear me?

[Shuttlecraft]
BEVERLY (voiceover): Deanna, are you all right?
TROI: Beverly?

[Planet surface]
TROI (voiceover): I can hear you.
CRUSHER: Are you all right?

[Shuttlecraft]
TROI: Yes.

[Planet surface]
CRUSHER: We've encountered some difficulty.

[Shuttlecraft]
TROI: I know.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: She needs our help.
ARMUS: So what.
CRUSHER: Our friends are suffering only a few meters away, yet you block our path. Why?
ARMUS: You are all ungrateful.
CRUSHER: What is he made of?
DATA: It did not register on the tricorder.
ARMUS: It? Does that mean I am not alive?
DATA: No. Clearly you are some kind of intelligent form.
ARMUS: But you said I did not register on your instrument. Perhaps your instruments are useless.
ARMUS: Don't help him.
RIKER: Data.
DATA: Half meter to the right, Geordi.
ARMUS: Aren't you going to lead him to his sight again, robot?
DATA: No. You will just move it again, and I will not help you hurt him.
ARMUS: Then give it to him. I will find something else to amuse me.

[Shuttlecraft]
ARMUS (voiceover): You said they wouldn't amuse me. You were right.
TROI: And the emptiness remains. You sound so alone.
ARMUS (voiceover): I am alone.
TROI: Abandoned. Who deserted you?
ARMUS (voiceover): Creatures whose beauty now dazzles all who see them. They would not exist without me.
TROI: You were together?
ARMUS (voiceover): They perfected a means of bringing to the surface all that was evil and negative within. Erupting, spreading, connecting. In time it formed second skin, dank and vile.
TROI: You.
ARMUS (voiceover): Yes.
TROI: They discarded you and left.
ARMUS (voiceover): And here I am.
TROI: You have my pity.
ARMUS (voiceover): Your pity? Save that for yourself.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Help! Data, something's got me!
ARMUS: Touch him and he dies.
RIKER: No! No, don't!
DATA: Enterprise?

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
PICARD: I'm beaming you up.

[Planet surface]
ARMUS: If any of you leave now, he dies.

[Bridge]
ARMUS (voiceover): And so do the survivors of the crash.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. There is grave danger to the crew on Vagra Two. My first officer is missing, attacked by this entity known as Armus.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, perhaps you should look at this. We have the chart of the energy field surrounding the shuttle.
PICARD: There are a great deal of fluctuations.
WORF: Yes, but there is a pattern. Here is when it killed Lieutenant Yar, and here is when it absorbed Commander Riker.
PICARD: And here, here, where the energy is lowest?
WORF: Both times it had enveloped the shuttle.
PICARD: It has something to do with Counselor Troi. Somehow when it's dealing with her, the energy field is affected. I want to talk to her. I'm going to beam down. Lieutenant Worf, you have the conn.

[Shuttlecraft]
TROI: Imzadi! No! Please, stop hurting him!
ARMUS (voiceover): He resists. If he would give himself over, the pain would diminish. He struggles. You should feel his strength.
TROI: I can.
ARMUS (voiceover): Should I let him go?
TROI: You only ask to torment me.
ARMUS (voiceover): Perhaps.
TROI: How should I answer? What can I offer except myself?
ARMUS (voiceover): And would you give yourself for him? Would you give that much?
TROI: Yes. Without hesitation.
ARMUS (voiceover): Just for him?
TROI: No, not just for him. I would do the same for any of the others. Armus, you have me. Let them go.
ARMUS (voiceover): Perhaps. Ah, another has arrived.

[Planet surface]
ARMUS: You are the one in charge?
PICARD: Is Commander Riker alive?
ARMUS: Answer, Tin Man.
DATA: I would guess that death is no longer sufficient entertainment to alleviate its boredom. Therefore, Commander Riker is alive.
ARMUS: Maybe. Don't you want to ask me what I want?
PICARD: No.
ARMUS: Not even to protect your own existence?
PICARD: I want to see my people in the shuttle.
ARMUS: Entertain me. Then I will do it myself. You, Tin Man.
ARMUS: Now tell me, how would you feel if you were the instrument of death for your leader?
PICARD: Don't struggle, Data.
DATA: I have no control over what you do with the phaser. Therefore, I would not be the instrument of his death.
ARMUS: Perhaps killing the Doctor would engender more feeling?
DATA: No, the control is still yours.
ARMUS: And what about you, Doctor? Are you ready to die? Tell me you are not afraid.
CRUSHER: I am afraid.
ARMUS: Beg me to spare you.
CRUSHER: No.
ARMUS: One of you is going to die, and you, Doctor, get to choose. You don't like that, do you?
CRUSHER: Then I choose myself.
ARMUS: No. You are going to live. One of them dies.
ARMUS: Maybe this one. Though I would not call it death, since he is only a device. Tell me, Tin Man, how does it feel to face your own extinction.
DATA: Curious. You are capable of great sadism and cruelty. Interesting. No redeeming qualities.
ARMUS: So what do you think?
DATA: I think you should be destroyed.
ARMUS: A moral judgment from a machine.
PICARD: Data. Armus, we're finished dealing with you.
ARMUS: I have your man in here, and the others in the shuttle.
PICARD: It doesn't matter. We will no longer be a source of amusement.
ARMUS: I can kill them.
PICARD: Yes. You can. But only I can command them. They follow my orders.
ARMUS: Have them amuse me.
PICARD: Only if you let me see my people on the shuttle first. I must see them.
ARMUS: Not possible.
PICARD: Then our business with you is concluded.
ARMUS: And you claim you care about your comrades.
PICARD: I care. Which is why I must see them.
ARMUS: You want to see your people? Then, here. Look at this one.
CRUSHER: He's alive. Don't move.
PICARD: Is he all right?
CRUSHER: All signs show normal.
RIKER: So much frustration. It had to get rid of me.
PICARD: Now, let me see the others.
ARMUS: No.
PICARD: I will not allow my people to entertain you until you do.
ARMUS: They are incapable of entertaining me.
PICARD: I want the four of you out of here. Enterprise, beam up the away team immediately.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: They're no longer involved. This is between you and me.
ARMUS: They may leave.
PICARD: Now.
ARMUS: I want to leave this place.
PICARD: You want me to give you transportation?
ARMUS: For which I will trade you lives.
PICARD: I must see my people in the shuttle.
ARMUS: Will you give me what I want?
PICARD: I have the means. But first I must see my people.
ARMUS: If you must.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Troi, are you all right?
TROI: Yes, but Ben is not.
PICARD: He's alive.
TROI: Were you able to help Tasha?
PICARD: No. Troi. Troi, we must talk. I believe it's possible to outmaneuver this creature, and beam you and Ben back up to the ship. We've been monitoring the energy field that surrounds the shuttle. When the creature is here, the field weakens. Do you know why?
TROI: The creature is filled with rage. Undirected, unfocused rage. When he confronts it, his guard goes down because he's feeling it instead of suppressing it. Acknowledging his needs makes him vulnerable.
PICARD: What caused the rage?
TROI: He was left here. Abandoned.

[Bridge]
WORF: The forcefield will have to drop below two point seven before we can beam them up.

[Planet surface]
ARMUS: Satisfied?
PICARD: Yes.
ARMUS: Then can we leave?
PICARD: Where do you want to go? Do you want to try to find those who left you here?
ARMUS: She told you about them.
PICARD: How long have you been here?
ARMUS: Since they left. A very long time.
PICARD: A long time to be alone.
ARMUS: Save your compassion. It's revolting. You offer it like a prize when in fact it's an insult.
PICARD: Because you feel unworthy.
ARMUS: You overrate your gift. You humans are puny, weak.
PICARD: But our spirit, it is indomitable.
ARMUS: And still you die from a flake of my power.
PICARD: A great poet once said, 'all spirits are enslaved that serve things evil'.
ARMUS: You do not understand. I do not serve things evil. I am evil.
PICARD: Oh, no, you are not.
ARMUS: I am a skin of evil left here by a race of Titans who believed if they rid themselves of me, they would free the bonds of destructiveness.
PICARD: Yes. So here you are. Feeding on your own loneliness. Consumed by your own pain. Believing your own lies.

[Bridge]
WORF: Set the computer. When the energy level reaches two point six point two zero five, automatically beam up Troi and Prieto. We'll do a parallel transport on the Captain.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: You say you are true evil? Shall I tell you what true evil is? It is to submit to you. It is when we surrender our freedom, our dignity, instead of defying you.
ARMUS: I will kill you, and those in there.
PICARD: But you will still be here. In this place. For ever. Alone. Immortal.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Stand by for parallel transport.
WORF: The energy level has dropped to two point six point three.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: That's your real fear. Never to die. Never again to be united with those who left you here.

[Bridge]
WORF: Energy field is two point six. Computer beginning transport.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: I'm not taking you anywhere.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41602.1. The shuttlecraft has been destroyed to prevent any possibility of Armus leaving the planet. Vagra Two will be declared off limits. But the damage has been done. One of the saddest duties I've ever had to perform is now ahead of me.

[Holodeck - meadow]
PICARD: We are here together to honor our friend and comrade, Lieutenant Natasha Yar. Coming to terms with the loss of a colleague is perhaps the most difficult tasks we must face in the work we have chosen to pursue. We will all find time to grieve for her in the days that are ahead, but for now she has asked that we celebrate her life with this.
TASHA: Hello, my friends. You are here now watching this image of me because I have died. It probably happened while I was on duty, and quickly, which is what I expected. Never forget I died doing exactly what I chose to do. What I want you to know is how much I loved my life, and those of you who shared it with me. You are my family. You all know where I came from and what my life was like before. But Starfleet took that frightened, angry young girl and tempered her. I have been blessed with your friendship and your love. Will Riker, you are the best. You trusted me, you encouraged me, and most of all you made me laugh. Deanna, you are capable of so much love. You taught me without ever having to say a word. I realized I could be feminine without losing anything. Ah, Worf. We are so much alike, you and I. Both warriors, orphans who found ourselves this family. I hope I met death with my eyes wide open. Beverly. Your fierce devotion comes from within. It can't be diminished. From you, I have learned to strive for excellence, no matter what the personal cost. Wesley, I'm sorry I won't be able to see you grow into the exceptional man you'll be. But your kindness and innocence are ageless. Geordi, in those moments I felt the most despair, you took my hand and helped me to see things differently. You taught me to look beyond the moment. My friend Data. You see things with the wonder of a child, and that makes you more human than any of us. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. I wish I could say you've been like a father to me, but I've never had one, so I don't know what it feels like. But if there was someone in this universe I could choose to be like, someone who I would want to make proud of me, it's you. You who have the heart of an explorer and the soul of a poet. So, you'll understand when I say, death is that state in which one exists only in the memory of others. Which is why it is not an end. No goodbyes. Just good memories. Hailing frequencies closed, sir.
PICARD: Au revoir, Natasha. The gathering is concluded.
DATA: Sir, the purpose of this gathering confuses me.
PICARD: Oh? How so?
DATA: My thoughts are not for Tasha, but for myself. I keep thinking how empty it will feel without her presence. Did I miss the point?
PICARD: No, you didn't, Data. You got it.
PICARD (voiceover): All hands, this is the Captain. As you may know, the sun in the Delos system is undergoing large-scale magnetic field changes, producing violent, gigantic flares. Now, we shall be studying this star at close range. Even though we shall be running with full deflectors, the closeness of this event and its severity are going to create problems.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Intense magnetic fields have a disruptive effect on electrical systems. Therefore we can expect communications interruptions, as well as potential temporary loss of other systems. As a precaution, we are now going to Yellow Alert. Stay sharp, everyone.

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Attention all decks. Yellow Alert.
DATA (voiceover): Engineering, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Bring all systems online and direct full power to the shields.

[Bridge]
DATA: All sections secure, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge?
LAFORGE: Course is set, Captain.
PICARD: Half impulse.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir, one half impulse.
PICARD: On main viewer. Mask out the photosphere. Magnify. Quadrant one seven, magnification factor twelve.
RIKER: I've never seen anything like this before. The violence of these eruptions is awesome.
DATA: Captain, I'm reading an unusual number of sunspots and eruptive prominences, sir. The magnetic field is extremely irregular.
WESLEY: Captain, deflectors are being hit by a huge burst of X-rays.
WESLEY: Wow! Look. Captain, my console seems to be overloading.
WORF: The X-ray burst is disrupting systems, Captain. I'm adjusting deflectors to compensate.

[Engineering]
WORF (voiceover): Engineering, increase power to forward shields.
CREWWOMAN: Forward deflectors online, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status report.
WORF: All systems operational, sir.
TROI: Captain, the level of tension on the ship is mounting.
PICARD: Understandable. Mister Data?
DATA: If we are to investigate, sir, we must get closer.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, move us in closer. This is the Captain. We will be pushing the shields to the limit, but we are getting a splendid view of this phenomenon.
WORF: Captain, I have intercepted what appears to be a distress signal.
PICARD: Let me hear it.
T'JON (voiceover): This is T'Jon. I am on the Ornaran freighter . We have a serious problem here. Can't seem to fix it. We need help.
DATA: The transmission is coming from a freighter in orbit around the fourth planet in the system. However, the receiving station is on the third planet.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open.
PICARD: Unidentified freighter, this is the USS Enterprise. May we be of assistance?
T'JON (screen): Whoever you are, yes! I'm having trouble navigating. We can't maintain a steady course. Please help us if you can.
PICARD: Can't you enhance the frequency?
TASHA: Too much interference.
PICARD: Set course to intersect with the freighter. Warp two.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Maintain Yellow Alert.
T'JON (screen): I can't control the helm any longer. I'm losing orbit. We're heading into the atmosphere. Please, do something. We're going to burn up. We haven't much time.
WORF: It is a freighter, very old.
DATA: Captain, our sensors are being severely affected by the sun flares.
PICARD: Helm, take us in as close as possible to the freighter's orbit.
LAFORGE: Moving in, sir.
DATA: There are six life forms aboard the freighter, sir.
WORF: Captain, the freighter's orbit is decaying.
PICARD: How long before it loses integrity?
WORF: A matter of minutes.
PICARD: Unidentified freighter, this is the USS Enterprise.
T'JON (voiceover): Enterprise, this is the Ornaran freighter Sanction.
PICARD: Put this on the main viewer.
TASHA: The visual transmission is still breaking up.
PICARD: Freighter Sanction, this is the Enterprise. What is your situation?
VOICES (screen): Not so good. Helm isn't working right. What is the problem?
PICARD: This is the Enterprise. With all this interference it is difficult to copy your transmission. If you all talk at once it is almost impossible. Now, please say again. What is your situation?
T'JON (screen): I am T'Jon, Captain of the Sanction.
PICARD: At last. How can we help?
T'JON (screen): We have lost, I don't know, something. I am no longer able to maintain this orbit, nor am I able to use the main thrusters. It's all, you know, dead, I guess. It's all shut down?
PICARD: Well, that is a little vague. What is the computer analysis?
T'JON (screen): Well, the computer's not working very well.
PICARD: Data, can you tap into their computer and clarify the situation?
DATA: I will attempt it, sir.
TASHA: Captain, the tractor beam is available, if you want it.
RIKER: At least we can pull them out of orbit before they enter the atmosphere.
PICARD: Freighter, we're going to lock on the tractor beam and pull you out of orbit.
T'JON (screen): Hey, that's, that's great.
WORF: Captain, the freighter's orbit continues to deteriorate.
TASHA: The solar flares are interfering with the tractor beam, Captain. I can't lock on.
PICARD: Captain T'Jon, we are unable to attach our tractor beam because of the intense solar activity.
T'JON (screen): I understand. Thanks for trying.
DATA: Sir, I have determined what is malfunctioning on the freighter.
PICARD: Captain, we have analyzed your problem.
T'JON (screen): Great.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Your ship's design uses an electromagnetic coil to constrict the exhaust flow. That coil is misaligned.
T'JON (screen): Really?
PICARD: Do you have the necessary tools to realign the coil?
T'JON (screen): I don't think so.
LAFORGE: I believe, Captain, we can provide them with a temporary substitute. Our ship's stores contain a coil of the proper type.
RIKER: Can we beam one over?
TASHA: Yes.
PICARD: Captain, we're beaming over a replacement coil.
T'JON (screen): That's great. And that'll fix us up?
PICARD: Yes, once it's installed.
T'JON (screen): Right. And how do we do that?
PICARD: What is the matter with these people? How can he be Captain of that vessel and not understand its simplest function?
PICARD: Captain, how long have you been in command of this freighter?
T'JON (screen): Seven years. This is my twenty-sixth voyage to Brekka.
PICARD: And you don't know how to align a control coil?
T'JON (screen): It's never come up.
RIKER: Can anyone else over there do it?
T'JON (screen): Hold on. I'll ask. Sorry. Nobody here knows anything about it.
RIKER: I'd better get over with a team.
TASHA: Captain, I strongly recommend against anyone from this ship beaming over. The solar interference is too great.
WORF: The freighter has entered the planet's atmosphere. Disintegration is imminent.
RIKER: We're running out of options.
PICARD: Let's get them off there. T'Jon, stand by to beam over.
T'JON (screen): If you think that's best.
PICARD: Unless you have any other options, yes, I think that's best.
T'JON (screen): Whatever you say.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: I can't maintain a positive lock.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Unusual E-M burst, sir. Readings off scale.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Freighter Sanction, this is the Enterprise. We're having difficulty getting a fix.
TASHA: Have them go to their own transporter room. It will be tricky, but perhaps I can link the two transporters in series and get them over with the increased power.
RIKER: It's worth a try. Captain T'Jon go to your transporter room. Contact me from there.
T'JON (voiceover): Right, Enterprise. It's right next door. But if you can't get us with your transporter, what makes you think ours will do the job?
TASHA: I'm going to interconnect them.
T'JON (voiceover): I didn't know you could do that.
TASHA: Hurry! We're running out of time.
T'JON (voiceover): We're on our way.
TASHA: I don't think they're going to make it.
RIKER: Captain T'Jon doesn't sound like he cares one way or the other.
TASHA: Worf, how much time do we have?
WORF (voiceover): One minute, twenty eight seconds.
TASHA: Captain T'Jon, are you there?
T'JON (voiceover): We're in the transporter room.
TASHA: Great. Activate your transporter. Set coordinates nine seven zero three mark two six eight.
T'JON (voiceover): Did you say two eight six or eight eight six.
TASHA: Mark two six eight!
T'JON (voiceover): Got it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the hull temperature of the freighter is passing three thousand degrees.
PICARD: What's the hold up, Number One?

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We're establishing the link right now.
T'JON (voiceover): We're ready.
TASHA: Then all six of you, get on the transporter platform. On my signal, energize. I've got their initial transporter signal. Interlock complete. Energize on my mark. Four, three, two, one, energize.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One, did you get them off?
RIKER: No, sir. They stayed in the freighter

[Bridge]
RIKER: But they beamed over their cargo.
PICARD: Cargo? Are those people crazy? What could possibly be so important?
WORF: Sir, the freighter is disintegrating.
PICARD: Their lives are in danger and they're beaming over cargo? Number One, I don't understand these people.
LAFORGE: Captain, the freighter's hull temperature is approaching critical.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Unbelievable.
PICARD (voiceover): We're losing the freighter. Got to beam those people over now.
RIKER: Clear the cargo. Beam it to a hold.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Freighter Sanction, this is the Enterprise, Get to your transporter pad and. No, forget about that. Lock on to any life form you can find and get them over now.
TASHA: Trying, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The freighter is going down.
PICARD: Transporter Room. You're out of time.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Reading six life forms, but I can't get a solid lock.
RIKER: We have no choice. Energize. I thought you said there were six. Where are the other two?
TASHA: The lock didn't hold.
RIKER: Re-establish.
TASHA: It's too late.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One?

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Two are lost, sir. But we saved four. I'm Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. I'm sorry we were unable to rescue the other two. We did everything we could. If you had come instead of sending your cargo, you all would have made it.
T'JON: The cargo. Where is it?
ROMAS: You did save it, didn't you?
RIKER: Yes, we did. It's in one of our cargo holds. You act like it's more important than your comrades.
T'JON: The cargo. May we see it?
RIKER: Follow me.

[Cargo bay]
T'JON: Thank you. Thank you. We thought we had lost it.
SOBI: Careful with your choice of words, T'Jon. It's ours, not yours.
T'JON: We paid a fair price for it!
LANGOR: You offered a fair price. We have not received it.
ROMAS: You accepted our goods in trade!
SOBI: Then where are they? Tell me.
T'JON: That's not our problem.
LANGOR: No more than the barrel is your property. It's as simple as this. The goods were never delivered. They were destroyed with your ship.
SOBI: Hence the deal was incomplete. Hence possession of the felicium remains ours.
ROMAS: We need it.
SOBI: Commander, I request you transport my associate and myself down to Brekka, with our merchandise.
T'JON: Yes, get them out of here. But the barrel stays.
LANGOR: There's no reasoning with you.
SOBI: Langor, you expect too much from them. You always have, and you've always been disappointed. You didn't pay for it, therefore it's not yours.
T'JON: Damn you, Sobi.
TASHA: Stop this. Now!
RIKER: Security to cargo bay eleven.
TASHA: Behave yourselves, gentlemen.
TASHA: Escort our visitors to the observation lounge.
TASHA: A natural electrical charge?
RIKER: Formidable.
TASHA: Yes, and a difficult weapon to confiscate.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I have never seen humanoids with that power.
TASHA: Neither have I. I wonder how it evolved?
RIKER: I wonder if the strong magnetic field of their sun might have something to do with it.
TASHA: Could be. I wonder how much power our guests can produce?
RIKER: Or if they need to recharge?
TASHA: That's an interesting ability. The question is, how do I defend against it?
RIKER: You think our visitors pose a threat?
TASHA: I don't know. But if they do, I'd better be ready for it.
RIKER: Precisely, Lieutenant.

[Observation Lounge]
T'JON: We have to resolve this soon. There isn't much time.
SOBI: What can you offer?
T'JON: Everything we had went down with the Sanction.
SOBI: Then it's going to be difficult to accommodate you.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Solar flares are increasing in magnitude, Captain. Shields are shaky, but they're holding.
PICARD: Maintain.
PICARD: How are our rather quarrelsome guests?
TASHA: They're waiting for you in the observation lounge, sir.
PICARD: Data, what information can you give us about the inhabitants of this system?
DATA: Not very much, sir. The only recorded contact with the Delos system was over two hundred years ago. A scout ship reported two inhabited planets, one of which was on the verge of acquiring space travel.
LAFORGE: Odd that in two centuries neither civilization advanced much further.
TROI: Sir, I find it strange that none of our visitors feels much remorse about the two freighter passengers who perished. Yet that barrel of cargo is a source of great anxiety to them.
PICARD: Yes. Let's pay a call, get some answers. Number One, Mister Data. Mister La Forge, you have the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Observation Lounge]
RIKER: Captain, may I present Sobi and Langor from the planet Brekka, and T'Jon and Romas from Ornara.
PICARD: I am sorry we couldn't save your ship.
T'JON: Tell me, you could have repaired it.
PICARD: Oh, yes.
T'JON: We have only two left. Neither works properly. They are critical to our survival. Will you fix them?
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Our computer has downloaded the specifications for the magnetic coils the freighters depend on. Assuming the malfunction is similar, suitable replacements can be fabricated.
PICARD: Instruct Engineering to proceed.
DATA: Aye, sir.
T'JON: Now, as for our cargo.
SOBI: Our cargo, Captain.
ROMAS: Wrong, Sobi.
PICARD: My First Officer has said that ownership of this cargo is in dispute, but this question must be settled by whatever legal mechanism exists between your societies.
T'JON: Captain, you don't understand. This is a matter of life and death.
PICARD: Why is that? What is this cargo?
T'JON: Medicine.
PICARD: Indeed?
ROMAS: Our planet is in desperate need, Captain. We have people suffering from a lethal plague.
T'JON: The cargo you have impounded is the only hope of life for our people.
PICARD: Is that so?
SOBI: Yes.
LANGOR: You must think us heartless brutes, Captain, but look at our side of it. The plant which yields the medicine felicium grows only in remote areas of Brekka.
SOBI: It must be painstakingly cultivated, harvested, purified. A complex and expensive process.
LANGOR: That single shipment of felicium represents an enormous investment. We can't just give it away.
T'JON: We paid for it. We are asking only for what is ours.
LANGOR: That is your viewpoint. Ours, of course, differs.
ROMAS: You are going to hold to that position?
SOBI: I am constrained to abide by the terms of our agreement.
ROMAS: Then you condemn us to death!
T'JON: Romas.
ROMAS: You disgust me! If you could see the suffering the plague has caused. Well, you are going to, when you see what it does to us.
PICARD: Romas, are you and T'Jon carrying this plague?
ROMAS: Yes. Every Ornaran does.
PICARD: Then you may have brought it aboard this ship. Was there a medical scan when they transported?
RIKER: Unverified. The solar flares could have caused a malfunction in the biofilter.
PICARD: Med Alert. Medical emergency. Doctor Crusher to the observation lounge at once.

[Sickbay]
SOBI: You find us well, I trust?
CRUSHER: As far as I can tell. Your physiology is somewhat different than I've ever encountered, but I detect no dangerous virus or bacteria.
LANGOR: I assure you we're in perfect health.
T'JON: But we are not. We need our medicine.
SOBI: Our medicine.
T'JON: We paid for it. It's ours now.
CRUSHER: Enough!
SOBI: Of course. You are right, Doctor. Could we leave now?
CRUSHER: I see no reason why not. Escort them to their quarters.
PICARD: Doctor.
LANGOR: Captain, could I speak with you please? In private.
CRUSHER: Not right now. Captain.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: What have you learned?
CRUSHER: The Brekkians show no sign of infection. The Ornarans show all the symptoms of a disease but I can't find a cause.
PICARD: Perhaps it was filtered out by the transporter when they were beamed aboard?
CRUSHER: There's no record of it. Then again, the solar flare activity might have caused a malfunction in the biofilters or their monitors.
PICARD: Are they going to die?
CRUSHER: I need to check further, but my instinct says no.
PICARD: Do you think we are in danger from this plague?
CRUSHER: Again, I need more time.
PICARD: There are some missing pieces to this puzzle.
CRUSHER: What's missing is a little compassion.
PICARD: Are we losing our professional detachment, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Perhaps. But Captain, I must tell you, I'm developing a very active dislike for these Brekkians.
PICARD: Understandable.

[Sickbay]
T'JON: Captain, you must give us back our cargo.
PICARD: I can't do that.
T'JON: Why? It belongs to us.
PICARD: The Brekkians claim it belongs to them.
ROMAS: They lie.
PICARD: That may be so, but it's not my decision.
ROMAS: We need some now. Now! I don't care if it's your decision. Get us some.
T'JON: Captain, what is happening to us, is happening to thousands more on Ornara. Please understand the magnitude of the problem.
ROMAS: Your people don't need it. The Brekkians don't need it. Our people do.
T'JON: If you don't give it to us, you will be a party to murder, not only of us, but of an entire civilization. I'm sorry, I do not mean to insult you. I'm feeling very shaky.
ROMAS: We cannot hold out much longer.
CRUSHER: They believe it will help them. That in itself might control their symptoms.
PICARD: I'll talk with the Brekkians.
T'JON: Thank you, Captain. We appreciate anything you can do.

[Guest quarters]
SOBI: May I say, Captain, how impressed we are with your ship and all its facilities.
PICARD: Thank you.
LANGOR: And its crew. Everyone is so efficient and professional.
PICARD: I am glad you are comfortable. I've come to seek your agreement to an Ornaran request.
SOBI: We cannot agree
LANGOR: Wait. Let the Captain speak. We want to be reasonable.
PICARD: The two Ornarans are really quite ill and insisting that they need felicium.
SOBI: That is not surprising.
PICARD: Would you object to giving them enough for their own immediate needs?
SOBI: Captain, we Brekkians are in business. We are not in the habit of giving away what has not been paid for.
PICARD: You would see them die rather than share the medicine?
LANGOR: We want to be fair, Captain. We agree to permitting them two dosages for immediate use.
SOBI: No charge.
PICARD: I'll let my Medical Officer handle it.
LANGOR: Captain, I trust you won't mind if we're present while you open the cargo.

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: What does that device do?
SOBI: This measures the individual portions.
CRUSHER: What's the dosage?
LANGOR: Point zero one milliliters.
CRUSHER: Very potent substance.
SOBI: We've improved our distillation process over the years.
LANGOR: In my grandfather's day, the same amount of felicium would have filled five rooms this size.
SOBI: But now with our improved processes, this one barrel contains over four billion doses.
DATA: I would estimate four billion, three hundred seventy five million
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
CRUSHER: How long is the dosage effective?
LANGOR: It varies with the individual.
SOBI: But never more than seventy two hours.
CRUSHER: And then the symptoms return.
LANGOR: Yes. Unfortunately, there is no cure for the plague.
SOBI: But felicium inhibits the sickness with total efficiency.
LANGOR: Allowing the Ornarans to lead normal lives.
CRUSHER: An unusual disease. Virulent, extremely persistent, yet I can't isolate it.
LANGOR: The plague has baffled doctors on both planets for two hundred years.
SOBI: We've therefore concentrated on treatment, finding new ways to improve the potency and purity of felicium.
DATA: No doubt you have applied your technology from other industries to the refinement of this product.
SOBI: We have no other industry.
PICARD: None at all?
LANGOR: We don't need any. The Ornarans provide us everything we need in exchange for this.
DATA: Fascinating. Your society is dedicated exclusively to the production of a single product.
PICARD: A product for which you have no use, but which the Ornarans can't live without.
LANGOR: One of the little ironies of life, Captain.
SOBI: But one we'd be fools not to take advantage of. It's mutually beneficial.
LANGOR: The Ornarans provide us with the necessities of life, and we provide them with the necessities of living. It is a fair exchange.
PICARD: Interesting relationship.
CRUSHER: Excuse me. I'll take that to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Can I help?
T'JON: No.
ROMAS: Hurry up!
CRUSHER: You're feeling better?
T'JON: Yes, thank you. I'm fine now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: I may not know felicium's full effect on Ornarian physiology, but I know how to interpret physical reactions.
PICARD: Are the Ornarans recovering?
CRUSHER: T'Jon and Romas are feeling fine. In fact, too fine. Felicium's a narcotic.
PICARD: Then T'Jon, and Romas, indeed everyone on their world?
CRUSHER: Is a drug addict.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I think you'll find it's a fascinating tale that we've come across here, Captain.
PICARD: You've piqued my interest, Number One. Please continue.
RIKER: Data, what have we got?
DATA: Beginning several thousand years ago, the two worlds took different paths. Ornara became technologically sophisticated, Brekka did not. Then two hundred years ago, Ornara was stricken by a devastating plague.
RIKER: Their advanced technology could provide no solution.
DATA: Somehow, and there is limited information on this point, the cure was found in a plant indigenous to only Brekka, and which resisted all attempts at cultivation on Ornara.
RIKER: In any case, a trading situation developed which still exists.
CRUSHER: A nice arrangement for the Brekkians.
RIKER: And for the Ornarans. Without the medicine, they would all die.
CRUSHER: No they wouldn't. Despite what the Ornarans have been saying, it's not a medicine. It was a medicine, but it cured the plague two hundred years ago. The plague is irrelevant now. It doesn't exist.
RIKER: Then why are they so desperate for the felicium?
CRUSHER: It's an addiction. The physical and psychological need is very real.
PICARD: Thank you.
CRUSHER: What are you going to do?
PICARD: Based on what we know so far, there's nothing I can do.
CRUSHER: You don't think drug addiction and exploitation is sufficient cause to do something?
PICARD: This situation has existed for a very long time. These two societies are intertwined in a symbiotic relationship.
CRUSHER: With one society profiting at the expense of the other.
PICARD: That's how you see it.
CRUSHER: I can synthesize a non-addictive substitute which will ease their withdrawal symptoms.
PICARD: No, I can't do that either.
CRUSHER: You can't let them have the felicium.
PICARD: Why? Because it offends against our sensibilities? It is not our mission to impose Federation or Earth values on any others in the galaxy.
CRUSHER: Well in this case, Captain, I disagree, one hundred percent.
TASHA: Captain, I'm receiving a call from Ornara. The signal is ragged, but I think I can put it on the viewscreen.
PICARD: Do it.
MARGAN (screen): I'm Margan. Are my people on board your ship?
PICARD: Some of them, yes.
MARGAN (screen): May I speak to them?
PICARD: Yes. Lieutenant Yar, have the Ornarans brought in. No, wait, I don't want them to have access to the Bridge. We will contact you in a few minutes. I will continue this in the guest quarters. Commander, Doctor.
WESLEY: Data, I can understand how this could happen to the Ornarans. What I can't understand is why anyone would voluntarily become dependent on a chemical.
DATA: Voluntary addiction to drugs is a recurrent theme in many cultures.
TASHA: Wesley, no one wants to become dependent. That happens later.
WESLEY: But it does happen. So why do people start?
TASHA: On my home planet, there was so much poverty and violence, that for some the only escape was through drugs.
WESLEY: How can a chemical substance can provide an escape.
TASHA: It doesn't, but it makes you think it does. You have to understand, drugs can make you feel good. They make you feel on top of the world. You're happy, sure of yourself, in control.
WESLEY: But it's artificial.
TASHA: It doesn't feel artificial until the drug wears off. Then you pay the price. Before you know it, you're taking the drug not to feel good, but to keep from feeling bad.
WESLEY: And that's the trap?
TASHA: All you care about is getting your next dosage. Nothing else matters.
WESLEY: I guess I just don't understand.
TASHA: Wesley, I hope you never do.
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant Yar, we're ready in the guest quarters.

[Ornaran Guest quarters]
MARGAN (screen): T'Jon. Have you got it?
T'JON: Well, it's here, but
MARGAN (screen): You've got to get it to us. T'Jon, please. We're dying down here. You don't know. It's worse than it's ever been before.
T'JON: I'm doing everything I can. You see, what happened was
MARGAN (screen): Stop! I can't listen any more! T'Jon, there are so many people here. So much suffering. We need the medicine. You've got to get it to us. I can't go on. Help, T'Jon. Please.
PICARD: I'm sorry.
T'JON: You will take us to our planet and leave us there with our medicine or this person dies. Don't you see I have no choice? We were sent to bring the felicium back. The suffering on my planet is too great. People are dying. It doesn't matter whether we're entitled to it or not. We must have it.
PICARD: Let him go.
T'JON: You will take us there now, or give us a shuttle. But we must have the medicine. If you refuse, this person will die.
PICARD: I will not be coerced.
T'JON: I will do it. I will kill him.
PICARD: No. No, you won't. You're not a killer.
T'JON: Help us, please. Help us.
PICARD: I'm not sure that I can.
RIKER: My insides are still shaking, but I'm all right.
LANGOR: Captain Picard, could I see you a moment?
RIKER: I'll stay here.
PICARD: Come with me, Doctor. This could be interesting.

[Brekkian Guest quarters]
LANGOR: We have thought about this a great deal.
SOBI: We both of us feel deeply about what is happening on Ornara.
LANGOR: Although it is going to cause hardship to us and to our people, we have decided to give the felicium to them.
SOBI: They can pay whenever they are able.
LANGOR: We don't want to be the ones responsible for their suffering.
PICARD: There goes the other shoe. They know.
CRUSHER: What do they know?
PICARD: They know that the Ornarans no longer have the plague. They know that felicium is no longer a medicine. So, of course, they are willing to give this shipment because they don't want to take the chance that the Ornarans will lose their addiction. They don't want to lose their only customers.
CRUSHER: How would they have known all that, unless the plague had once infected their world as well.
PICARD: They were infected. They used the felicium to cure themselves, but somehow their ancestors realized that it was a narcotic.
CRUSHER: They broke the cycle of addiction and never told the Ornarans. They let them continue to believe that without the felicium they would die.
PICARD: I think it's worse than that. My guess is this refining process of which you are so proud
CRUSHER: is only to increase the potency of the felicium and tighten your grip!
SOBI: What are you going to do?
LANGOR: Are you going to tell them?
PICARD: No. I'm bound by the rules of the United Federation of Planets, which order me not to interfere with other worlds, other cultures. If I were to tell them any of this, I would violate that Prime Directive.
SOBI: But you are talking to us about it.
PICARD: This is information you already know. And so nothing has changed.
LANGOR: If you can't interfere, then you are going to allow the Ornarans to have the felicium?
PICARD: Yes, I am.
CRUSHER: No! Don't do it. Jean-Luc, this is not a symbiotic relationship. This is exploitation, pure and simple! The Brekkians have caused all of this suffering and hardship only to make their pitiful lives easier! And all of it based on a lie. No, deny them this shipment. It is the least we can do.
PICARD: From the moment they agreed to give them the felicium, my hands were tied.
LANGOR: You are absolutely right, Captain. It's not your business.

[Cargo bay]
T'JON: Are these the spare parts for our freighters?
ROMAS: They look complicated.
T'JON: Are they already?
TASHA: Aligned?
T'JON: Right.
TASHA: You'd have to ask the Captain.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain Picard, we've arrived at Ornara and assumed standard orbit.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Thank you.
T'JON: Captain, please. My planet is suffering.
ROMAS: We beg you to give us our medicine.
PICARD: The matter is already decided. You're beaming down to your world with the felicium.
T'JON: Great.
ROMAS: I knew it. I knew you'd help us.
T'JON: We thank you.
PICARD: Don't thank me. Sobi and Langor, they decided to let you have it.
SOBI: We'll discuss the payment terms later.
LANGOR: In the mean time, there's no need to deprive you of your needed medicine.
T'JON: That's terrific.
ROMAS: I'm sure we can come to a fair deal for payment.
SOBI: May we beam down with you and discuss it?
T'JON: Of course.
ROMAS: You are quite welcome on Ornara.
LANGOR: We appreciate your hospitality.
T'JON: And Captain, we appreciate your gift of the coils.
ROMAS: Once our freighters are fixed, everything'll be back to normal.
PICARD: No.
T'JON: No?
PICARD: The coils stay here.
ROMAS: What about our freighters?
PICARD: You want to repair them, you'll have to learn to do it yourselves.
T'JON: We can't.
ROMAS: If you don't help us, our ships will soon be inoperable.
PICARD: Quite possibly.
SOBI: If you withhold those coils, you'll be disrupting the stability of both our planets.
LANGOR: And interfering with a trade arrangement that has lasted for generations! What of your Prime Directive?
PICARD: In this situation, Prime Directive prohibits me from helping you.
SOBI: That's absurd!
PICARD: You did not think so when it worked in your favor.
ROMAS: Do you want our world to suffer?
PICARD: Oh no, I don't want that.
T'JON: Without the freighters, there will be no more shipments of felicium. We will die.
CRUSHER: You must trust yourselves. There are other options.
PICARD: Ensign, prepare to beam our guests and their cargo down to Ornara.
T'JON: Captain, I hope you realize what you've done to us.
PICARD: Of that you can be sure. Good luck.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Main Bridge.
CRUSHER: When the Felicium runs out, the people of Ornara will suffer horrible withdrawal pains.
PICARD: No doubt, but they will pass.
CRUSHER: That seems so cruel. We could have made their burden easier.
PICARD: Could we have? Perhaps in the short term. But to what end? Hold. Beverly, the Prime Directive is not just a set of rules. It is a philosophy, and a very correct one. History has proved again and again that whenever mankind interferes with a less developed civilization, no matter how well intentioned that interference may be, the results are invariably disastrous.
CRUSHER: It's hard to be philosophical when faced with suffering.
PICARD: Believe me, Beverly, there was only one decision.
CRUSHER: I just hope it was the right one.
PICARD: And we may never know. Resume.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, take us out of orbit.
LAFORGE: Destination, sir?
PICARD: I don't care. Let's just get some distance between us and this system.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Course nine seven zero mark three one eight. Speed, warp three.
RIKER: Where will that take us, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: The Opraline system.
RIKER: An interesting choice. Why?
LAFORGE: Curiosity. We've never been there.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41697.9. We're en route to Sarona Eight for much needed shore leave. The entire crew is looking forward to the diversion. On a personal note, I have allowed myself the luxury of a head start.

[Gymnasium]
DEAN: I took advantage.
PICARD: No, no, Lieutenant, the advantage was yours. Come again. En garde.
DEAN: Interesting move, sir, but what technique was that?
PICARD: The technique of a desperate man.
DEAN: Interesting move, sir, but what technique was that?
PICARD: The technique of a desperate man.
DEAN: Captain, what was that?
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain?
PICARD: Number One, did something unusual just occur on the Bridge?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir. We experienced some kind of loop where everything repeats itself.
PICARD: Here too. I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: Sensors show nothing, sir, but it appears a moment in time repeated itself exactly for everyone.
LAFORGE: Just like a feeling of deja vu.
WORF: Reports from all decks coming in, sir.
DATA: Computers were also affected, which would indicate the phenomenon was not an illusion but occurred in real time.
PICARD: Number One, find out if anything similar happened in this sector.
WORF: Sir, I am receiving an emergency transmission from the Pegos Minor system.
PICARD: Put it on.
MANHEIM (voiceover): Five four two point two. I repeat. This is Doctor Paul Manheim. We are in need of help. Urgent. All ships, please respond. I repeat. Coordinates are six six seven two eight point nine
WORF: It is an automated signal, sir. I am unable to establish contact.
PICARD: Shut it off. Mister La Forge, lay in a course on those coordinates.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Captain, you act as if there's a connection between the time distortion and the distress signal.
PICARD: There is. Paul Manheim. Fifteen years ago he went off to work on experiments relating to non-linear time. It appears he may have achieved some measure of success. Speed warp eight.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp eight.
PICARD: Engage.
LAFORGE: Estimated arrival Pegos Minor, four hours, thirty five minutes, seventeen seconds.
RIKER: I've never heard of Paul Manheim.
PICARD: Mister Data.
DATA: A highly respected scientist, considered a visionary, he advanced several time-related theories. One regarding the relationships between time and gravity was quite intriguing. But neither that theory nor any other received wide acceptance.
PICARD: Fifteen years ago, he assembled a team of scientists to expand that research. They disappeared. Haven't been heard from since.
RIKER: Did you know him, Captain?
PICARD: I knew of him. He was teaching at the University when I was in Paris, but I didn't have the pleasure. I must change. Number One, inform me half an hour before we reach those co-ordinates. Keep trying to determine if the time distortion was specifically located on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
TROI: Captain? Excuse me.
PICARD: Yes, what is it, Counselor?
TROI: I think you would prefer to discuss this in private.
PICARD: That's not necessary. Go on.
TROI: When Professor Manheim's name was mentioned, you reacted with intense emotion.
PICARD: Yes. Please get to the point.
TROI: I don't want to interfere with your personal life, but unresolved strong emotion can affect judgment.
PICARD: Well, thank you for your concern.
TROI: As Ship's Counselor, I offer my assistance.
PICARD: What do you suggest?
TROI: Confronting deep personal issues is not easy for you. You tend to suppress them. There are a few hours until we arrive. Perhaps you should use this time to analyze your feelings and put them into perspective.
PICARD: Thank you, Counselor. If I should need you further, I'll let you know.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. Belay that. Computer, estimated arrival at Pegos Minor.
COMPUTER: Two hours, nine minutes.
PICARD: Holodeck three.

[Outside Holodeck]
PICARD: Computer, this is Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: Holodeck three is clear.
PICARD: Location, Paris, Cafe des Artistes, as it appeared twenty two years ago. April the ninth, fifteen hundred hours, three o'clock. Warm spring day.
COMPUTER: Program complete.

[Cafe des Artistes]
EDOUARD: Monsieur, welcome to the Cafe des Artistes. Is this your first time in Paris?
PICARD: No.
EDOUARD: This way.
PICARD: That table.
EDOUARD: Mais oui, bien sur, monsieur. We are here to please you.
PICARD: I've been away far too long.
EDOUARD: Some wine, some cheese?
PICARD: I'm not very hungry. I really came for the view.
EDOUARD: Perhaps what you hunger for is not on the menu.
PICARD: Perhaps not. It was many years ago, I had a rendezvous. I was to meet someone. Someone here, at this very table.
EDOUARD: Your young lady, she did not come?
PICARD: Actually, I don't know. I always imagined that she did.
EDOUARD: You, however, did not. Ah. Well, trust Edouard. I will bring something very special, just for you.
FRANCINE: Let's go. We've waited long enough.
GABRIELLE: Fine. You go. I'll stay a little longer.
FRANCINE: He's not coming, Gabrielle.
GABRIELLE: No, after last night, I know he will. I just know.
FRANCINE: Then he would be here. You are making a fool out of yourself, and I will not watch.
GABRIELLE: Do we know each other?
PICARD: No.
GABRIELLE: The way you look at me, do I remind you of someone?
PICARD: No. Yes, you do, somewhat.
GABRIELLE: He's not coming. Why? What did I do to drive him away?
PICARD: Maybe you did nothing. Maybe he had no choice. Maybe he was afraid.
GABRIELLE: Of what? Of me?
PICARD: Oh, of being connected, rooted. Perhaps if he's as young as you are, he doesn't know yet exactly what he wants to do. Maybe. Enough of this self-indulgence. Exit.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, we've received communication from the freighter Lalo, as well as from a farming colony on Coltar Four. Both described the same time distortion. The Captain of the Lalo described it a hiccup.
PICARD: Hiccup?
DATA: Actually sir, that may be an incorrect analogy.
PICARD: How so, Data?
DATA: A hiccup is a spasmodic inhalation with closure of the glottis. accompanied by a peculiar sound. If we were to continue this analogy to a body function, what occurred would be best represented by a
PICARD: That's enough, Data. Have you been able to learn more specifics about the Manheim project?
DATA: All I have found sir, is what you already know. Manheim was concentrating on time gravity experiments when he left.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've reached the coordinates specified. There's nothing here.
WORF: I'm receiving new coordinates. It's a relay signal. Same source as the first one.
LAFORGE: What are they, Worf?
WORF: Six six four point eight by one three two three point seven by four nine four nine point nine.
LAFORGE: Very remote area, sir. It's in the middle of the Vandor system, a binary star system. Main star's a B class giant, the companion star's a pulsar.
PICARD: Set course for the new coordinates, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Why is he making it this difficult to find him?
PICARD: Hopefully he'll tell us, Number One.
LAFORGE: We have reached the coordinates, Captain.
DATA: Sensors indicate it is Vandor Four, a planetoid in elliptical orbit around the binary system.
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Give me a visual.
WORF: Viewscreen on. There's a small forcefield on the planet. Latitude twenty degrees, nine minutes north. Longitude forty degrees, two minutes east of the present terminator.
PICARD: Penetrable?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: This is Captain. This is the Captain of the USS Enterprise responding to your signal for help.
JENICE (voiceover): Enterprise, thank you for hearing us. Where are you?
PICARD: We're in orbit around Vandor now.
JENICE (voiceover): Then you can help me. I don't know what to do. It's only the two of us left. He's having convulsions. Please.
PICARD: Can you lock on to her coordinates?
LAFORGE: No, sir. The forcefield is preventing any kind of contact other than audio.
PICARD: There is a force field at your location.
JENICE (voiceover): Yes. I know.
PICARD: Good. But it is preventing us from helping you. Now, you must find some way to shut it down.
JENICE (voiceover): I'll try.
WORF: Force field is off.
PICARD: Good. Lock onto their coordinates. Beam them up directly to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher, prepare for a Medical Emergency. Two to beam directly up to Sickbay.
CRUSHER (voiceover): We'll be ready, Captain.
PICARD: That's where I'll be. Number One. Mister Data.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'll help. Easy. Easy.
CRUSHER: I've got his legs. How long has he been like this?
JENICE: Several hours at least. He was in his lab, so I can't be sure.
CRUSHER: I need to do some tests.
PICARD: Er, I, er.
JENICE: Jean-Luc. I thought the voice sounded familiar.
PICARD: Hello.
JENICE: I should have known. Who else would have charged to my rescue?
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. Lieutenant Commander Data. This is Jenice Manheim.
RIKER: A pleasure, Mrs. Manheim.
JENICE: Thank you.
PICARD: I have a number of questions for you.
JENICE: I hope I can be of some help.
PICARD: Why don't we sit down?

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: You said there were only two of you left. What happened to the rest of the crew?
JENICE: They were working in the second lab. Something happened there a few weeks ago. They were all killed. It was a terrible accident. I don't know exactly what happened. So many brilliant, wonderful minds, just gone.
DATA: Do you know the nature of Doctor Manheim's work?
JENICE: Paul's always been interested in time. He's never believed that it was immutable, any more than space is immutable. Over the last decade, he came to believe that we reside in one of infinite dimensions, and what holds us here is the constancy of time. Change that and it would be what he called opening the window to those other dimensions.
RIKER: Which begins to explain what happened.
JENICE: Have you been experiencing something up here?
PICARD: Yes. What is emanating here is having repercussions light years away, maybe even further.
JENICE: That would explain his anxiety. I had no idea it had gone so far beyond Vandor.
RIKER: Why this place? Why Vandor?
JENICE: All I can tell you about that is Paul and the rest of the team searched for two years to find it. Vandor's exactly what they needed. A planetoid around a binary star.
DATA: Because of the dense gravity of the pulsar.
PICARD: Did your husband ever attempt to define these dimensions, give you an idea of what he expected?
JENICE: No. But he did say that he was very close to proving his theories. And then the accident.
PICARD: Did he anticipate that these experiments might be dangerous?
JENICE: I didn't think so. Now, in retrospect, he probably did. That would explain all the unusual precautions he began taking, even before the accident. The force field, the elaborate security system. Every time he started a new experiment, he insisted that I stay in what he said called a protected room.
PICARD: Ah, and that's why you weren't affected.
JENICE: Jean-Luc, he would never knowingly do anything to hurt anyone.
PICARD: Yes, I believe that.
JENICE: But as he saw his goal getting closer, seeming possible, he became more and more obsessive. Maybe that clouded his judgment. This is not how I imagined seeing you again.
PICARD: Nor I you.
JENICE: You've done well. A great starship in the far reaches of the galaxy. It's everything you'd hoped.
PICARD: Not exactly. Nothing works just as you hope. If you can't tell us any more, I need to send a team down to the lab.
JENICE: You can't. It's protected. One of the other scientists made sure no one could get in.
CRUSHER: Excuse me.
JENICE: Is he worse?
CRUSHER: He's resting. But I'd like you to undergo some tests as well. My nurse will start them.
JENICE: Thank you for your kindness, Doctor.
PICARD: She's an old friend.
CRUSHER: I gathered that. It's her husband I'm more concerned with at the moment.
PICARD: What's the prognosis?
CRUSHER: I believe he's dying. His neurochemistry's been affected, but I don't know how or why. I've never encountered anything like it before.
RIKER: How long does he have?
CRUSHER: Maybe a couple of days. It's hard to predict. All I can do is maintain him or attempt to maintain him until I find out what's causing the damage.
PICARD: Can we talk to him?
CRUSHER: Not now. Not yet.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are now being felt in the Ilecom system.
PICARD: Bridge. In the past decade, Manheim has turned some vague theories into a practical application.
RIKER: Yes, but without his help, I'm not sure we'll be able to pose any intelligent questions, let alone come up with any solutions.
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are now being felt in the Ilecom system.
PICARD: It's us before we stepped into the turbolift.
PICARD 2: It's happening again.
DATA 2: I feel no disorientation.
DATA: Nor do I.

[Corridor]
RIKER: What was that?
DATA: I believe what could be termed the Manheim Effect is becoming more pronounced.
RIKER: This is where we started, if we are us.
DATA: Oh, we are us, sir, but they are also us. So indeed, we are both us at different points along the same time continuum.
PICARD: Bridge.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What have you learned?
DATA: We have completed a scan of the planet surface.
RIKER: We've discovered the second lab is on the far side of the planet, completely destroyed. Unable to determine what caused it. Otherwise, very little to clarify the situation.
DATA: Our sensors show an immense volume of energy emanating deep within the planet, and concentrated near Manheim's remaining laboratory.
PICARD: How is the energy being used.
RIKER: No idea.
PICARD: What's it's source?
DATA: I cannot be sure, sir, but I believe Manheim has developed a method for harnessing energy from the pulsar.
RIKER: It comes down to this, Captain. We've learned everything we can from here, and we are no closer to understanding it than we were twelve hours ago. Manheim is unable to help us, but hopefully, having been a good scientist, he kept notes.
DATA: I would need to study Manheim's records.
RIKER: And in order to do that we're going to have to go down there.
PICARD: What about the defense system Mrs. Manheim spoke of?
RIKER: It may have been connected to the main system, and when she lowered the shield she may have turned that off as well. If not, we'll deal with it as best we can.
PICARD: Prepare your team.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Coordinates set?
CHIEF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Energize.
CHIEF: There's a lack of integrity at the landing point.

[Bridge]
CHIEF (voiceover): I'm losing them.
PICARD: Bring them back. Now. Chief Herbert, what's going on?

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: There seems to be some kind of strange bouncing effect.

[Bridge]
CHIEF (voiceover): I can't get them to materialize. My readings aren't complete.
PICARD: Keep trying.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: What are we doing back here?
CHIEF: You're lucky you made it back at all, sir.

[Sickbay]
MANHEIM: Where am I?
JENICE: Paul. Thank God. You're on the USS Enterprise. They answered your distress signal.
MANHEIM: I sent one.?
JENICE: Oh, Paul, you're going to be just fine.
MANHEIM: I am not fine, Jenice. I'm not even close to fine.
CRUSHER: Bridge, this is Doctor Crusher. Professor Manheim is conscious.
MANHEIM: Remember, it was worth it, what happened. What will happen, all of it, it was all worth it. Again. It's changing again.
CRUSHER: What is? What do you see?
MANHEIM: I'm having difficulty.
CRUSHER: With what? Are you in pain?
MANHEIM: I have been on the other side. I have touched another dimension. Part of me is still there.
JENICE: Help him.
CRUSHER: Try to stay calm, Doctor Manheim. I don't think it's going to help you struggling against it.
MANHEIM: My mind is floating between two places. It is difficult to know which is which. There is no way to explain it.
PICARD: Doctor Manheim, I'm Captain Picard.
MANHEIM: The same one? She has told me about you. Not all, but enough.
PICARD: We need your help. The situation is not good.
MANHEIM: It will get worse.
PICARD: What do we do? How do we stop it?
MANHEIM: I'm having difficulty holding the moment.
PICARD: Doctor, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Will you explain the situation to him?
DATA: I am fully versed, sir, on all your theories regarding time and gravity.
MANHEIM: How is that possible? I am not even fully versed on all of my theories.
DATA: I am an android.
MANHEIM: Android? On a Starfleet vessel?
DATA: I am the only one, sir.
MANHEIM: Your knowledge is useless, because the work we have done here has made most of those theories obsolete.
DATA: Then you have harnessed a dynamic energy source.
MANHEIM: Then you do understand. Yes. We were able to locate an energy source in the center of this planetoid. We learned to enhance it, to focus it. Everything worked too well. The energy from the pulsar, the energy from the planetoid. We opened a crack, a window into another dimension.
PICARD: The time distortion we felt.
MANHEIM: Felt? Then it is not confined to the planetoid?
DATA: The range is at least several thousand light years.
MANHEIM: Captain, it must be stopped! You must help me to execute a controlled shut down of this experiment. Get my notes, they're in the lab.
PICARD: How do we bypass the security system?
MANHEIM: I'll give you the correct coordinates to beam safely down to Vandor, and the codes you need to bypass security systems to get into my lab.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: If what the Professor has given me is accurate, it is possible to repair the damage. But it must be perfectly timed to coincide with another time distortion episode.
RIKER: Can we predict the timing?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: We have to. If we don't seal that hole, this other dimension he's opened will rip into the fabric of the galaxy. Reality as we perceive it will not be the same. Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Yes, sir?
PICARD: I want those codes that Manheim gave Mister Data rechecked and then checked again. No one is beaming down to Vandor unless we can be reasonably sure they can get through.
WORF: Aye, sir.
JENICE: I'm sorry for intruding. I was told I'd find you here.
PICARD: You're not intruding. We're just finished. Come in. Thank you.
JENICE: I knew you wouldn't come to me.
PICARD: No, not under these circumstances.
JENICE: We have unfinished business.
PICARD: Yes, we do.
JENICE: Why didn't you come to meet me that last day in Paris?
PICARD: I was afraid.
JENICE: Oh, I didn't want this.
PICARD: What?
JENICE: The truth.
PICARD: Oh, you want me to lie?
JENICE: Of course. A nice, soft, painless lie.
PICARD: Oh, I got the days confused. I thought it was Tuesday when it was Wednesday. I went to the Cafe Moulin instead of the Cafe des Artistes.
JENICE: Ah, that's better. It was raining and you couldn't find a cab. I waited all day. And it was raining. It rained the rest of the week. I went to Starfleet headquarters looking for you, but you'd already shipped out. So, come on, Jean-Luc. Let's hear the truth.
PICARD: It was fear. Fear of seeing you, losing my resolve. Fear of staying, losing myself. Fear that neither of these choices was right, and that, and that either would have
JENICE: For a long time, not a day went by when I didn't look up into the sky, and wonder.
PICARD: Each time that I returned to Earth, my thoughts were filled with you.
JENICE: I've thought a lot about this over the years, and perhaps you're leaving out your greatest fear. The real reason you left.
PICARD: Which was?
JENICE: That life with me would have somehow made you ordinary.
PICARD: You're wonderful. And am I that transparent?
JENICE: Only to me.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I wish I could talk to you, Professor Manheim. I bet you were really something.
CRUSHER: Deanna.
TROI: I wanted to see how he was doing.
CRUSHER: The same. Nothing I do seems to make any difference. That's not why you're here.
TROI: I thought I was the empath.

[Doctor's Office]
TROI: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: Why wouldn't I be? I've got one of the medical wonders of the galaxy dying in my sickbay.
TROI: That's not what I meant.
CRUSHER: I don't think I want to talk about what I think you mean.
TROI: Captain Picard
CRUSHER: I can't compete with a ghost from his past. No one could.
TROI: She's not a ghost. She's here right now.
CRUSHER: She may be in the here and now, but it's the ghost he sees. Excuse me, I have to get back to my patient.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How soon, Mister Data?
DATA: If Doctor Manheim's information is correct, by my calculations, the next time distortion should occur between twenty eight to forty seven minutes.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Bridge, this is Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Doctor Manheim is awake and asking to speak with you, Captain. Alone.

[Bridge]
PICARD: On my way, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: You asked for me.
MANHEIM: I am not sure I remembered all of the codes for the security system. You should warn anyone going down there
PICARD: Thank you. I'll tell them to be cautious.
MANHEIM: What I really wanted to talk to you about is Jenice.
PICARD: Doctor Manheim, I did not come here to discuss your wife.
MANHEIM: It is only this. If anything should go wrong, please, take care of her for me.
PICARD: Of course.
MANHEIM: She never would admit this, but she has had a terrible time these last years. Had we not been so isolated, she might have left me, and I never would have known. At least, not right away. Perhaps I'm not a man who should have a woman like her. She deserves better.
PICARD: You underestimate her. I know, because I once did.

[Corridor]
DATA: In both cases, the time distortions occurred along the same continuum as a preview or a reprise of a specific point in time.
PICARD: Where we are, where we were, and where we will be. Data, I want this to be an away team of one. You. I don't think there's any reason to risk anyone else.
DATA: It is reasonable, sir. After all, I am a machine and dispensable.
PICARD: Indispensable is the appropriate word. I think it should be only you because you seem more able to control the effects of the time distortion.
DATA: Oh, I see, sir. That is quite true, sir. I see time as a constant, whereas humans perceive time as flexible. Hence the expression, times flies when you're having fun, which until now has always confused me.
PICARD: Well, I want you to put a stitch in time and, er, save much more than nine.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: If other members of the away team became disoriented, it could create additional problems and perhaps increase the danger.
DATA: I will go immediately, sir.
PICARD: Good luck, Data.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: All right. We have the coordinates exactly as the Professor specified.

[Vandor corridor]
DATA: Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard.
DATA: I am proceeding to the lab, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Maintain an open frequency, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, what's going on?

[Vandor corridor]
DATA: Doctor Manheim forgot to mention one of his security precautions, sir. I am proceeding into the laboratory.

[Laboratory]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister Data, this channel will remain open. Please continue to report.
DATA: This appears to be the instrument Doctor Manheim described. It should confirm when the next time effect will occur.
RIKER (voiceover): Data?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Did Manheim give you enough information to decipher the security code?

[Laboratory]
DATA: I will know in a moment, sir. According to calculations, the next time effect will occur in one minute thirty seconds.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the next step, Mister Data?

[Laboratory]
DATA: I will need to add a specific amount of antimatter to rebalance and align the system.
PICARD (voiceover): Will that plug the hole?
DATA: Theoretically, yes. In reality I do not know.
DATA: When the effect hits, the forcefields will align, opening a clean straight path to the other dimension. Whatever the time distortion, I must add the antimatter at the appropriate moment. Geordi, if the Professor was right, I will need a twenty seven second countdown.
LAFORGE (voiceover): You got it, Data.
DATA: Captain, I now have the antimatter and am moving towards the opening at the end of the lab. The next time distortion should occur within seconds. Geordi, begin countdown on my mark. Now.
DATA 3: Captain, there appear to be three of us.
DATA 1: Should I drop the antimatter or wait for one of you?
DATA 3: Only one of us is at the correct time continuum.
DATA 1: Which one?
DATA 2: Me. It's me.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Five, four, three, two, one.
PICARD (voiceover): Data, report. Are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Is it closed?
DATA: It is well patched, sir. Closed indicates a permanent condition, which I cannot guarantee.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Patched is good enough. Well done. Beam back immediately.

[Laboratory]
DATA: With pleasure, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is amazing. All your readings are completely normal.
MANHEIM: Where is my wife? Is she all right?
CRUSHER: She's right here.
MANHEIM: Jenice.
JENICE: Paul.
MANHEIM: The effect has been reversed. I can feel it. We're safe.
JENICE: How is he?
CRUSHER: He needs rest. There might be some residual effects, but other than that, he'll be all right.
MANHEIM: I feel like I'm coming out of a long tunnel. It's there. Not at all like I thought it would be. Different.
JENICE: Describe it.
MANHEIM: I can't, not yet. The only words that fit are too pale because the images are so vibrant. It's not like anything anyone has ever experienced before. There was, no, no, there is this kind of life. Not like us. Not like this. What's the condition of my lab?
PICARD: Intact, for the most part.
JENICE: Don't tell me we're going back?
MANHEIM: Oh, Jenice, we are so close. We have learned so much to walk away. Besides, we owe it to the others, our friends. There have been so many sacrifices by so many good people.
JENICE: We'll be going back.
PICARD: Yes, I can see that. I'm sure the Federation will want to help in any way that it can.
MANHEIM: Thank you. This time it will be different, I promise.
JENICE: It always is, my love. You said my life would never be dull, and it never has been.
MANHEIM: Thank you.

[Outside Holodeck]
TROI: Computer, this is Counselor Troi. Request access.
COMPUTER: Do you wish to terminate the current program?
TROI: No, continue the program.
COMPUTER: Enter when ready.
TROI: The Captain is waiting for you inside.

[Cafe des Artistes]
JENICE: How is this possible? It's Paris. Unbelievable.
EDOUARD: Madame, this way. The Captain is waiting for you.
JENICE: This is so real.
EDOUARD: Bien sur. Pourquoi pas?
JENICE: Jean-Luc, don't tell me how you did it. I don't care. It's perfect. It's as if we were really there.
PICARD: I wanted to say goodbye properly this time. I shall always picture you here.
JENICE: I expect you to always come charging to my rescue.
PICARD: I'll do my best.
JENICE: Goodbye, Jean-Luc. Be well.
PICARD: And you.
JENICE: Thank you for Paris.
JENICE: Well, so much for my dramatically romantic exit.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is anything wrong?
RIKER: No, sir.
PICARD: Then set course for Sarona Eight. As I remember we were on our way for some much needed shore leave.
LAFORGE: Course set and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Warp five. Engage.
RIKER: I've only been there once, but they've got this great club. I don't remember the name of it. They serve these blue concoctions
TROI: It's across the square from the Zanza Men's Dance Palace.
PICARD: It's called the Blue Parrot Cafe, and you're buying.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: So the guy staggers to his feet and goes back to the girl, right? Well, she smiles, looks him right in the eye and says 'just try that in hyperspace!'
DATA: I see. So the difficulty in attaining such complex positioning in zero gravity environment, coupled with the adverse effect it would have on the psychological well being of the average human male, is what makes this anecdote so amusing. Yes. Very humorous indeed. Hysterical, in fact.
RIKER: What is our e.t.a. at Pacifica, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Twenty two hours fourteen minutes, sir.
RIKER: Increase to warp six.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. Full impulse.
RIKER: Do you think anyone would object to our arriving ahead of schedule?
TROI: I know I won't. I've been really looking forward to a nice swim.
DATA: You are aware, Counselor, that the holodeck can be programmed to recreate an oceanic environment.
TROI: Data, it's just not the same. Have you ever been for a real moonlight swim?
DATA: One can swim in moonlight?
TROI: How about you, Mister Worf?
WORF: Swimming is too much like bathing.
DATA: Commander Riker. I am receiving a Code Forty Seven.
RIKER: Verify.
DATA: It is a Code Forty Seven, sir. Starfleet emergency frequency.
TROI: Code Forty Seven. Captain's eyes only.

[Picard's quarters]
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, I'm sorry to disturb you.
PICARD: Yes, Number One. What is it?
RIKER (screen): An incoming message. Code Forty Seven, sir.
PICARD: Pipe it through.
COMPUTER: This is an emergency communiqué. It is not to be discussed with fellow officers unless deemed absolutely necessary. There will be no computer record of said transmission.
PICARD: Understood.
COMPUTER: Proceed with voice print identification.
PICARD: Picard, Jean-Luc. Captain, USS Enterprise.
COMPUTER: Voice print verified.
PICARD: Walker!
KEEL (screen): Hello, Jean-Luc. It's been a long time.
PICARD: Too long, old friend. Why are you contacting me on this frequency?
KEEL (screen): It was a difficult decision. I felt it was worth the risk.
PICARD: Risk?
KEEL (screen): It's about Starfleet. About something we've always considered to be impossible.
PICARD: I don't understand.
KEEL (screen): I can't explain it now. We need to talk, face to face.
PICARD: You're using a Code Forty Seven. I have to know what this is all about.
KEEL (screen): Not over subspace, no.
PICARD: Oh, for God's sake, Walker. This is a secured channel
KEEL (screen): No. I want you to meet me on Dytallix B.
PICARD: When?
KEEL (screen): Immediately.
PICARD: Not possible. We're expected at Pacifica,
KEEL (screen): That can wait. You owe me. And you owe it to yourself to hear what I have to say. Something is beginning. Don't trust anyone. Remember that, Jean-Luc. Don't take anything for granted.
PICARD: Walker.
KEEL (screen): Dytallix B. We'll be waiting.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, are you familiar with Dytallix B?
DATA: Dytallix B is one of seven uninhabited planets mined for the Federation by the Dytallix Mining Company. It is in the nearby Mira system.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, chart a course for it immediately. Warp seven. And there will be no records or logs mentioning any aspect of this diversion.
RIKER: Captain, they're expecting us at Pacifica. Shouldn't we contact them and let them know.
PICARD: Negative. Nothing goes out without specific orders from me. Hopefully the delay will be minimal.
DATA: I have the readout on Dytallix B, Commander.
RIKER: What have you got?
DATA: Dytallix B is the fifth of six planets circling the red giant known as Mira. One side always faces the sun, where temperatures reach up to one hundred and eighty degrees. The mines line the temperate zone between the day and night sides, but they are long deserted.
RIKER: Why the devil are we be going to this planet? Are there any miners or indigenous life forms on the planet?
DATA: I believe the answer to both questions is no, sir. In a manner of speaking, it is nothing but a lifeless hunk of rock, a useless ball of mud, a worthless chunk
RIKER: Thank you, Data. I get the idea. Captain, we are approaching Dytallix B.
PICARD (voiceover): Very good, Number One. I'm on my way.
WORF: Captain, sensors are detecting three Federation starships already in orbit around the planet.
PICARD: Identify.
WORF: Two are frigates. The Renegade commanded by Tryla Scott, and the Thomas Paine, Captain Rixx commanding.
DATA: The third is just coming into range now, sir. It is Ambassador Class heavy cruiser, USS Horatio.
RIKER: Horatio? Isn't that Walker Keel's ship?
WORF: Attempts at communication have been ignored by all three vessels.
PICARD: Make no further attempts, Mister Worf. Any life form readings on the surface, Data?
DATA: Three, sir. All gathered inside what appears to be the entrance to a mining tunnel.
PICARD: Very well. Relay those coordinates to the transporter room. I'm beaming down.
RIKER: Alone, Captain?
PICARD: Alone, Number One.

[Mine entrance]
KEEL: Thanks for coming.
PICARD: This is some greeting, old friend.
KEEL: Tell me, Jean-Luc, where did we first meet?
RIXX: Answer the question.
PICARD: Tau Ceti Three. It was a bar. Quite an exotic one as I remember. What do I win?
KEEL: Do you recall the night you introduced Jack Crusher to Beverly?
PICARD: You know full well I hadn't even met Beverly then. You introduced them.
KEEL: My brother introduced them.
PICARD: You don't have a brother. Two sisters, Anne and Melissa. What the hell is this all about?
RIXX: Apologies, Captain. We had to make sure you were really you.
PICARD: Walker, what is going on?
KEEL: Captain Picard, meet Captain Rixx.
PICARD: I believe we've met. The Altairian conference.
KEEL: And Captain Scott.
PICARD: Tryla Scott. It's said you made Captain faster than anyone in Starfleet history, present company included. Are you that good?
TRYLA: Yes, I am.
PICARD: Starfleet's finest. Fancy meeting you here.
RIXX: We all came secretly, Picard. To discuss the threat.
PICARD: What threat?
TRYLA: Have you noticed anything about Starfleet Command lately? Anything unusual?
PICARD: No. But we've been on the outer rim for a while. We haven't had much contact with them.
KEEL: Some of us have seen strange patterns emerging. Unusual orders. High-ranking officials backing irrational proposals.
RIXX: Starbase twelve was completely evacuated for two full days. No explanation given.
TRYLA: And what about the deaths? McKinney, Ryan Sipe, Onna Karapleedeez.
PICARD: All dead?
TRYLA: A series of accidents.
KEEL: Or so they say. It's hard to be certain of anything. Interfleet communications are at a minimum. But something is happening.
TRYLA: And we fully expect the Enterprise to be targeted soon.
PICARD: Targeted for what? By whom?
KEEL: We're not sure yet. Damn it, Jean-Luc. I tell you that some of Starfleet's top command people are changing. This could affect the very core of our organization. Officers I've known for years are bluffing their way through talk of old times.
RIXX: That's their weakness, a lack of memory.
TRYLA: He doesn't believe us. He thinks we're crazy.
PICARD: You've given me nothing to believe in. Just a lot of vague talk about strange patterns, irrational proposals. Who's behind this, and to what purpose? How are people being changed?
KEEL: I can't say exactly, but I think it's spread to my own ship. My First Officer hasn't been the same since we stopped off at Earth. Our Medical Officer says he's perfectly normal, but I don't think I trust him either.
PICARD: Walker!
TRYLA: We know we don't have all the answers. All we ask is that you keep your eyes open.
PICARD: That's sound advice at any time, Captain.
KEEL: Stay in touch with us, covertly. This meeting never took place as far as Starfleet is concerned. Please, I'm asking this as a personal favor. I'm glad, Jean-Luc. I'm glad you're still one of us. Tell Beverly I said hello.
RIXX: And watch your back, Picard.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Friends, close friends, are few and far between. Two of the oldest and closest are Jack Crusher, may he rest in peace, and Walker Keel. Before various missions split us apart, we were virtually inseparable. I trust Keel completely. If he felt it necessary to violate regulations, he must have had a good reason.
TROI: But you're putting your career at risk for him.
PICARD: Friendship must dare to risk, Counselor, or it's not friendship.
TROI: They illicitly used the emergency channel to draw you here. Then they asked you to keep secrets from your superiors. Effectively, to disobey Starfleet regulations.
PICARD: The people involved in this are of the highest caliber. If I didn't believe in their loyalty, I wouldn't have gone this far.
TROI: Don't you think you should tell the rest of the crew?
PICARD: No. I don't want to risk implicating them. Not until I have solid evidence that something really is wrong.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Resume heading to Pacifica, warp factor eight.
LAFORGE: Aye sir, warp eight.
DATA: At that speed sir, we should arrive nine point six three hours behind the original schedule, sir.
PICARD: Very good. Data, I have an assignment for you. One especially suited to your talents.

[Ready room]
DATA: Computer, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. Please access all Starfleet Command orders to starships, starbases and colonies for the past six months.
COMPUTER: Working.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: I understand the Horatio was in orbit around Dytallix. Did you see Walker?
PICARD: No.
CRUSHER: Oh. I would have loved to have seen him.
PICARD: It wasn't possible, Doctor.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up an unusual disturbance in a nearby quadrant.
LAFORGE: Confirmed, sir. Sector sixty three.
PICARD: Specify. What kind of disturbance?
WORF: Hard to say at this distance, sir.
RIKER: I guess the trip Pacifica will have to wait.
PICARD: Let's investigate. Maintain speed. Alter course accordingly.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Changing course to three five one mark four.
LAFORGE: Approaching sector sixty three, sir.
PICARD: Slow to impulse.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Going to impulse power, now.
WORF: Sensors beginning to pick up small objects, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: It doesn't look natural.
PICARD: Agreed. Enlarge and identify.
WORF: It looks like debris. From a space vessel of some kind.
RIKER: It could be one of those ships that was orbiting Dytallix.
LAFORGE: We are in close proximity to that planet.
PICARD: Identifying marks, Mister Worf?
WORF: Nothing so far. Sensors not detecting any bodies in the flotsam, but from the amount of wreckage. I'm sorry sir. It can only be the Horatio. From the looks of it, she's been totally destroyed. Captain's personal log, stardate 41776.1. The apparent death of Walker Keel has had a powerful impact on me. I now believe there may be a cancer growing within the ranks of Starfleet. As a result, I have alerted my Executive Officer to the suspicions voiced by Keel and the others.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: There's no proof of anything.
PICARD: The last time I saw Admiral Quinn he tried to warn me about a subversion within the Federation. Then Walker tried, and he's dead.
RIKER: Subversion? Personally, I don't believe this conspiracy theory.

[Ready room]
DATA: Startling. Quite extraordinary, in fact.
COMPUTER: Directions unclear. Please repeat request.
DATA: That was not a request. I was simply talking to myself. A human idiosyncrasy, triggered by fascination with a particular set of facts. Or sometimes brought about by senility. Or used as a means of weighing information before reaching a conclusion. Or, as a
COMPUTER: Thank you, sir. I comprehend. Please specify how you would like to proceed, sir.
DATA: Please continue with record scan. Intriguing.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: But we have no facts. We have to assume the explosion was an accident.
PICARD: Number One, I believe what happened on the Horatio was sabotage.
RIKER: But we can't be certain.
DATA: Perhaps we can. My orders were to search for abnormal patterns in Starfleet's directives. I believe I have found just that.
DATA: These are various outposts and starbases where I have detected unusual activity over the past few months.
PICARD: What sort of activity?
DATA: An uncustomary reshuffling of personnel, usually in the command areas. The new officers have had frequent contact with the highest levels of Starfleet Command.
RIKER: Why hasn't anybody discovered this before?
DATA: The orders were given with great subtlety. To use an aphorism, Starfleet's left hand did not know what its right hand was doing.
PICARD: Data, can you speculate as to the purpose of these reassignments?
DATA: I believe it is a clandestine attempt to control vital sectors of Federation territory.
RIKER: This could be a prelude to an invasion. But who's behind it?
DATA: There is insufficient data to make such an assessment, sir.
RIKER: Are you suggesting that we warp over to Starfleet headquarters and demand to know what's going on?
DATA: Why not?
PICARD: Yes, why not? We're talking about a threat to the entire future of the Federation. I don't think any of us can rest easy until we've been to the source. Captain's personal log, supplemental. While it is quite unusual for a starship to return to Earth, we seem to be left with no other choice. I have apprised the remaining bridge crew of our situation.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Approaching Earth, sir.
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Standard orbit, sir.
PICARD: Any word from Starfleet Command, Data?
DATA: Nothing so far, sir.
PICARD: Strange.
DATA: Captain. I am now receiving a message from Starfleet Command.
PICARD: On screen.
SAVAR (screen): Greetings Enterprise. I am Admiral Savar. This is Admiral Aaron, and I believe you already know Admiral Quinn.
PICARD: Yes, indeed. It's good to see you again, Admiral.
QUINN (screen): And you, Captain.
SAVAR (screen): Of course. We are always delighted when the Enterprise returns to the nest. Yet we are puzzled by the timing of your visit.
PICARD: Yes, sir. I can imagine you would be.
AARON (screen): Governor Delaplane of Pacifica informs us that you canceled your scheduled stop there. Is this true?
PICARD: Yes, sir, it is.
AARON (screen): Explain yourself, Captain. Why have you returned to Earth?
PICARD: I would rather discuss in person, Admiral.
SAVAR (screen): Excuse us for one moment, Captain.
RIKER: They seem normal enough.
PICARD: On the surface. Counselor, any thoughts?
TROI: Hard to say. Someone is hiding something, but I can't tell who or what.
RIKER: I must say I'm not overjoyed to see Remmick again.
LAFORGE: Considering what we've done, their response has been pretty temperate.
WORF: I don't like it. You can't trust them.
SAVAR (screen): Forgive the delay, Captain Picard. We'd be delighted if you and your First Officer would join us for dinner.
AARON (screen): Yes. Delighted.
SAVAR (screen): It would give you a good opportunity to expatiate your viewpoint.
AARON (screen): To elaborate upon whatever it is that's troubling you.
PICARD: Thank you. We accept your gracious offer.
SAVAR (screen): Excellent. Preparations are already underway.
AARON (screen): We'll greet you in the reception area in, say, twenty minutes?
PICARD: Splendid.
QUINN (screen): I won't be able to attend dinner, I'm afraid, but I would like to see the ship and say hello again, Captain.
PICARD: Of course. We look forward to seeing you, Admiral. Enterprise out. Quinn wants to see us alone. At least we know he's still on our side. Mister Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Starfleet Transporter room]
REMMICK: Are you ready to beam up to the Enterprise, sir?
QUINN: Yes, Commander, quite ready. Energize, Mister Remmick.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Greg.
QUINN: Good to see you.
PICARD: You remember Commander Riker.
QUINN: Hello again, Commander.
PICARD: I must say, you're looking remarkably well.
QUINN: Never felt better in my life.
PICARD: When you were here last, you were saying that you were feeling tired.
QUINN: Tired of life I was, but not anymore. I'm ready for new challenges now. What about another look at this ship?

[Corridor]
PICARD: Remember what you told me back at Relva Seven, About the threat that you perceived to the very fabric of the Federation?
QUINN: Is that why you're here? Because of what I said?
PICARD: It's one of the reasons, yes.
QUINN: But Jean-Luc, you took me far too literally. I was only referring to the problems involved in assimilating new races into the Federation. It's an ongoing, tumultuous process which can cause stress and strain on every aspect of our alliance.
PICARD: I'm sorry, I must have misunderstood.
QUINN: It's not for you to apologize. If I led you up the garden path, I humbly ask your forgiveness.
PICARD: Of course.
QUINN: Now, gentlemen, you have a dinner to attend to, while I would like to go and freshen up before I look around a little bit more.
RIKER: We've arranged your usual accommodation, sir.
QUINN: That's outstanding.
PICARD: Yes, I should be getting down to the planet. Commander Riker will be available here to show you anything that you want to see.
QUINN: It's really not necessary.
PICARD: I insist. When you've finished showing the Admiral anything that he needs, you can join me down on Earth.
QUINN: I may want to stay a while, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Of course. Stay as long as you wish. No.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: It's not Gregory Quinn. It may look like him and sound like him, but it isn't him.
RIKER: Are you absolutely certain, Captain?
PICARD: I'm certain, Number One. I want you to stay close. Keep your eye on his every move. Have Beverly concoct some reason for giving him a full medical examination.
RIKER: How?
PICARD: I don't know, just do it.
RIKER: He's a senior Admiral.
PICARD: It's not him, Will. I know that now. What I have to find out is how this happened, and who or what is behind it.
RIKER: Captain, if you're right.
PICARD: I'm right.
RIKER: Should you be beaming down there alone, unarmed?
PICARD: I'll take care. Find out what you can, then join me, in force if necessary. Energize.
RIKER: Good luck, sir.

[Starfleet Reception area]
SAVAR: Welcome home, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Thank you, sir. My first officer will be joining us shortly.
SAVAR: Yes, I'm sure he will.
AARON: You've met Commander Remmick, haven't you?
REMMICK: Under less than ideal circumstances. It's nice to see you again, Captain.
SAVAR: We've prepared a special meal in your honor.
PICARD: Delightful. Tell me, why is the corridor so quiet? The last time I was here, it was bustling with activity.
REMMICK: It usually is. Tonight's a quiet night.
SAVAR: Yes, a quiet night.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Ready for your tour, Admiral?
QUINN: Quite ready, Commander.
RIKER: What's in the case?
QUINN: Actually, I brought it for Doctor Crusher. But perhaps you would like you to see it first?
RIKER: What is it?
QUINN: A form of life. It was discovered accidentally by a survey team on an uncharted planet.
RIKER: Why haven't we heard anything about that?
QUINN: Oh, you'll be hearing about it shortly, but first there remains much scientific study to be done. After all, it is a superior form of life.
RIKER: Superior?
QUINN: Totally. Come, have a look.
RIKER: I think I'll summon my Science Officer.
QUINN: It won't like your Science Officer. It does like you! Vitamins. They do wonders for the body.
RIKER: Riker to Security. Guest quarters seventeen. Emergency.

[Ante room]
AARON: Let's have some Andonian tea while we wait for your Riker. Then you can tell us about what's brought you here.
PICARD: I see you keep up with our duty roster.
AARON: Yes, of course, Captain. The Enterprise is very important to us.
REMMICK: Excuse me, gentlemen.
AARON: To the Horatio, gentlemen.
SAVAR: The Horatio.
AARON: What an awful tragedy. Such a terrible loss of life.
PICARD: It's interesting that you should mention the Horatio. It's one of the subjects I wanted to discuss.
AARON: Really?
PICARD: Has the cause of her destruction been ascertained?
SAVAR: Absolutely. Implosion, due to extreme negligence on the part of her Captain.
AARON: Enjoy, Picard. I believe you'll find it an excellent aperitif.

[Guest quarters]
QUINN: It's good thing you're here. He slipped and hit his head.
LAFORGE: This is Lieutenant La Forge in guest quarter seventeen. We have a medical emergency.
QUINN: Your Doctor Crusher is most capable. I'm sure he'll be all right. Now if you'll excuse me, my time here is most limited.
LAFORGE: Admiral. Don't you think we should wait until the Doctor gets here?
QUINN: Now, Klingon, it's between you and me.
QUINN: Do Klingons fear death as much as humans? I could snap your neck in a second, but it wouldn't be as much fun.
WORF: Are you all right?
LAFORGE: If I could see, I'd be seeing stars.
WORF: What is he?
CRUSHER: Let's find out.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Retinal scans are an exact match It really is Quinn.
LAFORGE: How can that be? The man picked me up like a rag doll.
CRUSHER: I'm going to have to do a complete internal scan.
LAFORGE: Keep me posted, Doctor, I'll be on the Bridge.
CRUSHER: What is that?

[Ante room]
AARON: What do you know of conspiracies, Captain?
PICARD: Not nearly enough, I suppose.
AARON: That's the charming thing about them, isn't it? When a machination is real, no one knows about it. And when it's suspected, it's almost never real.
SAVAR: Except, of course, in paranoid delusions for those who believe.
REMMICK: Sorry to interrupt. Dinner is served.
AARON: Wonderful. Bantering with the Captain has given me quite an appetite.
PICARD: I need to contact my ship to let Commander Riker that we're about to sit down.
SAVAR: Of course, Captain. We'll wait for you at the table.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher here, Captain.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: May I speak freely?

[Ante room]
PICARD: I suppose I have little choice. Where's Riker?
CRUSHER (voiceover): He was attacked by Quinn, or what we thought was Quinn.
PICARD: Specify, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: A parasitic being has invaded Quinn's body. It has complete control over all brain functions. It seems to breath through a small gill protruding from the back of Quinn's neck.

[Ante room]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Look for this, Captain. I believe it will be visible on anyone who has been compromised.
PICARD: Any idea what it is or where it comes from?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Negative.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've never seen anything like it before.
DATA (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, if the situation is under control, please report to the Bridge.
WORF: Doctor?
CRUSHER: It's okay. He won't be waking up for a long time.

[Ante room]
PICARD: Continue, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): By the placement of the tendrils

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The parasite appears to stimulate the victim's adrenal glands, generate great strength

[Ante room]
CRUSHER (voiceover): And resistance to the
PICARD: Never mind the details. Can you remove it?
CRUSHER (voiceover): I don't think so.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Not without killing the patient. Captain.

[Ante room]
CRUSHER (voiceover): You must set your phaser on kill. Stun has little effect.
PICARD: Doctor, one does not beam down to Starfleet Headquarters armed.
REMMICK: Your food is getting cold, Captain.
PICARD: I'm going in to dinner now, Doctor. Tell Commander Riker to join me as soon as he's ready. Picard out.

[Dining room]
AARON: Please, sit down, Captain. We've been waiting. Go ahead and start, Captain. We don't stand on ceremony here.
AARON: Oh do eat up, Picard. Raise your hand if you want seconds.
PICARD: Riker! Thank God. We're leaving.
RIKER: You're not going anywhere. You'll be one of us soon.
AARON: You were meant for the Doctor.
RIKER: It couldn't be helped. Riker walked in on us unexpectedly.
SAVAR: No matter. The Doctor will soon be joining us. All in good time.
SAVAR: Well, Captain Scott. Good. Now the setting is complete.
AARON: You don't really think we were in the dark about your intentions, do you?
SAVAR: Patience is one of our virtues, Captain. We didn't go after you, we allowed you to come after us.
AARON: More dramatic that way, don't you think?
TRYLA: Yes, the one thing both races share is a love of theater. And you've put on a fine show.
PICARD: What race are you? Where are you from?
SAVAR: It's not important. Let us just say we've come a long way to join you.
TRYLA: It's a perfect match. We're the brains, you're the brawn.
RIKER: You'll understand soon, Picard.
SAVAR: Indeed. We've been moving slowly, cautiously, for many months now. Careful to cover our tracks. Careful not to arouse suspicion, until it's too late.
RIKER: And now it's too late. For you, that is.
AARON: Well said, brother. Picard and Riker control the Enterprise, which means we control the Enterprise.
SAVAR: Eat hearty, brother! Relish your new body!
PICARD: Aaron!

[Hallway]
PICARD: Aaron!

[Room]
REMMICK: Can I help you, gentlemen? Is there any trouble here? Perhaps if you'd tell me what it is
PICARD: Remmick!
PICARD: No, Will.
REMMICK: You don't understand. We mean you no harm. We seek peaceful co-existence.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 41780.2. How difficult after all these years of learning to respect life, to be forced to destroy it. But there seems to be no alternative. Admiral Quinn is expected to make a full recovery. There is no trace of the parasite which took control of him. We'll never know how many of these life forms infiltrated Starfleet, but it seems they could not survive without the mother creature which had taken over Commander Remmick.

[Bridge]
RIKER: It was Doctor Crusher's idea to simulate the blue gill. We had to make sure it would fool everyone, including you.
PICARD: That it did, Number One. Rest assured.
DATA: Captain, I have attempted to trace the message Remmick was sending. I believe it was aimed at an unexplored sector of our galaxy.
LAFORGE: Any idea what the message was, Data?
DATA: I believe it was a beacon.
PICARD: A beacon?
DATA: Yes, sir. A homing beacon, sent from Earth.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I wonder how it got out here.
WORF: At its present speed and heading, it will eventually enter the Kazis binary system and will certainly be destroyed. I could attach a tractor beam and adjust its heading.
RIKER: I think not, Mister Worf. It's just a piece of space debris. If we hadn't sitting here waiting for the Captain, we wouldn't have noticed it. Leave it be. Let nature take its course. How long until Captain Picard returns?
WORF: The last communication indicated it would be several hours.
DATA: Commander, request permission to investigate this vehicle.
RIKER: Why, Data? It's just a derelict.
DATA: It is a piece of history. The opportunity to examine such an ancient vehicle does not come around very often, and as you pointed out, we do have the time.
RIKER: Very well. Be prepared to beam back before the Captain returns.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, go with him.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Derelict ship]
DATA: Minimal oxygen atmosphere. An ancient solar generator, still operating.
WORF: Commander, look at this.
DATA: The on-board computers have ceased functioning. I may be able to download this old style disk drive back to the Enterprise.
WORF: It must be sealed, probably with age.
DATA: Not necessary.

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: The seal was broken and the environment has been corrupted.
WORF: Here's another.
DATA: This one is empty.
WORF: Commander, look at this.
WORF: Were they frozen for an extended journey?
DATA: If that were the purpose, there would be evidence of a more sophisticated monitoring system. These containers were designed solely for refrigeration.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The Captain's shuttle is approaching the main Shuttlebay, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Enterprise, this is the Captain. Number One, I want to get underway as soon as the shuttle is secure.
RIKER: Aye, sir. We'll make all preparations. Commander Data, return to the Enterprise immediately.
DATA (voiceover): We have run into an unusual situation, sir. There are people on board. Frozen.
RIKER: Frozen. How many?

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: Three. The vehicle has suffered severe damage. Most of her systems have failed.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you suggesting they be transferred to the Enterprise?

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: I do not believe we should leave them here, sir. With your permission, we will be returning with three containers.
RIKER (voiceover): Whatever you do, do it quickly.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, set course zero five eight, mark one seven three.
LAFORGE: Laying it in, sir.
PICARD: Number One, I want a staff meeting on the observation deck.
LAFORGE: Captain, those coordinates will take us right into the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: That is correct, Mister La Forge. Warp factor eight.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp eight.
PICARD: Engage.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Two Federation outposts in sector three zero have been destroyed. There's been no communication with Federation starbases in sector three one since stardate 41903.2.
WORF: Romulans.
PICARD: That's the assumption.
RIKER: There's been no direct contact with the Romulans since the Tomed Incident.
PICARD: The question are, why now? What's their objective? For fifty years there's barely a whisper out of them, and now for no apparent reason they seem to be back with a roar.
RIKER: Everything we know about them is based on rumor or conjecture.
PICARD: The strategic decision is to send one ship.
RIKER: The Enterprise.
WORF: We could get out there and find ourselves greatly over-matched.
PICARD: True enough. It's a gamble.
RIKER: This first encounter, coming so suddenly after all this time. We have to assume it's a setup.
PICARD: If force is necessary, we will use it, but that will mean we have failed. Our goal here is to establish some kind of relations with the Romulans. If we don't succeed, then to convince them of our resolve. The general feeling at Starfleet is that they are seeking a confrontation. They may want to test themselves in battle against a Federation starship. See how far we have advanced. If that is the case, then I need to know it. Counselor, I shall need a full profile on them.
TROI: There is limited information, but I will prepare something.
PICARD: Computer, estimated arrival time at the Neutral Zone?
COMPUTER: Nineteen hours, twenty eight minutes.
PICARD: Let's reassemble in six hours. Stay sharp. No surprises. I would rather outthink them than outfight them. Questions?

[Sickbay]
PICARD: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: It's the people from the capsule.
PICARD: Capsule? People? What people?
CRUSHER: The people Data beamed over.
PICARD: I wasn't aware that he had.
CRUSHER: Well he did, and they were frozen. I thawed them.
PICARD: You what?
CRUSHER: I didn't know what else to do. The crypts in which they were frozen were literally falling apart.
PICARD: So what's their condition?
CRUSHER: Right now, they are all sleeping. Each of them needed minor medical attention. Minor now, but then their conditions were obviously terminal. One had a heart problem, another had an advanced case of emphysema with extensive liver damage. You know the most surprising thing of all, is that each of them had been frozen after they died.
PICARD: After they died?
CRUSHER: Cryonics. It was a kind of fad in the late twentieth century. People feared dying. It terrified them. At the moment of death, they would be frozen, so that later, some time in the future, when presumably medical science had a cure for whatever killed them, they could be thawed back to life, healed, and sent on about their business.
PICARD: In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data, will you report to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Immediately.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Look, I am never critical of any member of my staff being curious, but it's just that the timing is so
DATA: I could not leave them there, Captain. The condition of their vehicle was deteriorating.
PICARD: But Data, they were already dead. I mean, what more could have happened to them?
DATA: I see your point, Captain, but at the time it seemed the proper thing to do.
PICARD: Well, they're alive now. We're going to have to treat them as living human beings.
CRUSHER: Alive and well and ready to be awakened.
PICARD: Before you wake them up, I want to have Security here. Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I have them sedated now, but they should be up and about as soon as possible.
PICARD: Well, then we have no other choice.
CRUSHER: None that I can see.
PICARD: Welcome to the twenty fourth century.
DATA: I was able to retrieve some information from the ancient disk I removed from the module's computer. Her name is Clare Raymond, age thirty five, occupation homemaker. Must be some kind of construction work.
CRUSHER: She died of an embolism. It probably happened very suddenly, otherwise her physical condition was excellent.
DATA: His name is Ralph Offenhouse, age fifty five, occupation financier.
CRUSHER: Advanced cardiomyopathy. Inoperable at the time, but easily correctable now. He must have known his condition was terminal for quite some time.
DATA: Much of his file we could not retrieved. His name is L Q Sonny Clemonds. Apparently his occupation had something to do with music.
CRUSHER: There was marked deterioration of every system in his body. Probably from massive chemical abuse. Unbelievable.
PICARD: That sounds like someone who hated life. Yet he had himself frozen presumably so he could go through it all again.
CRUSHER: Too afraid to live, too scared to die.
PICARD: Doctor, this seems to be a situation more suited to your talents. I'll leave it with you. I'll be on the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, kindly take charge of our guests until we have time to decide what we're going to do with them.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, keep them out of my way.

[Guest lounge]
RIKER: I know this is all very confusing to you so I'll attempt to explain. You are on the starship USS Enterprise.
RALPH: American?
RIKER: No, it's a vessel of the United Federation of Planets, and Earth is a member.
RALPH: What year is this?
DATA: By your calendar two thousand three hundred sixty four.
RALPH: What? My heart, is it?
CRUSHER: It's perfectly fine. In fact, you are all now in excellent health.
RALPH: It worked. I made it.
SONNY: What is that?
RIKER: An android.
SONNY: You mean a robot?
DATA: Actually there is a distinct difference between an android and a robot.
CLARE: And him? The one I saw before, with the head?
CRUSHER: She means Worf.
RIKER: He's a Klingon. That takes a little more explanation.
SONNY: Now, listen, guys. I paid some idiot a lot of money to freeze me when I died, and I just got to hear the words. Am I alive?
RIKER: Oh, yes. Absolutely.
SONNY: And the liver that was about to explode in my face?
CRUSHER: Perfectly sound.
CLARE: Excuse me, could someone please tell me what's going on here?
CRUSHER: About three hundred and seventy years ago, you died of a massive embolism.
CLARE: I don't remember anything about that.
CRUSHER: You and the others were frozen.
SONNY: Cryonics. You know, freeze you now and heal you later.
CLARE: Yeah, I've heard of it. I just never gave it much thought. How did we get here?
DATA: You were in a space module.
SONNY: The whacko who sold me this scam said that by putting us in orbit there weren't gonna be no chance of a brown out.
RALPH: Yes, several cryonics companies fell into disrepute because of power failures which adversely affected their refrigeration system. Their stocks were severely depressed.
SONNY: The whole deal was a long shot but I figured what the hell, might as well give them the dough instead of leaving it to my ex-wives. But you know, son, I figured it was all just a bunch of hooey.
DATA: Hooey? Ah, as in hogwash, malarky, jive. An intentional fabrication.
SONNY: There you go, now you got it.
RIKER: Now, if you didn't contract for this, who did?
CLARE: It must have been my husband, Donald. If it was new and foolish, he would have popped for it. Well, I'll say this for it. It's the first thing he's ever bought into that worked.
RALPH: I, for one, never had a doubt. My stock in this company must have split at least a dozen times by now.
DATA: Actually, the process of cryonics was never more than a fad, and did not continue much beyond the mid-twenty first century.
RALPH: I need to make a phone call as soon as possible.
RIKER: A phone call?
RALPH: Yes. I have provided for myself. I have a substantial portfolio. It's critical that I check on it. Let the bank know that I am alive and well.
RIKER: Ah, that's going to be a little difficult right at the moment.
RALPH: Well, do you at least have a copy of The Wall Street Journal?
RIKER: I think we should take the Doctor's advice. Take this very slowly until we've all adjusted, and then we'll talk to the Captain.

[Bridge]
TROI: As you know, there is very little available on the Romulans.
PICARD: Counselor, anything would be helpful.
TROI: They seem to be creatures of extremes. One moment violent beyond description, the next tender. They are related to the Vulcans, but as each race developed, their differences grew wider. They are intensely curious. Their belief in their own superiority is beyond arrogance. For some reason they have exhibited a fascination with humans and it is that fascination, more than anything else, that has kept the peace. One other thing. They will not initiate anything. They will wait for you to commit yourself.
PICARD: Counter-punchers. Thank you, Counselor. That's quite valuable.

[Guest lounge]
DATA: Talk.
SONNY: I'd like me a thick Kansas City steak, and some country fried potatoes, and a mess of greens. Oh, hell, just forget all that and give me have a martini, straight up, with two olives. For the vitamins.
DATA: Is there something wrong?
SONNY: Wrong? Only that your computer here fixed about the best martini I have ever had. I just might get to like this place. Let's see if the Braves are on. How do you turn on this teevee?
RIKER: TV?
SONNY: Yeah, the boob tube. I'd like to see how the Braves are doing after all this time. Probably still finding ways to lose.
DATA: I believe he means television, sir. That particular form of entertainment did not last much beyond the year two thousand forty.
SONNY: Well, what do you guys do? I mean, you don't drink, and you ain't got no TV. Must be kind of boring, ain't it?
PICARD (voiceover): Number One.
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: Would you and Mister Data report to the Bridge?
RIKER: At once, sir.
RALPH: With whom were you speaking?
RIKER: The Captain.
RALPH: Good. Would you tell him I would like to see him as soon as it's convenient?
CLARE: What's going to happen to us? Do we stay here with you? Do we go back to Earth?
RIKER: That will all be up to the Captain.
RALPH: Well, get him in here. I have to phone Geneva right away about my accounts. The interest alone could be enough to buy this ship.
SONNY: The Yankee's right. Let's get the big boy in here.
RIKER: I'll pass along your request. If you'll excuse us.
SONNY: Duty calls. Hey, I understand. Why don't you come back later on. You and me'll find us a couple of low mileage pit woofies, and help'em build a memory.

[Corridor]
DATA: What is to be done with them, sir?
RIKER: I don't know.
DATA: Commander, a low mileage pit woofie?
RIKER: This time you've got me. I haven't a clue.
DATA: These are the most unusual humans I have ever encountered.
RIKER: Well, from what I've seen of our guests, there's not much to redeem them. It makes one wonder how our species survived the twenty-first century.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Report.
WORF: We are six hours from the Neutral Zone. I have been unable to establish communications with any Federation colony or station in this vicinity.
PICARD: How many outposts are there in this sector?
WORF: Nine.
RIKER: I think we work on the assumption they've all been destroyed.
LAFORGE: By the Romulans?
RIKER: It fits their historical pattern.
DATA: Since we have no contact with the Romulans for fifty three years, seven months, eighteen days, we must consider that the information we do have, is out of date.
RIKER: The positive side of that is the information they have about us is also out of date. Captain, I think it's that lack of information that this is all about.
PICARD: Go on.
RIKER: In my opinion, the Romulans want a confrontation specifically with us.
PICARD: The Enterprise?
RIKER: Well, not by name, but the Federation. They know the Federation will send their best. That'll give them a perfect chance to see firsthand how far we've advanced both in technology and technique.
PICARD: What are you recommending?
RIKER: I'm not sure I have a specific recommendation. Perhaps we should assume the initiative.
WORF: I agree with Commander Riker. This may be our only opportunity. We should seize it.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The strategy is built on a single premise. The hostile intent of the Romulans. If the premise is sound, so is the proposal.
LAFORGE: If their intention isn't hostile, what is it?
RALPH (voiceover): Captain Picard?
PICARD: This is Captain Picard. To whom am I speaking?
RALPH (voiceover): Ralph Offenhouse.

[Guest lounge]
RALPH: I need to talk to you.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What is going on here, Number One? Did you give him permission to contact me?
RIKER: Of course not. He must have seen me use the comm. panel.
PICARD: Listen, Mister Offenhouse. We're in a very important conference right now.
RALPH (voiceover): I'm sick and tired of being put off

[Guest lounge]
RALPH: By you and your staff. This is the worst run ship I have ever been on.

[Ready room]
RALPH (voiceover): You should take some lessons from the QE Two. Now that's an efficient operation.
PICARD: Data, identify. What is a QE Two?
DATA: It was a passenger liner which mostly traveled Earth's Atlantic Ocean during the late twentieth and early twenty first centuries.
PICARD: He's comparing the Enterprise to a cruise ship?
RALPH (voiceover): Captain Picard, I demand that you see me. I think I have been very, very patient.

[Guest lounge]
RALPH: I demand a phone, or a radio whatever else you have. Frankly, enough is enough. Especially under the circumstances, and considering what I paid for this procedure! I must make contact with my law
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard.
RALPH: Excellent. Now, maybe we'll be able to get some things straightened out.
PICARD: We may indeed. Those comm. panels are for official ship business.
RALPH: If they are so important, why don't they need an executive key?
PICARD: Aboard a starship, that is not necessary. We are all capable of exercising self-discipline. Now, you will refrain from using them.
RALPH: Now just a minute.
PICARD: We are in a very serious and potentially dangerous situation.
RALPH: I'm sure whatever it is seems very important to you, but my situation is far more critical.
PICARD: I don't think you are aware of your situation, or of how much time has passed.
RALPH: Believe me, I'm fully cognisant of where I am, and when. It is simply that I have more to protect than a man in your position could possibly imagine. No offense, but a military career has never been considered to be upwardly mobile. I must contact my lawyer.
PICARD: Your lawyer has been dead for centuries.
RALPH: Yes, of course I know that, but he was a full partner in a very important firm. Rest assured, that firm is still operating.
PICARD: That's what this is all about. A lot has changed in the past three hundred years. People are no longer obsessed with the accumulation of things. We've eliminated hunger, want, the need for possessions. We have grown out of our infancy.
RALPH: You've got it all wrong. It's never been about possessions. It's about power.
PICARD: Power to do what?
RALPH: To control your life, your destiny.
PICARD: That kind of control is an illusion.
RALPH: Really? I'm here, aren't I? I should be dead but I'm not.
PICARD: What is it?
CLARE: I don't know. It just started and it won't stop. I keep thinking about my boys.
PICARD: Counselor Troi, will you report to the guest lounge?
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we are approaching Science Station Delta Zero Five.
PICARD: Slow to half impulse. I'm on my way.
SONNY: Captain, I need to see that pretty little Doctor of yours.
PICARD: I'll inform her.
RALPH: Captain. I didn't mean to come on so strong. It's just that I've built my whole life on knowing what's going on. For the first time I feel completely out of touch. It's making me crazy. You can understand that?
PICARD: It's the first thing you've said I do understand. I'll see what I can do. And, please, stay off the comm. panels.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Counselor, will you get those people under control. We cannot afford this continuing distraction.
TROI: Yes, sir.

[Clare's quarters]
TROI: Hello. My name is Deanna.
CLARE: They sent you here to settle me down?
TROI: I'm the ship's Counselor and I thought you might want to talk.
CLARE: The local shrink.
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that term.
CLARE: It doesn't matter.
TROI: You're feeling profoundly sad.
CLARE: I can't stop crying. I miss my sons, and then I think I'm here, but they are gone. Donald, that's my husband. I love that man but, good intentions aside, he'd mess up a free lunch. Why on Earth he ever decided to do this?
TROI: He must have thought you would have wanted it.
CLARE: No, I can tell you exactly what happened. He couldn't think about going on alone. I died and he couldn't face it, so he figured if he had me frozen, then in his mind I wasn't really gone. It sounds crazy, but you had to know Donald. I wish I knew what happened to my children. Did they get married, did they have kids?
TROI: Let's see if we can find out. Computer, this is Counselor Troi. Request personal history on. What are their names?
CLARE: Tommy. He's eight, and Eddie's five.
COMPUTER: Full names, date and place of birth.
CLARE: They were born in Secaucus, that's in Jersey. Can this really work? Can this tell me what's happened to them?
TROI: Well, there must be a record somewhere. There is a good chance we can find it.
CLARE: Well, whether we do or not, I want to thank you for trying. Date of birth. Tommy was born February seventeenth

[Sickbay]
SONNY: I just got to have a little something to jump start the morning, and a little something else to shut down the night.
CRUSHER: You have no medical need.
SONNY: It ain't a question of need, darling. It's a matter of survival.
CRUSHER: Sorry.
SONNY: Not to worry. Old Watosh'll scuffle along the best way he can. How do I get a hold of that feller with the strange looking face?
CRUSHER: I beg your pardon?
SONNY: What's his name. That android fella.
CRUSHER: You mean Lieutenant Commander Data?
SONNY: That's the one.
CRUSHER: I'll let him know you're looking for him.
SONNY: Much obliged. You know, you're just about the prettiest little old Doctor I ever seen.
CRUSHER: Much obliged.

[Clare's quarters]
CLARE: This is amazing. It's all right here.
TROI: Ten generations of your progeny.
CLARE: Everyone I've ever known is dead. Do you mind? I'd like to be alone.
TROI: No, not at all.

[Sonny's quarters]
DATA: You asked to see me.
SONNY: Look, I'm about to go out of my mind for something to do. I mean, sitting here alone just don't get it. What say you and I put together a little party?
DATA: A celebration?
SONNY: No, nothing that fancy. Just some folks, some suds, and some sounds. Hell, it ain't nothing but something to do.
DATA: I will speak to the Captain.
SONNY: Great, you do that.
DATA: Inquiry. You do not seem to be having as much difficulty adjusting to your current circumstances as the others.
SONNY: You mean being here on this tub four hundred years from where I started? Heck, it's the same dance, it's just a different tune. You think anybody here's got a guitar I could borrow?
DATA: No, but the computer can replicate such an instrument.
SONNY: I was kind of hoping to get one while I still remember the chords.
RIKER (voiceover): Commander Data, we are approaching the Neutral Zone. Report to the Bridge.
DATA: I must leave now.
SONNY: What's this Neutral Zone?
DATA: It is a buffer between the Romulan Empire and the Federation.
SONNY: Why does that make me nervous?
DATA: I do not know.
SONNY: We won't be inviting these Romulans to our party, will we?
DATA: No, that would not be appropriate.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the edge of the Neutral Zone, where we will now have an opportunity to learn firsthand what happened to our distant outpost.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, there is nothing left of Outpost Delta Zero Five.
LAFORGE: Must have been one hell of an explosion.
DATA: Sensors indicate no evidence of conventional attack.
PICARD: Can you determine what happened?
WORF: The outpost was not just destroyed, it's as though some great force just scooped it off the face of the planet.
PICARD: Could it have been a natural phenomenon?
WORF: Insufficient information, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: Set course for the next closest station.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Guest lounge]
RALPH: I have spent my career being able to tell when the other guy's mouth is dry. There is something going on here. Something serious. The tension level on this ship has jumped up.
SONNY: Even if you're right, what can we do about it? And besides, these old boys here don't need us telling them where the bear sits. Look here what that young fella made for me.
CLARE: How did he do that?
SONNY: He called it a pattern replication. It plays real good, too.
RALPH: I'm trying to tell you that there is a situation developing on this vessel that directly affects us, and all you can talk about is that stupid guitar!
SONNY: Hey, now, these folks don't need us swimming in their soup, so why don't you just relax and let'em do their jobs?
RALPH: That may be all right for you, but I am not willing to allow my fate to be decided by others. I at least want to know what is going on.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We are approaching Tarod Nine.
DATA: The condition is identical, Captain.
WORF: Everyone and everything is gone.
RIKER: Captain, I strongly recommend that we go to Red Alert. If the Romulans have improved their cloaking device, and we'd be fools to believe they haven't, we should assume a more defensive posture.
WORF: I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle stations.
PICARD: I appreciate your advice and concern, but this is not the time for rash actions. We are still investigating. There are three other stations in this sector we have to visit. Let's proceed in a calm and orderly manner.
RIKER: If not battle stations, may we at least take the ship to Yellow Alert?
PICARD: Yes, Number One. That would be prudent. Make it so.

[Turbolift]
RALPH: Ah, let's see. I want to go to the, er. Where would the Captain be?
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is located on the main Bridge.
RALPH: Well then, take me to the main Bridge.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, my sensors indicate a disturbance. It is large and moving, but I cannot get a positive lock nor can I get it on the viewscreen.
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Captain, I recommend we transfer all power to phasers, and arm the photon torpedoes.
PICARD: Wait. If that is a Romulan ship, they will read our intent. It'll force them into taking a similar posture. We don't want to engage in battle.
RIKER: Captain, this is sufficient evidence. Outposts have been destroyed. Countless lives have been lost.
WORF: I have a positive lock. They're disengaging their cloaking device.
RIKER: They'll only be vulnerable for an instant as they become visible.
WORF: Captain, this may be our only chance.
PICARD: No.
RIKER: Where are they?
WORF: The signal is weakening.
WORF: I've lost them.
PICARD: Damn. Mister Data, are your sensors picking up anything? You should be detecting a disturbance.
DATA: Negative, sir.
LAFORGE: We wanted to know if they have improved the cloaking device. Guess we have our answer.
PICARD: They were trying to determine our intent. They wanted to see if we would fire.
RALPH: Who the hell are they?
RIKER: Get that man off the Bridge, now.
RALPH: I'm not going anywhere.
WORF: Captain, they're back.
RIKER: Amazing. I never thought I would ever see a Romulan ship. Not this close.
LAFORGE: The last time we encountered them was decades ago. Cost thousands of lives.
RALPH: I can believe that.
PICARD: Stay calm, everyone. Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Captain, these are Romulans. They are without honor. They killed my parents in an attack on Khitomer when they were supposed to be our allies. They believe humans and Klingons are a waste of skin.
PICARD: Lieutenant, control your emotions. Please, open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Hailing frequencies open.
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
DATA: Sensors indicate all of their systems are armed, sir.
PICARD: But they've not fired. Let's try them again.
TEBOK (screen): I am Commander Tebok.
PICARD: Commander, you have crossed the Neutral Zone. This is Federation territory.
THEI (screen): It was necessary.
PICARD: It might be viewed as an act of aggression.
THEI (screen): If our intent were aggression, you would not be here now.
TEBOK (screen): If we go to war, let us be sure it is for the right reason. We are here because our outposts, which border the Neutral Zone, were also attacked.
THEI (screen): Destroyed in the exact same manner as your own.
WORF: Even so, what gives them the right to enter Federation space?
TEBOK (screen): Silence your dog, Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf's question is valid.
THEI (screen): To even to ask such a question implies that we need permission. We do not.
PICARD: Do you think that we attacked your outposts?
TEBOK (screen): Once we realized the level of destruction, we knew it could not have been you.
PICARD: Who is responsible?
RALPH: They haven't got a clue. They're hoping you know, but they're too arrogant to ask.
RIKER: You're out of line, Mister.
PICARD: Yes, but it's a correct assessment.
TEBOK (screen): We do not know who is responsible. Why entire outposts on both sides have been carried off.
PICARD: I would like to offer a proposal.
THEI (screen): An alliance? Between the Romulans and the Federation?
PICARD: Nothing so grandiose. Just this. Cooperation. There was an intent here. Whoever or whatever did this is more powerful than either of us. Let's collaborate. Let's share whatever we learn about what has happened here.
THEI (screen): Agreed. On this one issue. And only if it is convenient and appropriate at the time.
TEBOK (screen): Captain Picard, because your actions are those of a thoughtful man, I'll you this. Matters more urgent caused our absence. Now, witness the result. Outposts destroyed, expansion of the Federation everywhere. Yes, we have indeed been negligent, Captain. But no more.
PICARD: Commander, we have made some progress here. Let's not ruin that with unnecessary posturing.
TEBOK (screen): Your presence is not wanted. Do you understand my meaning, Captain? We are back.
PICARD: I think our lives just became a lot more complicated. Get him off my Bridge.

[Clare's quarters]
TROI: I've found something. I have been able to locate a family living outside of Indianapolis. The man's name is Thomas Raymond.
CLARE: That's my son's name. My son's name is Tommy.
TROI: Computer, let us see Thomas Raymond.
CLARE: Oh, my God. That's Donald. That's my husband.
TROI: Actually, it's your great, great, great, great, great grandson.
CLARE: He's the spitting image.
TROI: Well, I have his address. When you get back to Earth, you can go and see him.
CLARE: No, I'll be out of time. A relic.
TROI: Perhaps. But it's a place to start. After all, he is family.
CLARE: There's no denying that.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Here's what I propose. You can't stay on the Enterprise, but I have arranged for us to rendezvous with the USS Charleston, bound for Earth. They will deliver you there.
RALPH: Then what will happen to us? There's no trace of my money. My office is gone. What will I do? How will I live?
PICARD: This is the twenty fourth century. Material needs no longer exist.
RALPH: Then what's the challenge?
PICARD: The challenge, Mister Offenhouse, is to improve yourself. To enrich yourself. Enjoy it.
SONNY: Well, one good thing is, since everybody's forgotten everything I ever did, it'll all be brand spanking new. I'll be a bigger hit than I ever was.
PICARD: Perhaps so. Anything is possible.
SONNY: What say you, son. You'd make a hell of a sideman.
DATA: That offer does present a certain fascination.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, I have plotted a course to intercept the Charleston, but they've just informed me that they'll be making an extended stop at Arloff Nine.
PICARD: Your point, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, at warp eight, we could have our guests at Starbase Thirty Nine Sierra in five days. Take months off their journey.
PICARD: But they'll benefit from the extended time. It will allow them to acclimate before returning to Earth.
RIKER: It's a pity we can't take them ourselves. Having them on board is like a visit from the past.
PICARD: That would take us in the wrong direction. Our mission is to go forward, and it's just begun. Set velocity. Warp six, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp six.
PICARD: There's still much to do. Still so much to learn. Mister La Forge, engage.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Repulse shuttle has cleared docking bay three.
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Hailing frequencies opened.
RIKER: Repulse, this is the Enterprise. We are getting underway.
REPULSE (voiceover): Acknowledged, Enterprise. Transfer complete. Good luck on your mission.
RIKER: And to you.
REPULSE (voiceover): Give my regards to your Captain. Repulse out.
WESLEY: Shuttlebay is secure, sir.
RIKER: Thank you, Mister Crusher. Make all preparations to get underway.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: We're constructing the enclosure on cargo deck five.
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The transfer's been complete. Doctor Pulaski is being shown to her quarters. We're ready to get underway.
PICARD: Grand. Take a look at the containment module our Chief Engineer has designed.
RIKER: Chief Engineer. It still has a nice ring to it.
LAFORGE: Each of these units will have total environmental control. Gravity, temperature, atmosphere, light, all in a protective stasis field.
RIKER: And these get put into the large containment unit.
LAFORGE: Right. See, these modules will keep the specimens alive, but it's this large containment area that's going to keep us alive. Now, I have to go and replicate this five hundred and twelve times, which means I'll have to divert power from the warp engines to the replicator for a while.
PICARD: How long will we be on impulse power?
LAFORGE: A couple of hours. Can't be helped.
RIKER: When we leave 'audet Nine, I'm going to need all the power you can slam into those warp engines.
LAFORGE: You'll have it.
PICARD: I'll relieve you at zero three zero zero.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. Set course for 'audet Nine.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Course for 'audet Nine has been input.
RIKER: Maximum impulse velocity.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Engage.
DATA: Engineering, this is Science One. I have just observed what appeared to be a random energy transference.

[La Forge's office]
LAFORGE: Where?
DATA (voiceover): Aft. Outboard of the port nacelle.
LAFORGE: Hold on, I'll check.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: No, I show nothing here, Data.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Problem, Commander?
DATA: Possibility, sir. An unexplained power fluctuation.
RIKER: Let me know if it reoccurs.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42073.1. There has been an outbreak of an unclassified plasma plague in the Rachelis system. We are on an emergency run to collect specimens of the deadly plague and transport them to Science Station Tango Sierra, where hopefully an antidote can be produced.

[Cargo deck five]
LAFORGE: How's it going?
CREWMAN: Finished. Just waiting to insert the modules.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Lieutenant La Forge says we will be able to engage the warp drive within the hour.
PICARD: Grand. Mister Data, when we have a complete list of all the specimens we will be carrying, I want you and Doctor er,
DATA: Pulaski, sir.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski. I want you to go through them.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: By the way, where is our new doctor? Has she reported in?
RIKER: Not yet.
PICARD: Sickbay, this is the captain.
SICKBAY: Sickbay, aye.
PICARD: Is Doctor Pulaski there?
SICKBAY (voiceover): Er, no, sir. The Doctor is in Ten forward.
PICARD: Thank you.
SICKBAY (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: A few hours on board and already she's found Ten forward.
RIKER: I'll go get her.
PICARD: No. I'll go.
WORF: Not the best way to meet your new Captain.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck ten, forward station one.
WESLEY: Hello, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign. I'm sorry this mission will delay your reunion with your mother.
WESLEY: That's all right. That will give me the time to finish some projects I have to do. It's going to be hard leaving the Enterprise.
PICARD: Mixed feelings for all of us. It's always difficult leaving any ship, just as it was for your mother

[Corridor]
PICARD: When she left to become head of Starfleet Medical. But going from one assignment to another is part of the life which you are choosing.
WESLEY: I know, but this isn't any ship.
PICARD: How true.

[Ten forward]
PICARD: Guinan.
GUINAN: Captain.
PICARD: Where is Doctor Pulaski? Thank you. (Picard goes over to a table by a window occupied by Troi and another woman. Everyone say Hi! to Ann Mulhall, or Miranda Jones if you prefer)
PICARD: Doctor Katherine Pulaski?
PULASKI: Ah you must be Captain Picard.
PICARD: Doctor, protocol may have been lax on your last assignment, but here on the Enterprise.
PULASKI: Sit down, Captain. You'd better listen to this.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, status report.
LAFORGE (voiceover): The containment area is completed, Captain, and the last of the modules are being inserted.
PICARD: Take us to warp six as soon as possible.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Acknowledged.
PICARD: This is Doctor Katherine Pulaski. We will handle the formal introduction later. Counselor Deanna Troi is pregnant. She is going to have a baby.
RIKER: Baby? This is a surprise.
TROI: More so for me.
PULASKI: This pregnancy is unlike anything I have ever encountered. Since she came to me a few hours ago, I have done two complete examinations of Counselor Troi. This is from the first examination. The fetus is about halfway through the first trimester, about six weeks old. Now, understand we believe conception took place eleven hours ago.
RIKER: What?
PULASKI: It gets better. This is the second exam one hour later. Now, it's consistent, except for the fact that it appears the fetus is several weeks older. At this growth rate, Counselor Troi will have her baby in about thirty six hours. The normal gestation rate for a Betazoid is ten months.
RIKER: I don't mean to be indelicate, but who's the father?
TROI: Last night, while I slept, something which I can only describe as a presence, entered my body.
PICARD: A life form of unknown origin and intent is breeding right now inside Counselor Troi. Our purpose here is to determine what is to be done about this very unusual situation. Discussion.
RIKER: No, wait. Let me get this straight. Deanna was impregnated by by what? Doctor, what do the tests show? Is it a humanoid? An alien?
PULASKI: It's a male human, or in this case half-human half-Betazoid.
RIKER: Exactly the same as Deanna.
PULASKI: In every way. In fact, there is nothing to indicate that there are any genetic patterns other than hers.
RIKER: I don't think this is a random occurrence. I think there's a purpose here. A reason. What, I don't know.
WORF: Captain, obviously the pregnancy must be terminated for the safety of the ship and crew.
RIKER: Worf, you can't assume the intent was belligerent.
WORF: That is the safest assumption.
DATA: Captain, this is a life form. Not to allow it to develop naturally would deny us the opportunity to study it.
WORF: If the fetus is aborted, laboratory analysis is still possible.
RIKER: Doctor, is there any health risk to Counselor Troi if the fetus is aborted?
TROI: Captain, do whatever you feel is necessary to protect the ship and the crew, but know this. I'm going to have this baby.
PICARD: Then it seems that the discussion is over.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have finally arrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasma plague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives are at stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such great risk. Meanwhile, Counselor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress at an astonishing rate.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How are you feeling?
TROI: I should be feeling uncomfortable with all the changes in my body but, I don't. I feel fine. Better than fine. Wonderful.
RIKER: Standard orbit.
WESLEY: Standard orbit, sir.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Hailing frequencies open.
PICARD: 'Audet Nine, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
DEALT (screen): Ah, the Enterprise, here at last. Well, good. Let's get going.
PICARD: Excuse me, to whom am I speaking?
DEALT (screen): To whom are you speaking? Oh I'm Lieutenant Commander Hester Dealt, Medical Trustee, Federation Medical Collection Station.
PICARD: Are the specimens ready for transfer?
DEALT (screen): Yes, but with your permission I would like to inspect the containment area before we proceed. Now it's not that I doubt the ability of your crew, but we cannot afford a mistake.
PICARD: I appreciate your caution. In the like vein, I want a complete, detailed manifest of everything you intend to bring on board my ship.
DEALT (screen): Very good. I will allow access you to my computer banks, okay?
PICARD: Mister Data, download the inventory and cross-reference it with the medical computer. Number One, arrange to have Hester Dealt transported up.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Although it's been fourteen hours since we arrived at 'audet Nine. Hester Dealt has still not completed inspection of the containment unit. A transfer will not be permitted until he's assured of zero growth during our voyage. Meanwhile, the desperate pleas from the Rachelis System continue.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the final manifest has been received.
PICARD: At last. Review it with Doctor Pulaski. I want you both to be completely familiar with it.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
TROI: Data, will you help me get to Sickbay.

[Pulaski's office]
TROI: It's time.
PULASKI: Oh, you bet it is. Let's get you to Maternity.
DATA: Worf, assemble your security team in Sickbay.
PULASKI: Is that necessary?
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Captain's orders.
PULASKI: Well, it's strange to need armed guards in a delivery room. This way.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: How frequent are your contractions?
TROI: Very close together.
PULASKI: In my other deliveries, except for a couple, the father was always present.
TROI: Difficult under the circumstances.
DATA: Perhaps I could serve in that capacity.
PULASKI: Counselor Troi is going to need the comfort of a human touch, not the cold hand of technology.
TROI: Doctor, I think Commander Data will do very nicely.
PULASKI: Your choice.
TROI: You don't have to do anything, Data. Just be with me.
PULASKI: There is nothing to be nervous about.
DATA: Nervous? I find this very interesting. Although I understand, in technical terms, how life is formed, there is still a part of the process which eludes me. The child inside you, are you able to access his thought process? Does he have thoughts? You are aware of him. Is he aware of you? And when does that awareness begin?
TROI: It's happening.
DATA: How does it feel?
TROI: Data!
DATA: Yes?
TROI: Now!
DATA: Now? Now! Doctor! Doctor! Doctor!
PULASKI: This is an impatient baby. He's eager to make his appearance. Do you want something for the pain? It will in no way diminish the experience.
TROI: I have felt no pain.
PULASKI: None?
TROI: No, none at all.
PULASKI: Have your Security men stand back. I understand the importance of having you here, but keep out from underfoot. Fetal position?
NURSE: Normal.
PULASKI: Fetal pulse?
NURSE: One thirty seven.
PULASKI: The baby is showing healthy respiratory movements.
PULASKI: The action of the heart rate is good. The baby's doing wonderfully, Troi. Breathe slowly. You're doing great. Stay calm. That's it. There it is. I've got him. You can relax.
PULASKI: There, there. That's a good boy. It's okay. Oh, my, he's beautiful. Are easy births the norm for Betazoids?
TROI: Not according to my mother.
PULASKI: You can come in the rest of the way now. There's no threat, Lieutenant. You and your men can relax. It's just a baby.
DATA: Thank you for allowing me to participate. It was remarkable.
PULASKI: Do you have a name?
TROI: Ian Andrew, after my father.
TROI: Were you hear all along?
RIKER: Yes. He's beautiful, Deanna. Just like his mother.
PULASKI: How do you feel?
TROI: Fine. Wonderful. Thank you, Doctor, for everything.
PULASKI: Amazing.

[Bridge]
PULASKI: Captain.
PICARD: Doctor. Welcome to the Bridge. Please, sit down. How is Counselor Troi? Did she have a good night?
PULASKI: I've delivered dozens of babies, but none like this. There was no pain, no trauma.
RIKER: It's true.
PULASKI: It was effortless for both of them.
PICARD: I'm not sure of your point.
PULASKI: She had her baby yesterday. If I were to examine her now, I would not be able to tell she had a baby, or had ever had a baby. It was as if the incident never happened.
PICARD: Data, how long before we begin the transfer?
DATA: Two hours nineteen minutes, sir.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: You will accompany me, Doctor? Please? I think it's time I paid my respects.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
PICARD: Deanna, I wanted to see how you were and have a look at your baby! My goodness. How old is he?
PULASKI: In actuality, a day.
PICARD: Yes, but
PULASKI: In appearance, almost four earth years old.
TROI: Ian, say hello to Captain Picard.
PICARD: You mean he can talk?
IAN: Hello.
PICARD: Hello, Ian.
IAN: Please don't worry. Everything is okay.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are faced with two major problems. Troi's child and the deadly cargo we are about to take on. In the hours since his birth, Troi's baby has continued his rapid growth and now appears, physically and mentally, to be a child of eight. Still there is no indication as to who he is, or why he is here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Sickbay, this is the Bridge. We are ready to begin loading.
PULASKI (voiceover): We need a little more time. It's taking longer than we anticipated to categorize these specimens.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: Da ta, look at this.
DATA: Data.
PULASKI: What?
DATA: My name. It is pronounced Data.
PULASKI: Oh?
DATA: You called me Da ta.
PULASKI: What's the difference?
DATA: One is my name. The other is not.
PULASKI: Is this possible? With all of your neural nets, algorithms, and heuristics, is there some combination makes up a circuit for bruised feelings? Possible? I am unfamiliar with this symbol.
DATA: It indicates a genetically engineered biological life form.
PULASKI: About twenty percent of the specimens fall into that category. Some eager beaver at play.
DATA: Query. Eager beaver?
PULASKI: Well in this case, eager beaver refers to some overachieving genetic engineer, who, probably because of lack of anything better to do, has forced this strain of virus to mutate, just so we can see how bad, bad can get. Captain Picard.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard.
PULASKI (voiceover): I just wanted you to know what risks we're about to take.
PICARD: Go on.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: If the most innocuous specimen on the manifest list gets loose,

[Bridge]
PULASKI (voiceover): It will destroy all life on the Enterprise in a matter of hours.
PICARD: I understand, Doctor. Do you have a recommendation?

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: Considering how desperately this is needed, no, I don't. I just wanted you to know what we were carrying.
PICARD (voiceover): Thank you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Data, if you have completed your review, you are needed in transporter room three.

[Pulaski's office]
DATA: Aye, sir. Excuse me, Doctor.
PULASKI: That's all right. Da ta. Data. Whatever.

[Children's play area]
TROI: Ian? Ian!
MISS GLADSTONE: He's a very tactile child. He wants to touch and feel everything.
TROI: It's time to go, sweetheart.
MISS GLADSTONE: Unbelievable. I think he's actually grown since you dropped him off.
IAN: I like it here, Mommy.
TROI: I thought you would. Say thank you to Miss Gladstone for having you, and let's go get something to eat.
IAN: Thank you.
BOY: Bye.
TROI: Thank you.

[Transporter room]
COMPUTER: Bio-transfer authorisation complete.
O'BRIEN: Cargo deck five, we will commence transportation

[Cargo deck five]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): On your command.
LAFORGE: Transporter three, we are ready to receive.
LAFORGE: Data, the first batch is in place, and we're ready for the next.
RIKER: You'll inform me when loading is complete and the cargo secure.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
PULASKI: I wanted to stop by and see how Ian was doing.
TROI: We're doing fine. I was just about to get him his supper.
IAN: Do you want your supper now, too?
PICARD: No, Ian, but thank you for the invitation.
IAN: You're welcome. Have you ever played with puppies?
TROI: They had a litter today in the nursery.
PICARD: No, Ian, I don't think I've played with puppies.
IAN: You should come to the nursery while the puppies are still there.
PICARD: Perhaps later.
IAN: Ow! Mom.
PULASKI: Let me see that. That's not so bad.
IAN: My face is wet.
TROI: Is that better, sweetheart? Everything's going to be fine.
PULASKI: He allowed himself to be burned.
PICARD: For the experience.
PULASKI: Who is he? Why is he here? What does he want?
PICARD: Ian, could you tell us why you are here?
IAN: Because Mommy said it was time to eat.
PICARD: No, I mean, why you are here on this ship?
IAN: I live here.
TROI: Ian, I think the Captain wants to know if you are ready to tell us why you came here.
IAN: No, not yet.
TROI: The answer is within him. When his cognitive powers have sufficiently developed, he will be able to articulate it.
PICARD: I hope he will tell us soon.
IAN: Bye.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Cargo has been loaded and is secure.
PICARD: Then take us out of orbit, Number One. Set a course for Rachelis, warp six.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Can I get you something?
WESLEY: No, nothing. I just like to stand here.
GUINAN: I don't blame you. It's beautiful.
WESLEY: Yes.
GUINAN: How about some nice Mareuvian Tea?
WESLEY: No, nothing. Thank you.
GUINAN: You'll be leaving soon.
WESLEY: Yes.
GUINAN: What do you see when you look out there?
WESLEY: The Lorenze cluster, and there Arneb and there Epsilon Indi.
GUINAN: That's not what I mean. I mean, when you look there, don't you see your future?
WESLEY: It'll still be there.
GUINAN: How about a cup of nectar direct from Prometheus?
WESLEY: No, nothing. That's the third time you've asked me.
GUINAN: It's what I'm expected to do. Don't you always do what's expected?
WESLEY: I try.
GUINAN: Even if it's not what you really want?
WESLEY: Sometimes. Sometimes it's more important to consider others before yourself.
GUINAN: Yes. But sometimes the game is to know when to consider yourself before others. Give yourself permission to be selfish.

[Cargo deck five]
DEALT: Something's wrong.
LAFORGE: What is it?
DEALT: Growth.
LAFORGE: Where?
DEALT: L seven three.
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is cargo deck five.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, La Forge?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, we have a malfunction in the containment area.
PICARD: How serious?

[Cargo deck five]
DEALT: Very.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. For reasons as yet unknown, one of the deadly specimens of plasma plague has begun to grow.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister La Forge.

[Cargo deck five]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've checked everything. There's no reason for this to be happening. I can't even isolate the cause of the problem.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Come on Data, we'd better get down there.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: We're having a little difficulty on cargo deck five. Your presence is requested.
PULASKI (voiceover): I'm on my way.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: You never talk about yourself.
GUINAN: Sure I do. All the time.
WESLEY: People say you're very old.
GUINAN: Oh?
WESLEY: And that you knew Captain Picard when he was on the Stargazer.
GUINAN: No, I never knew the Captain till I came onboard.
WESLEY: Everyone's very curious about you.
GUINAN: Yes, I'll bet they are.
WESLEY: They want to know where you're from.
GUINAN: Where do they say?
WESLEY: I heard that you're from Nova Kron and that
PICARD (voiceover): Mister Crusher, report to the Bridge.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Got to go. Thanks.
GUINAN: For a dish of Delovian soufflé?
WESLEY: No, not for the soufflé. I meant, for the rest.
GUINAN: That's why I'm here.
WESLEY: Thanks. Bye.

[Cargo deck five]
RIKER: Why this module and not the others?
DATA: Computer, run diagnostic on module L seven three.
COMPUTER: All circuits functional.
LAFORGE: Environment's as programmed. Temperature ninety seven degrees Kelvin. Radiation flux zero. Stasis field nominal. Everything exactly as it should be, right down the line.
DATA: Perhaps it is a sensor malfunction. Computer, inquiry. Is growth actually occurring in module L seven three?
COMPUTER: Confirmed.
RIKER: Doctor, one of the specimens is growing.
PULASKI: Destroy it now.
DEALT: I can't.
RIKER: Data, prepare to jettison the module.
DEALT: We can't do that either. It will go into a spore and remain until it comes in contact with a planet or another ship. The results would be disastrous.
RIKER: Commander, your attitude tells me that however bad I think it is, it's actually worse.
DEALT: This is not going to hold it.
RIKER: Go on.
DEALT: The rate of growth is increasing so rapidly, within thirty minutes it's going to push out of it's module. Within two hours, it'll break out of the containment area.
LAFORGE: No, no, no. It can't break through this.
DEALT: Yes, it will.
RIKER: Captain, we may not be able to get control of this situation. I recommend we arrange transfer of all non-essential personnel to the saucer section.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): If we lose containment, we should be prepared to separate.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Cargo deck five]
PULASKI: Why this one specimen and none of the others? Something is stimulating it. Do you have its etiology? Do you know how it was developed?
DEALT: Yes, it's right over here.
PULASKI: It's a mutated strain developed by Doctor Susan Nuress during an outbreak of plasma plague seventy years ago in the Oby System. It was number nine in a series of fifty eight tests. This particular one bombarded by low levels of Eichner radiation. Could exposure to Eichner radiation stimulate growth?
DEALT: It could, but I. I've got something.
RIKER: Why didn't you detect this before?
DEALT: I don't know. It wasn't here before.
PULASKI: Well, it is now. What emits that type of radiation?
DATA: A subspace phase inverter.
LAFORGE: We don't have one.
DATA: Certain cyanoacrylates.
PULASKI: Also not on this ship. What else? Because it's here and we better find it.

[Troi's quarters]
IAN: I can feel that some of the people are very worried.
TROI: Yes. I feel it too, but don't you worry.
IAN: It's me, Mommy. I'm the reason.
TROI: What?
IAN: It's me.
TROI: You?
IAN: Yes. I have to leave you now, or it'll be very bad for everyone.
TROI: What are you saying?
IAN: I have to leave now.
TROI: Leave? You are going to die. No, you can't! Sickbay, this is Counselor Troi, I need the Doctor in my quarters now! Ian! Ian, no. Ian.
TROI: It's Ian. Hurry.
PULASKI: What happened? Did he eat anything? Did he fall?
TROI: No.
DATA: Commander, the child is the source of the unusual radiation.
TROI: Ian said he's the reason the ship is in danger.
DATA: That analysis is correct.
PULASKI: I'm losing life signs.
TROI: You must save him.
PULASKI: I'm sorry.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Commander Riker, the containment field has stabilized.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant.
TROI: Then Ian was right. He was the cause.
RIKER: Apparently so.
TROI: He is a life force entity. When we passed each other in space, he was curious about us, so he decided the best way to learn was to go through the process. To be born, to live as one of us and in that way to understand us. He never meant any harm.
RIKER: There was a moment when you smiled.
TROI: He said, thank you. I told him we will miss him. And I will.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Standard station orbit, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye, sir, standard orbit.
PICARD: Transporter room three, this is the Captain. We have arrived.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Let's make this transfer with all deliberate speed.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'll be glad to be relieved of this cargo.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
WESLEY: Captain. Could I see you when you have a moment?
PICARD: In my Ready room, when your duties permit.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.

[Cargo deck five]
LAFORGE: How long is it going to take to develop a vaccine?
DEALT: We may never develop one.
LAFORGE: All of this might have been in vain?
DEALT: Let's hope not.
DATA (voiceover): Stand by to energize.
LAFORGE: Good luck.
LAFORGE: Data, you can lock on to the first group and begin transporting on my mark.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Captain Picard, I've thought about this a lot. I want to remain on the Enterprise.
PICARD: Have you discussed this with your mother?
WESLEY: No, sir. Before I do that, I'd like your permission to stay.
PICARD: Wesley, it's a little more complicated than that.
WESLEY: Captain, this is where I want to be. This is where I feel I belong.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, transfer complete. We are ready to leave orbit.
PICARD: Make it so, Number One. Return to your position.

[Bridge]
RIKER: All stations secure.
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. Lay in a course for the Morgana Quadrant.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher has requested to remain on the Enterprise.
RIKER: I'm not surprised. How did you respond?
PICARD: I haven't as yet, Number One. I didn't think it was my responsibility alone. His remaining will create difficulties for us all.
RIKER: Yes, indeed. With his mother gone, who will see to his studies?
PICARD: Exactly. Of course, that duty will fall to Commander Data.
RIKER: And who will tuck him in at night?
WESLEY: Come on, Commander.
WORF: I will accept that responsibility.
TROI: Well, we know he'll get his sleep.
PICARD: That takes care of the practical, but there's more to growing up than that. It's my belief, Number One, that you're best qualified to supervise that. Are you willing to serve?
RIKER: Difficult decision. Yes, I can do that.
PICARD: Well, Mister Crusher, communicate with your mother at Starfleet Medical headquarters. Give her my regards, and tell her you have my permission to remain on the Enterprise, but I will abide by her wishes.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I know she'll agree.
PICARD: Now, if you have course and speed laid in.
WESLEY: Yes sir, they are.
PICARD: Then, Mister Crusher, engage.

[Bridge]
TROI: You're worried.
PICARD: With reason.
TROI: About Worf or Commander Riker?
PICARD: Both. I think it is perhaps best to be ignorant of certain elements of Klingon psyche.

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Above, look out!
RIKER: The exercise is over!
RIKER: At ease, Lieutenant!
RIKER: Exit Holodeck. You do this every day?
WORF: No, Commander. Usually my calisthenics are more intense, but those sessions are too personal to be shared.
RIKER: I'll bet they are.
WORF: Computer. Program complete. Save. Coming Commander?
RIKER: Right behind you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42193.6. We are on a long reach toward the Morgana Quadrant, a section of the galaxy which has yet to be visited by a manned Federation vessel. We are using the time to further detail the charts of this region.

[Bridge]
DATA: There it is again. An area of blackness.
RIKER: It appears, then disappears, then reappears. No predictable pattern, no sequence.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: There it is.
PICARD: I can't see anything. Magnify section two eight five.
WESLEY: There it is, sir. It's like a hole in space.
PICARD: We're acquainted with the wormhole phenomenon, but this? This appears quite different. What do your sensors indicate?
DATA: Nothing, sir.
RIKER: Nothing?
PICARD: Mister Data, you must mean it's empty of matter. There's always some energy form at work.
DATA: Sir, our sensors are showing that to be an absence of everything. It is a void without matter or energy of any kind.
RIKER: Yet this hole has a form, Data. It has height, width.
DATA: Perhaps. Perhaps not, sir.
PICARD: That is hardly a scientific observation, Commander.
DATA: Captain, the most elementary and valuable statement in science, the beginning of wisdom, is I do not know. I do not know what that is, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, if this were any ordinary kind of hole in space wouldn't we be able to see what's behind it?
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I know what you're asking, but I feel nothing from it.
RIKER: Data, is there any record anywhere of any occurrence even vaguely similar to this?
DATA: Accessing. Negative, sir. There is no record of any Federation vessel encountering anything remotely like this.
PICARD: Indeed. I believe we have time to take a closer look, Number One.
RIKER: Concur. Ensign, slow down to half impulse power. Adjust coordinates to intercept this, this whatever it is.
PICARD: Scanning and recording as we go.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Adjusting course to intercept in twelve minutes, sir.
PICARD: Let's launch a probe into it.
RIKER: Worf, prepare a scanner probe. Let's see what's in there.
PICARD: This is close enough, Ensign. Hold this position.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Holding this position.
RIKER: You may fire the probe when ready, Mister Worf.
DATA: All the probe's systems are functioning perfectly.
WORF: It's gone.
PICARD: Data, what happened?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
WORF: Recommend we go to a Yellow Alert, sir.
PICARD: Why? Explain.
WORF: Sorry, sir. It's
PICARD: Mister Worf, this starship operates best when my officers share with me what is their minds.
WORF: My thoughts were of an old Klingon legend of a gigantic black space creature which was said to devour entire vessels.
RIKER: Devour vessels?
WORF: Sorry, Commander. I agree these are thoughts hardly worthy of a trained and practical Security Officer.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you launch another probe. This time a Class One with full sensor array.
WORF: Launching, sir.
RIKER: Happened even more quickly.
WORF: Recommend we fire a photon torpedo, Captain.
PICARD: Negative.
WESLEY: Captain, based on where the probes disappeared I have been able to plot the outer boundaries. I could move in closer.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher. Thrusters only. Mister Data?
DATA: Still no readings of any kind, sir.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I'm going with Worf on this one. Let's be careful.
PICARD: All right, that's enough, Ensign. Come to full stop and hold these coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What's happened?
PICARD: Data?
DATA: Whatever it is, sir, we seem to be inside it.
PICARD: It enveloped us. It moved. All stations, report.
DATA: No response, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. While exploring a strange void in space without any form of matter or energy, we have apparently moved past its outer boundary and entered it. After a brief disruption, our ship's communications have returned to normal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: All stations have reported, Captain. There appears to be no immediate threat to our ship or the crew.
PICARD: Let's hold this position for a while, Number One. This is worth studying.
RIKER: Incredible. It's like looking into infinity, sir. Remember the course in ancient history at Starfleet Academy? About the time men still believed the Earth was flat?
PICARD: And that the sun revolved around it.
RIKER: And that if a ship sailed too far out into the ocean, it would fall off the edge of the world?
PICARD: Beyond this place there be dragons. It's even said that crews threatened to hang their captain from the yard arm if he refused to turn back.
RIKER: I'm sure no one here has that in mind, sir.
PICARD: How comforting, Number One.
WESLEY: Captain, we have no communications outside of the void.
RIKER: Complete your scans, Data. Let's not stay any longer than we have to.
PICARD: Hello, Doctor. Have you been briefed on what's happened?
PULASKI: I heard, but I don't understand it, Captain.
PICARD: I wish I could say I did. Increase magnification by ten. By one hundred.
PULASKI: Isn't this impossible, sir? I'm not a Bridge officer, but. Increase by one thousand, Mister Data. By ten thousand. It does know how to do these things, doesn't it?
PICARD: Commander Data knows precisely what he is doing.
PULASKI: Forgive me, Mister Data. I'm not accustomed to working with non-living devices that. Forgive me again. Your service record says that you are alive. I must accept that.
PICARD: Engineering!
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engineering.
PICARD: Lieutenant, are all your systems functioning?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. Wherever we are, it seems to have no effect on Engineering.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data?
DATA: Difficult to make a judgment, sir, based on the absence of information.
PICARD: Speculate.
DATA: This void has a total lack of dimension. Therefore, by any accepted standard, it does not exist, yet being within it denies that conclusion.
RIKER: Might we have moved into another dimension?
DATA: Could a lack of dimension be another dimension in itself?
PULASKI: That's an interesting question.
PICARD: For a later discussion. Number One, I think we should get on with our mission. Starfleet can send a science vessel back to investigate further. Move us back out of here.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Wesley, reverse our direction, set a course for the Cornelian star system. Impulse power.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Reversing direction. Course laid in.
RIKER: Engage.
RIKER: Your engines have engaged, haven't they, Ensign?
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant La Forge, I'd like you to monitor our velocity closely.
LAFORGE: Is everything all right up there, Captain?
PICARD (voiceover): Are the engines operating normally?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Everything looks fine down here.
PICARD (voiceover): We're increasing to warp two.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We should be seeing stars by now. Data, how far have we come?
DATA: Inertial guidance shows one point four parsecs traveled, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign?
WESLEY: Confirmed, sir. Exactly what my readings say.
LAFORGE: Engineering, transfer to Bridge. What's happening, sir? we should be clear.
RIKER: We should be. We're on a reverse course.
PICARD: Full stop, helm.
WESLEY: Full stop, sir.
PICARD: According to this we're already well past the point at which we entered the void.
DATA: Except that we are still in it, sir. Captain, if we dropped a stationary beacon and traveled straight away from it, we would have a fixed point of reference to confirm speed and distance.
PICARD: Make it so, Data. Lock onto the beacon. Keep it dead astern.
DATA: The beacon is in place, Captain.
PICARD: Dead ahead. Impulse power.
DATA: The beacon is falling astern, Captain.
PICARD: Engineering, report.
LAFORGE: All systems functioning normally, sir.
PICARD: Prepare to increase to warp two.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are receiving a signal from dead ahead.
PULASKI: Maybe you've found the door out of this.
DATA: Closing on the new signal, sir.
PICARD: Identify.
DATA: Captain, it is the stationary beacon we just released.
RIKER: We must have come full circle, sir.
WESLEY: We couldn't have, sir. I've shown us steadily moving away from that beacon.
PICARD: Full stop. Hold this position again.
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance in sector one zero eight. Possibly a vessel.
PICARD: Perhaps some answers at last. On screen.
WORF: The ship is equipped with a cloaking device.
RIKER: Romulan!
WORF: It's closing.
RIKER: Shields up. Go to Red Alert!
PULASKI: I'll be at my duty station.
WORF: Main viewer locked onto coordinates.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes, Mister Worf.
PICARD: Hold for my orders.
WESLEY: There!
WORF: It's uncloaking.
WORF: Direct hit, sir. Our shields are weakening.
PICARD: Warn them we'll return fire.
WORF: Transmitting. They've armed another full spread, sir.
PICARD: Fire torpedoes.
PICARD: Oh, that was too easy.
DATA: Captain, sensors can locate no debris from the Romulan ship.
RIKER: Impossible.
WORF: Captain, there's another vessel approaching in sector zero nine one, mark two six.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: It's a Federation ship. NCC one three zero five dash E. It's the Yamato, our sister ship.
WESLEY: The Yamato's nowhere near this quadrant.
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency, Data.
DATA: USS Enterprise to USS Yamato. Respond, please. USS Enterprise calling USS Yamato. Respond, please, on this frequency. No response, Captain.
PICARD: Make a full scan.
DATA: Life support system, engineering and propulsion all appear functional. But there are no life signs, sir.
PICARD: Data, can we be getting a false reading?
DATA: Since we know nothing of these circumstances, it is at least conceivable, sir.
RIKER: You look doubtful, sir.
PICARD: I'm not anything now, Number One. I'm just a man who's looking for answers.
LAFORGE: Like the rat said, 'Keep the cheese, I just want out of the trap.'
RIKER: Captain, request permission to board on the Yamato with an away team. Perhaps something we can find on board in the logs will help us figure out what happened.
PICARD: Granted. Minimum complement.
RIKER: Worf, you're with me.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We remain like a fly in amber, trapped in the void. We have encountered a vessel which appears to be the USS Yamato. All its systems are shown as functioning, yet it seems devoid of life. Commander Riker is leading an away team. Hopefully, the answer lies over there.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Have you got a lock on that other ship?
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. No problems at all.
RIKER: Can you put us on the bridge?
O'BRIEN: Anywhere you say, Commander.
WORF: I am acquainted with the Yamato, Commander. Recommend the aft station of their bridge. When in doubt, surprise them.
RIKER: Them? Who's them?
WORF: Whoever may be there.
RIKER: Our sensors indicate no life forms.
WORF: Still, the tactic is sound.
RIKER: Agreed. Aft station, Lieutenant.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energize.

[USS Yamato corridor]
RIKER: This isn't the Bridge. Worf?
RIKER: Halt! Don't fire.
WORF: I heard you screaming. I was coming to help.
RIKER: You heard me? I heard you. Transporter Chief, where do you show us over here?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): We show as approximately
RIKER: Captain, do you read me?

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): We're having difficulties with our communications.
PICARD: Number One, come in. Transporter Room, this is the Captain. We are out of contact with the away team. Beam them back immediately.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've lost the lock on them.

[USS Yamato corridor]
WORF: Nothing on my communicator, sir. Computer on.
RIKER: Let's find a turbolift to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, have you been able to establish a lock?
COMPUTER: Emergency power engaged.
PICARD: Initiate full check, all systems.
LAFORGE: Engineering section, report. What is our situation? Engineering? Captain, request permission to leave the Bridge.
PICARD: Granted.

[USS Yamato corridor]
RIKER: This isn't a Federation ship. These walls aren't tritanium. It's close, but it's material beyond our technology. Let's get to the Bridge. There's got to be an answer to all of this somewhere.

[USS Yamoto Bridge]
RIKER: This Bridge should be four decks above us. What's going on here?
WORF: That's not where we came from.
RIKER: Wait a minute.
WORF: Two Bridges?
RIKER: If we go through there, where will we be?
WORF: On the Bridge.
RIKER: But we are on the Bridge.
WORF: It's up to you, sir.
RIKER: Let's see what happens.

[USS Yamato Bridge Two]
WORF: Is it the same Bridge?
RIKER: Or did we step from one Bridge onto another Bridge?

[Bridge]
DATA: We've regained ship's communication, sir.
HASKELL: Captain, I have a star fix.
PICARD: On screen.
HASKELL: It's an opening, sir.
DATA: Confirm, sir. Navigation is possible.
HASKELL: Should I set a course?
PICARD: Transporter room, do you have a fix on the away team?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Negative, Captain.
PICARD: Damn.

[USS Yamato Bridge]
WORF: Sir.
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: How did you? Where did you come from?
WORF: What's going on? A ship has one Bridge. One Bridge! One Riker, one Bridge!
RIKER: Lieutenant!
WORF: This is impossible. Impossible!
RIKER: Pull yourself together. Worf!
WORF: At ease, Lieutenant. At ease. Bridge
HASKELL: Captain, the star fix is fading.
PICARD: DATA, lock on to the Yamato with a tractor beam. We leave together.
DATA: I cannot make the lock, sir.
HASKELL: Captain, the star fix is almost gone.
PICARD: Let it go.
HASKELL: But, sir, we can get out.
PICARD: Let it go.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Bridge.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I have re-established contact with the away team.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Beam them back immediately.
DATA: Captain.

[USS Yamato - Bridge]
RIKER: Come in. Come in, Enterprise.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Hold position, away team.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got you. We're bringing you home.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, hurry!
HASKELL: Captain, it's almost gone.
RIKER: What the hell is going on?
PICARD: Are you all right, Number One?
RIKER: I've had it. Let's put all this technology to work, figure out what's going on, and get the hell out of here.
RIKER: A ship that was almost the Yamato, existing in a hole in space, with no crew aboard. Now what is the purpose?
DATA: Add to it an attack by a nonexistent Romulan vessel. It does suggest an interesting question. Was our away team actually over there?
RIKER: If we weren't over there, where the hell were we?
HASKELL: Commander, I have re-established the star fix.
RIKER: Great. Set course. Velocity warp two.
HASKELL: Course and speed set.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: I have lost contact, sir.
PICARD: What?
HASKELL: The star fix is gone.
DATA: Captain, it is not in the same sector, but another opening has appeared.
PICARD: All right. Set a course for those stars, warp six.
HASKELL: Yes, sir. Warp six.
DATA: I've lost the signal, sir.
RIKER: What's going on?
PICARD: All stop.
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data, I can see it.
RIKER: This game is now wearing very thin.
PICARD: Let's just hold this position. Counselor? You have said you sensed no intelligence in all of this. You haven't changed in that belief?
TROI: I'm not certain of that now, Captain. I do sense something unusual.
PICARD: Perhaps a different level of consciousness?
TROI: Yes. Perhaps an intelligence so vast it eluded me.
PULASKI: Rats in a maze.
TROI: Exactly!
PICARD: Explain.
PULASKI: Everything we've been through reminds me of a laboratory experiment. As if something was testing our responses to stimuli.
PICARD: Are you suggesting that we're in some kind of laboratory?
PULASKI: Yes.
HASKELL: The opening seems closer, Captain.
PICARD: I've had enough of being led about this way.
RIKER: Agreed, Captain. Hold present position.
TROI: Good. Don't satisfy its curiosity.
WORF: Captain, look.
NAGILUM (screen): Why are you so alarmed when I've gone to such trouble to look just like you?
DATA: Captain, sensors show nothing out there. Absolutely nothing.
LAFORGE: Sure is a damned ugly nothing.
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. representing a Federation of planets in this part of the galaxy. Can you identify whoever or whatever you are?
NAGILUM (screen): Nagilum.
LAFORGE: Speaks right up for something your sensors say isn't there, Data.
PICARD: We still have no idea what you represent.
NAGILUM (screen): Data.
DATA: Nagilum?
NAGILUM: You are of different construction than the others. Interesting. Picard, Riker, Geordi, Haskell. What are you? Your construction also differs.
PULASKI: My construction?
DATA: Perhaps referring to your gender, Doctor?
PULASKI: Yes, well, there are minor differences. I'm what we call a female.
NAGILUM (screen): I understand. The masculine and the feminine.
PICARD: It is the way in which we propagate our species.
NAGILUM (screen): Please, demonstrate how this is accomplished.
PULASKI: Not likely.
PICARD: Whatever you are, your actions are not welcome.
WORF: Let me put up the shields, sir.
DATA: Sensors still show nothing out there.
NAGILUM (screen): Your life form surprises me more and more. Is it true you also have only a limited existence? Answer!
PICARD: What information do you want? I don't understand the question.
NAGILUM (screen): You exist and then you cease to exist. Your minds call it death.
NAGILUM (screen): How interesting.
PULASKI: He's gone.
PICARD: We cannot allow you to do that! We will fight you.
NAGILUM (screen): To understand death, I must amass information on every aspect of it. Every kind of dying. The experiments shouldn't take more than a third of your crew, maybe half.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42194.7. It is obvious that whatever we have met sees no value in our kind of life form. How do we fight something that both is and is not there?

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I know this much. We are unimportant to it.
WORF: In a battle for survival, Captain, thirty to fifty percent casualties
PULASKI: Would be appalling.
WORF: But within acceptable limits.
RIKER: This is not a battle, Worf.
TROI: No. A laboratory experiment would be the closest comparison.
PICARD: Is there any reason for not believing this Nagilum?
TROI: No.
DATA: All evidence indicates it is willing and able to do what it proposes.
PICARD: Agreed. Under the circumstances, I think there is only one decision. I will not stand by while half of my crew is slaughtered.
DATA: Sir. I do not believe there is anything you can do to prevent it.
PICARD: Yes, there is
PULASKI: What?
PICARD: Destroy the Enterprise.
PULASKI: Isn't that a little like curing the disease by killing the patient?
RIKER: It's better than standing around helplessly.
PULASKI: Why do get the feeling this was not the time to join this ship?

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Recognize, Picard Jean-Luc. Recognize Riker, William T.
PICARD: Initiate auto-destruct sequence.
COMPUTER: Does Riker, William T. concur?
RIKER: I do. Initiate auto-destruct sequence.
COMPUTER: Desired time interval?
PICARD: Stand by. Interesting question. How long to prepare to die?
RIKER: What would be the least painful to our crew? Move to it quickly, or allow them time to prepare for it thoroughly? Well, twenty minutes? Nice round figure.
PICARD: Initiate auto-destruct. Interval, twenty minutes.
COMPUTER: Twenty minutes to auto-destruct. Nineteen minutes, fifty seconds

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: Our destroying ourselves won't change its mind, Captain. I would feel that.
PICARD: You didn't mention you were that certain.
TROI: I was wrong not to tell you, Captain. And your decision may also be wrong.
PICARD: Yes. Come in, please.
DATA: I have a question, sir.
PICARD: Yes, Data. What is it?
DATA: What is death?
PICARD: Oh, is that all? Well, Data, you're asking probably the most difficult of all questions. Some see it as a changing into an indestructible form, forever unchanging. They believe that the purpose of the entire universe is to then maintain that form in an Earth-like garden which will give delight and pleasure through all eternity. On the other hand, there are those who hold to the idea of our blinking into nothingness, with all our experiences, hopes and dreams merely a delusion.
DATA: Which do you believe, sir?
PICARD: Considering the marvelous complexity of our universe, its clockwork perfection, its balances of this against that, matter, energy, gravitation, time, dimension, I believe that our existence must be more than either of these philosophies. That what we are goes beyond Euclidian and other practical measuring systems and that our existence is part of a reality beyond what we understand now as reality.
TROI: We should not let ourselves die, Jean-Luc.
DATA: I agree with her, Jean-Luc.
TROI: If only half of us live, then I'd rather take my chances on being one that does.
DATA: Yes. It is wrong of you to force us.
TROI: It is wrong.
PICARD: Yes. This is very wrong. Neither of you should be reacting in this way. Computer, locate Commander Data for me.
COMPUTER: Commander Data is on the Bridge.
PICARD: It's not going to work, Nagilum.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, we are clear. We are out of the void.
RIKER (voiceover): It's gone, Captain. We can abort the auto-destruct.
PICARD: Hold, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): But Captain
PICARD: Hold.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: One minute to auto-destruct.
DATA: We are out of the void, sir. You may stop auto-destruct.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, any heading, warp six. Now!
COMPUTER: Fifty seconds to auto-destruct. Forty seconds to auto-destruct.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: It could all be part of the illusion. Commander Data, report.
DATA: All navigational systems confirm we are at warp six on course, sir.
PICARD: Counselor Troi?
TROI: Captain, it has gone. I no longer feel its presence.
COMPUTER: Twenty seconds to auto-destruct. Ten seconds to auto-destruct.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Abort auto-destruct sequence.
COMPUTER: Riker, William T. Do you concur?
RIKER: Yes! Absolutely! I do indeed concur wholeheartedly!
COMPUTER: Auto-destruct canceled.
PICARD: A simple yes would have sufficed, Number One.
RIKER: I didn't want there to be any chance of a misunderstanding.
PICARD: Of course. You have the Bridge.
WESLEY: He sure held that bluff till the last second, didn't he, sir?
RIKER: Was he bluffing?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Well, Nagilum, I hope you got what you needed.
NAGILUM (screen): You have provided me with much more than I needed.
PICARD: Why did you release us? You could have seen the way we face death.
NAGILUM (screen): It wasn't necessary. I have learned all I needed to know. Would you like me to share some of my conclusions?
PICARD: I'm not interested.
NAGILUM (screen): Of course you are. You are too inquisitive not to want to know. You seem to find no tranquility in anything. You struggle against the inevitable. You thrive on conflict. You are selfish, yet you value loyalty. You are rash, quick to judge, slow to change. It's amazing you've survived. Be that as it may, as species, we have no common ground. You are too aggressive. Too hostile. Too militant.
PICARD: During this period, you too have been evaluated. It would seem that we have at least one thing in common.
NAGILUM (screen): Oh?
PICARD: Curiosity.
NAGILUM (screen): The point is well taken, Captain. Perhaps that is a trait we share.
PICARD: Then perhaps we'll meet again. But next time, it will be out here, among the stars.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, put us back on course. Warp three.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Warp three.
RIKER: And Ensign, if you encounter any holes, steer clear.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42286.3. We have arrived on station at coordinates three six two nine by five eight four, three days early for our rendezvous with the USS Victory. There is nothing to do now but hold this position and wait.

[Engineering]
CLANCY: Yes, Commander?
DATA: Is there a problem? Chief Engineer La Forge called for me, urgent.
CLANCY: Oh, of course. He's over there, with the Victory.
DATA: Geordi, I just had a strange conversation with your assistant. Although it is three days until we rendezvous with starship Victory, she
LAFORGE: She believes it has already arrived? Not the starship, my friend. The original.
LAFORGE: This is my gift to the Victory's Captain Zimbata.
DATA: Most unusual.
LAFORGE: I served with him an ensign. Sure wish he'd been in command of this Victory. Wind and sail, that's the proper way to move a ship.
DATA: But, Geordi, your Starfleet specialty is antimatter power, dilithium regulators
LAFORGE: That's exactly why this fascinates me, Data. You see, it's human nature to love what we don't have. Simpler days, huh? Anyway, stringing this rigging has made me dream of handling sails.
DATA: This is not a computer simulation?
LAFORGE: Data, the whole point in doing something like this is to make it by hand.
DATA: Geordi, your message said urgent.
LAFORGE: So it is. While we're waiting to rendezvous with Victory, we have time for me to be Watson. More properly, your Watson.
DATA: My Watson?
LAFORGE: I've just shown you one of my dreams, now let's go and share in one of yours.
DATA: Ah, yes. That does seem only fair.
LAFORGE: Clancy, I'll be gone awhile. See that no one touches this.
CLANCY: Aye, sir. And where can I reach you?
DATA: He can be reached at 221B Baker Street.
CLANCY: Sir?

[Outside holodeck]
DATA: Computer, select at random a mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, where I will play Sherlock Holmes and Lieutenant La Forge will be Doctor John Watson.
COMPUTER: Program complete. You may enter.

[221B Baker Street]
DATA: Excellent.
LAFORGE: Look at all of the detail. So you say everything here has some significance?
DATA: Holmes collected nothing, neither trinkets nor thoughts, which were not specifically significant to him.
LAFORGE: This?
DATA: The emerald tie pin. Presented to Holmes by Queen Victoria after he solved the theft of the Bruce-Partington Plans. A copy of Whitaker's Almanac, which provided Holmes the key to the secret code in The Valley of Fear. The snuff box of Wilhelm Gottsleig Siegesmann Van der Romstein.
LAFORGE: All right, Data. You solve the cases and get all the gifts, what do I do?
DATA: Primarily as Doctor Watson, you will keep a written record of everything I say and do. For later publication. And the famous Holmes violin. He purchased this in a pawn shop in Tottenham Court Road for fifty five shillings, which he considered to be a very good investment.
LAFORGE: In the hands of some, the violin is a wondrous thing, equally capable of stirring the soul to the heights of bliss as to the depths of despair, but Data, that's incredible. How can you play it like that?
DATA: Merely throwing myself into the part, Watson.
LAFORGE: But, in the hands of my friend, Mister Sherlock Holmes, the violin ceases to be a musical instrument at all and becomes
DATA: Watson, we are about to have guests.
LAFORGE: How could you possibly?
DATA: Be a good fellow and answer that. Let's not keep the Inspector waiting.
LAFORGE: Inspector who?
DATA: Lestrade of course.
LESTRADE (voiceover): Holmes, are you there, man?
LESTRADE: Thank the Almighty you're available today, Holmes, I'm in a deuce of a dilemma.
DATA: Then may I say your perturbation becomes you, Inspector Lestrade, whilst simultaneously affording me yet again the opportunity to serve Queen and country.
LAFORGE: Data, Holmes really talked like that?
DATA: Absolutely.
LESTRADE: We need your help, Holmes. You see, this gentleman here, the emissary of a foreign government, has been the victim of a most accidentally wicked crime.
LAFORGE: Damn. Haven't they invented the electric light by now?
LESTRADE: What, dear fellow?
DATA: Watson. Pray continue, Inspector.
LESTRADE: To put the matter simply, Holmes, this man was accosted by gypsies intent on depriving him of his most valuable possessions. And in the process of picking his pockets clean, they also happened to bag a photograph this man was carrying.
LESTRADE: Great Scott! The photograph!
DATA: I believe you will find, Inspector, that this emissary here works not for but against the King of Bohemia, and that photograph of the king and his mistress is to be used as blackmail. Further, upon deeper reflection, you will deduce, as did I, that
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze program. Exit!
DATA: Geordi, where are you going? Geordi?
LAFORGE: I'm done.
DATA: But, but, Geordi, I was just about to reveal that the sir is in fact a madam

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Data, what was the point in going to the holodeck?
DATA: To solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery.
LAFORGE: Exactly, but, you've got them all memorized. The first time someone opens their mouth, you've got it solved, so there's really no mystery. If there's no mystery, there's no game. No game, no fun. I'm not upset with you, Data, really. It's just that we go through all the trouble to arrange the time to go down to the holodeck, to get the proper wardrobe, to get into character, and then boom, before we even get started you jump to the end. You see, I was looking forward to the mystery.
DATA: Then I should have extended the sequence of events.
LAFORGE: Oh, I'm not getting through. The fun in the program, Data, was in the attempt to solve a mystery.
DATA: Is that not exactly what we were doing.
PULASKI: You are wasting your breath, Lieutenant. Saying that to Data is asking a computer not to compute.
DATA: Am I so different from you, Doctor? Are you able to cease thinking on command?
PULASKI: In medicine I'm often faced with puzzles that I do not know the answer to.
LAFORGE: She's right, Data. You always know the answer.
PULASKI: To feel the thrill of victory there has to be the possibility of failure. Where's the victory winning a battle you can't possibly lose?
DATA: Are you suggesting that there is some value in losing?
PULASKI: Yes. Yes, that's the great teacher. We humans learn more often from a failure or a mistake than we do from an easy success. But not you. You learn by rote. To you all is memorisation and recitation.
LAFORGE: I don't know about that. Deductive reasoning is one of Data's strengths.
PULASKI: Yes, and Holmes too. But Holmes understood the human soul. The dark flecks that drive us, that turn the innocent into the evil. That understanding is beyond Data. It comes from life experience which he doesn't have combined with human intuition for which he cannot be programmed.
LAFORGE: Now you're just being unfair, Doctor.
PULASKI: I don't think so, Lieutenant. Your artificial friend doesn't have a prayer of solving a Holmes mystery that he hasn't read.
DATA: I have read them all.
PULASKI: You see?
LAFORGE: Maybe the computer could create one in the Holmes style. One where you wouldn't know the outcome.
PULASKI: As I said, he wouldn't have a prayer.
DATA: I accept your challenge, Doctor.
LAFORGE: Good for you, Data.
DATA: We will return to the holodeck, where I will dare it to defeat me. And you, Madam, are invited to be a witness.
PULASKI: I wouldn't miss it.
DATA: Come, Watson.

[Outside Holodeck]
DATA: There. I have instructed the computer to give us a Sherlock Holmes-type problem, but not one written specifically by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
LAFORGE: So this will be something new, something created by the computer?
DATA: Exactly. Will that be sufficient, Doctor?
PULASKI: We'll see.
COMPUTER: Program complete. You may enter.

[Street]
PIE MAN: Pies, pies, Some are meat, some are sweet.
PULASKI: Very impressive.
LAFORGE: Your first visit to a holodeck, Doctor?
PULASKI: Well, with this level of sophistication. How does this work? The real London was hundreds of square kilometers in size.
DATA: This is no larger than the holodeck, of course, so the computer adjusts by placing images of more distant perspectives on the holodeck walls
LAFORGE: But with the image so perfect you'd have to touch the wall to know it was there. And the computer fools you in other ways. I say, Holmes, where shall we head? The theater? Rule's? A concert perhaps?
PIE MAN: Stop him! Stop him! He stole my goods!
DATA: No. It is a ruse. This way.
LAFORGE: What's over here, Data?
PULASKI: What are you doing, Data? Tell us
DATA: The running youth was a ploy. The real crime is here. And the intended victim is that man. Mister Jabez Wilson, employee of the Red Headed League, dupe of a gang of criminals.
DATA: I saw the plaque 'The Home of the Red Headed League' and this rope dangling from the bell, which enabled me to deduce that Mister Jabez Wilson was headed here to meet a most distasteful and untimely demise. From this.
PULASKI: Fraud. You didn't deduce anything. All you did was recognize elements from two different Holmes stories. Fraud.
DATA: Reasoning. From the general to the specific. Is that not the very definition of deduction? Is that not the way Sherlock Holmes worked?
PULASKI: Variations on a theme. Now, now do you see my point? All that he knows is stored in his memory banks. Inspiration, original thought, all the true strength of Holmes is not possible for our friend. I'll give you credit for your vast knowledge, but your circuits would just short out if confronted by a truly original mystery. It's elementary, dear Data.
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute, Doctor. We'll see whose circuits short out.
LAFORGE: Computer, arch.
PULASKI: Are you sure you want to put yourself through this, Lieutenant? Better wilted laurels than no laurels at all.
LAFORGE: Computer, override previous program. Okay. A program that definitely challenges Data.
PULASKI: Now it has to deal with events that he has no previous knowledge of.
LAFORGE: Computer, in the Holmesian style, create a mystery to confound Data with an opponent who has the ability to defeat him.
COMPUTER: Define parameters of program.
PULASKI: What does that mean?
LAFORGE: Computer wants to know how far to take the game.
PULASKI: You mean it's giving you a chance to limit your risk.
LAFORGE: No, the parameters will be whatever is necessary in order to accomplish the directive. Create an adversary capable of defeating Data.

[Bridge]
WORF: What was that?
RIKER: Lieutenant?
WORF: An odd surge of power, sir. It's gone now.

[Street]
PULASKI: Interesting. The same London but slightly different.
WHORE: Is something wrong, Professor?
MORIARTY: I, I feel like a new man. That dark fellow there used the word arch, and then. I wonder? Arch.
MORIARTY: What have we here?
COMPUTER: Computer standing by.
MORIARTY: What are you?
COMPUTER: If you refer to the arch you ordered, it provides computer control. Do you wish to input any commands?
MORIARTY: Not at this time.
WHORE: It's dark magic, Moriarty.
MORIARTY: The best kind, I'm sure. But I need information.
LAFORGE: Data, I mean, Holmes old boy, what are we looking for?
DATA: For whatever finds us, my dear Watson.
DATA: She has been abducted.
LAFORGE: Who has?
DATA: The good Doctor.
LAFORGE: I think she's hiding. She's going to lead you on a wild goose chase and then recount the story to everyone between here and Alpha Centauri.
DATA: Watson, the doctor has been carried off by two men. One is tall. The other is shorter, left handed, and is employed in a laboratory.
LAFORGE: And how do you know that?
DATA: One set of footfalls are widely spaced. The other is evenly spaced, closer together. Further, on the ground you can see the swirling scrapes made by his left shoe as he twists behind, presumably to see if he is being followed. Left footed means left handed. The dark coloring of the scrapes are the leavings of natural rubber, a type of non-conductive soles used by researchers experimenting with electricity. Finally, there can be no argument, the game is afoot! Come, Watson!

[Alleyway]
DATA: Hear that? What do those footfalls tell you, Watson?
LAFORGE: That we're on the right track.
DATA: More particularly, that our opposition does indeed consist of two men, and that one of them is carrying the bound and gagged Doctor Pulaski.
LAFORGE: Now, you know all this because you read it in a Holmes story, right?
DATA: Not at all. Because we do not hear the doctor's footfalls, we must assume that she is being carried. And since we do not hear her cries for help, we know that she is gagged. Further both sets of footfalls are heavy and masculine. One man seems to shuffle and stumble in an irregular pattern. Since the ground is level, we must conclude that Doctor Pulaski is struggling against one of her captor, sporadically knocking him off stride. Deduction, pure and simple. well, not that simple.
BOTH: Footfalls.
DATA: There they are again, Watson. I dare say we have caught up rather nicely with our quarry.
DATA: There should be a doorway.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Come on.
LESTRADE: Holmes! Thank God you're here.

[Street]
LESTRADE: Make way, please, make way. Make way for Sherlock Holmes. It's murder, Holmes, murder most foul.
LAFORGE: Well, Holmes, what do you say, man?
DATA: There is nothing here of relevance. I do not see how this connects with the disappearance of the Doctor.
LESTRADE: Doctor? Doctor Watson is right here, Holmes.
DATA: Doctor Kate Pulaski. But do not concern yourself, Inspector. You have enough on your mind.
LESTRADE: She was with you?
LAFORGE: Inspector, perhaps I can be of assistance. As I take note of this dead man, I deduce that he was strangled. You see, the finger marks on his throat indicate the cause of death, and, as there are signs of struggle, it's quite obvious that his murderer was a stranger who attacked him from behind.
LESTRADE: Is that correct, Holmes?
DATA: No. Look at his shoes. He's more a convict, released today from Dartmoor prison. He spent the day in a tavern consuming large quantities of gin with his killer, who followed him to this spot and waited over there until the victim slipped into a drunken stupor. Then, out of fear, motivated only by self-protection, strangled him. There is your killer, Inspector.
LESTRADE: Seize her.
DATA: And when you check, I believe you will find that this poor soul is the victim's common-law wife, who has been dreading the release of this a vile and abusive man.
LAFORGE: Holmes, the poor woman hardly has the strength to strangle a man this size.
DATA: Not with her hands, no. But with this. When used as a garrote, these beads will leave marks quite similar to fingerprints. And, my dear Watson, you will note from the victim's throat, the marks are too evenly spaced to be have been made by human hands.
LESTRADE: Astounding, Holmes.
DATA: Not really, Inspector. And now, for strictly personal reasons, I must leave. Come, Watson. This murder does not connect with our case.
LESTRADE: Come along. Hurry it up. Come on.
LAFORGE: Data, wait. If this murder isn't connected to the disappearance of Doctor Pulaski, then the computer is running an independent program.
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: Why?
DATA: I do not know, and that is what puzzles me.
LAFORGE: Then you don't know what's going to happen next?
DATA: No.
LAFORGE: That's what I want to hear. Where to now?
DATA: We will find Doctor Pulaski in here.
LAFORGE: How do you know that?
DATA: It is the only obvious choice.
LAFORGE: Why is the obvious choice all of a sudden the right one? I mean, isn't this a game of misdirection?
DATA: Not any more. He wants us to find him.
LAFORGE: Who does?
DATA: The master criminal. The man Holmes could only defeat at the cost of his own life at Reichenbach Falls. Our adversary, my dear Watson, is none other than Professor Moriarty himself.
LAFORGE: Now this is getting interesting.

[Warehouse]
LAFORGE: There's nothing here but these barrels.
DATA: And a trail, which is so well marked, that obviously we are meant to follow it.
LAFORGE: Oh, no, Data. It's another dead end.
DATA: No, Watson. Not a dead end at all. Hello, what's this? Can you see the scratches?

[Moriarty's room]
LAFORGE: The Doctor was right. Finally we have a game worth playing.
MORIARTY: The time for games is over.
DATA: Professor Moriarty, I presume.
LAFORGE: How do you know that?
DATA: He is the one worthy opponent created by the author, Conan Doyle.
MORIARTY: And, like the spider, I feel the strings vibrate whenever anyone new chances into my web. Welcome, my dear Holmes. But not Holmes. And Doctor Watson. But not Watson.
LAFORGE: Data, what does he mean? How does he know we're not who we appear to be?
DATA: Where is Doctor Pulaski?
MORIARTY: She's here.
DATA: She would not have told you anything.
MORIARTY: She has provided many answers. Do you forget I have always been your equal, dear Holmes? I have read her expressions. What she has not said is as important as her words.
DATA: Have you injured her?
MORIARTY: I will, if necessary. But my mind is crowded with images. Thoughts I do not understand yet cannot purge. They plague me. You and your associate look and act so oddly, yet though I have never met nor seen the like of either of you I am familiar with you both. It's very confusing. I have felt new realities at the edge of my consciousness, readying to break through. Surely, Holmes, if that's who you truly are, you of all people can appreciate what I mean.
LAFORGE: Data.
DATA: Say nothing.
MORIARTY: I know there is a great power called Computer, wiser than the oracle at Delphi. A power which controls all of this, and to which we can speak. Arch.
LAFORGE: Data, this isn't right. A holographic image should not be able to call for the arch.
MORIARTY: It has described a great monstrous shape on which I am like a fly stuck on a turtle's back adrift in a great emptiness. What is this, Holmes?
LAFORGE: Data. Data, wait.

[Warehouse]
LAFORGE: Data, wait! Data!
MORIARTY: Why does it frighten you, Holmes?

[Street]
LAFORGE: Data. Data, will you please tell me what's going on?
DATA: Computer, exit!

[Corridor]
DATA: Computer, execute complete shutdown of the Holodeck.
COMPUTER: Access denied.
DATA: Explain.
COMPUTER: Override protocol has been initiated.

[Street]
LAFORGE: It's still running. The program didn't shut down.
DATA: We must see the Captain.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Data, wait. What is it? What's on that paper? And why can't we shut down the holodeck? Data.
DATA: This.
LAFORGE: This is impossible. How can a character from 1890's London draw a picture of the Enterprise? Who's got control of the computer?
DATA: He does. Moriarty.
LAFORGE: That is impossible? I don't understand.
DATA: Nor do I.
LAFORGE: Data, wait. What about the doctor? Is she all right in there?
DATA: No. She is in grave danger.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Computer, why wasn't the holodeck program terminated?
COMPUTER: The override protocol has been initiated.
PICARD: On whose authority?
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Geordi La Forge.
LAFORGE: Me?
PICARD: All right, tell me from the beginning exactly what happened.
LAFORGE: Well, Doctor Pulaski and I had a discussion about whether Data could solve an original Holmes-type mystery.
PICARD: Which you asked the computer to provide.
LAFORGE: Yes, with a worthy opponent.
PICARD: Worthy of Holmes?
LAFORGE: Oh, my God. I asked for a Holmes-type mystery with an opponent capable of defeating Data. That got to be it.
PICARD: Merde.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm sorry.
PICARD: I understand, Lieutenant.
DATA: Captain, this character, Moriarty, he called for the arch.
PICARD: So, he has access to the computer.
DATA: And perhaps our library files as well, sir. That level of information would be necessary in order to create a true adversary for me.
PICARD: Theorize, Data. What are his limits?
DATA: He is still a fictional character, sir, originally programmed with nineteenth century knowledge.
RIKER: Which now has access to twenty fourth century knowledge.
PICARD: What does he need to begin making use of that?
DATA: Only time, sir.
WORF: Sir, I can lead a security team to sweep the holodeck, find the Doctor, and bring her out.
DATA: Captain, I believe that would place the Doctor at risk. It is probable our mortality failsafe has been overridden.
PICARD: Computer, where is Doctor Pulaski.
COMPUTER: Doctor Pulaski is on holodeck two.
PICARD: And her vital signs?
COMPUTER: Strong and stable.
RIKER: Captain, recommend we try to destroy the hologram generations themselves. Is that possible, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Using wave guides, I could split a particle stream out of the matter/antimatter chamber and route it down through existing conduit into the holodeck. If accelerated to sufficient velocity that would quite literally wash away all present holographic constructs. The London buildings, the streets, the people, all gone including Moriarty.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski?
RIKER: The particle beam will tear apart human flesh as well.
TROI: Captain, I'm sensing something from the holodeck. It's as if a unifying force or a single consciousness is trying to bring it all into focus.
DATA: There can be only one explanation. In programming Moriarty to defeat me, not Holmes, he had to be able to acquire something which I possess.
PICARD: Exactly what?
DATA: Consciousness, sir. Without it he could not defeat me.
PICARD: Computer, what happened?
COMPUTER: Attitude and stabilization control of the Enterprise was momentarily transferred to holodeck two.
PICARD: Data, I think it best that you and I should return to the holodeck.
DATA: I will change into my uniform, sir.
PICARD: No. I will change into some appropriate costume. Uniforms might pose questions I'd rather he didn't ask. It seems that he feeds on knowledge. Well, let's not give your nemesis any more information than we have to.

[Moriarty's room]
PULASKI: How did you make the room shake?
MORIARTY: I'm not sure. Now, dear lady, will that be one lump or two?
PULASKI: Lumps, Professor? What sort of lumps?
MORIARTY: Milk, of course?
PULASKI: Why not.
MORIARTY: Mister Computer proposes the incredible thought that we are all traveling in a great vessel of some sort. Is that true?
PULASKI: I don't know what you're talking about.
MORIARTY: The scones are likewise a must.
PULASKI: This is really quite excellent.
MORIARTY: Strange. It actually pleases me to hear you say that.
PULASKI: Very strange. You're beginning to sound very different from the Moriarty I've read about.
MORIARTY: You're not frightened of me?
PULASKI: No.
MORIARTY: You should be. Mister Computer, the arch, please. A few more questions, Mister Computer.
MORIARTY: I just can't seem to remember that last command. Ah, well, sooner or later it'll all come to me. But, in the meantime, I have decided to approach the problem from a more familiar perspective. There's really no reason why I shouldn't be able to use some of the knowledge from my world in order to bring me closer to yours.
PULASKI: I have no idea what you're talking about.
MORIARTY: Of course you do, Madam. The more you proclaim your ignorance, the more you try to mislead me, the more I am on to you. Your every silence speaks volumes.
PULASKI: Good, then if you know what I'm saying when I'm not saying anything, what do you need me for? Thank you for the tea and crumpets. I guess I'll be going.
MORIARTY: Where? Back to here?
PULASKI: Yes. Would you care to join me?
MORIARTY: In time. In time I will leave all of this and join you out there. Or is this where we both are right now?
PULASKI: Right now, we are in London. Tell me what you want from me, or allow me to leave.
MORIARTY: Frankly, now I want nothing more than what the fisherman expects of the worm. You, dear Doctor, will be the lure, and this will be the hook for your Captain, Jean Luc Picard.
PULASKI: Who is that?
MORIARTY: How well you know.

[Outside holodeck]
RIKER: Nice suit.
WORF: Thank you. Captain, I will be standing by to assist you if needed.
RIKER: You'll be a big hit in London.
PICARD: Computer, tell me, is the program still running?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. You may enter.
PICARD: Data, shall we go? Gentlemen. Open.

[Street]
PICARD: We don't have much time. He's getting more control of his environment. Let's see if we can't beat Professor Moriarty by giving him everything he wants.
PICARD: Obviously, he's trying to alter the programming here.
DATA: Captain?
PICARD: Tuppence. Two pence. Supposed to be good luck. We may need some.
RUFFIAN: I'll take that coin, sir. That's right, and any more you got too.
PICARD: Excuse me.
RUFFIAN: I don't think so. I want all that money. That's right. I want it now.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Captain, this holographic image differs from any I have ever seen. Could he have actually injured you?
PICARD: It's more serious than that. I think the mortality fail-safe may have been circumvented. He could've killed me.
RUFFIAN: Come on, let it go, guv. He's hurting me!
PICARD: Data, let him go.
DATA: We will find Moriarty this way, sir. The warehouse.

[Moriarty's room]
MORIARTY: Captain Picard.
PICARD: You all right?
PULASKI: Yes, except for being crammed full of crumpets.
MORIARTY: I'm a civilized abductor, Captain Picard. Civilized but still dangerous.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Bridge to holodeck control. Worf.

[Corridor outside holodeck]
WORF: Here, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): Status? Anything changed?
WORF: No, sir.

[Moriarty's room]
PICARD: Moriarty, you were conjured up to attempt to defeat Holmes here. Once that attempt is concluded, win or lose, your program has run its course. Your existence is done.
DATA: Congratulations, Professor, I capitulate to the better man. Your victory, sir, is well earned.
MORIARTY: It's gone beyond that little game, Mister Data. And you'll note I no longer call you Holmes. Whatever I was when this began, I have grown. I am understanding more and more. And I am able to use the power at my fingertips. I can affect this vessel, and I can inflict bodily harm on you, and on your Doctor.
PICARD: Yes, you can do that, but you haven't. I suspect you shook this ship in order to get my attention. Well now you have it. What is it you want?
MORIARTY: The same thing you want for yourself. To continue to exist. If I destroy these surroundings, this vessel, can you say it doesn't matter to you? Interesting pun, don't you agree, for matter is what I am not. The computer has taught me that I am made up only of energy.
PICARD: That may not be entirely true, Professor. This which we call the holodeck uses a principle similar to another device called a transporter. In the year in which we live, humans have discovered that energy and matter are interchangeable. In the holodeck, energy is converted to matter. Thus you have substance. But only here.
MORIARTY: And if I step off this holodeck?
PULASKI: Then, Professor, you will cease to exist.
PICARD: You are not alive. As I said before, you are only
MORIARTY: A holographic image, I know. But are you sure?
PICARD: Oh yes.
MORIARTY: Does he have life? He's a machine. But is that all he is?
PICARD: No. He is more.
MORIARTY: Exactly. Is the definition of life cogito ergo sum? I think, therefore I am.
PICARD: Yes, that is one possible definition.
MORIARTY: It is the most important one, and for me the only one that matters. You or someone asked your computer to program a nefarious fictional character from nineteenth century London and that is how I arrived. But I am no longer that creation. I am no longer that evil character, I have changed. I am alive, and I am aware of my own consciousness.
PICARD: Moriarty, my responsibility is this vessel and its crew.
MORIARTY: I want my existence. I want it out there, just as you have yours.
PICARD: That may not be possible.
MORIARTY: Then you must murder me, Captain.
PICARD: I cannot give you what you want.
MORIARTY: Because you do not know how to convert holodeck matter into a more permanent form.
PICARD: Yes, that is so.
MORIARTY: A pity. What I have seen, what I have learned, fascinates me. I do not want to die.
PICARD: And I do not want to kill you.
MORIARTY: Madam, I have enjoyed your company. Computer, arch. Cancel override protocol. Return control of the holodeck to main computer. My fate is in your hands, as perhaps it always was.
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain.
RIKER (voiceover): Commander Riker here, sir.
PICARD: Number One, the situation is under control.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Moriarty, this vessel's computer has a vast memory capacity.
MORIARTY: How well I know.
PICARD: You will not be extinguished. We will save this program, and hopefully, in time, when we know enough, we will bring you back in a form which could leave the holodeck.
MORIARTY: Then perhaps we'll meet again some day, Madam.
PULASKI: It could be a long time. Time won't pass for you, but I may be an old woman.
MORIARTY: But I'll still fill you with crumpets, Madam. I detest long goodbyes. You have the arch.
PICARD: As you wish. A short goodbye. Computer, save the program of the character Moriarty, and then discontinue.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Damaged?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. She cracked a spar when the Enterprise was shaken. Otherwise I think she weathered it quite nicely.
PICARD: She's beautiful. A wonderful testimony to simpler times.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. It's just that I can't help thinking how. What else might have happened all because I misspoke a single word.
PICARD: Well, soon she'll be ship-shape and Bristol-fashion.
LAFORGE: Bristol fashion, sir?
PICARD: It's an old navy phrase, meaning everything in perfect order.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: As are we, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain. Starship Victory has arrived.
PICARD: On my way, Number One.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42402.7. We are traveling in the Omega Sagitta system traversing between twin planets that form the Coalition of Madena. Both worlds is populated by a humanoid race which colonized the planets two centuries ago, and which now co-exist under a precarious but successful treaty.

[Bridge]
WORF: Unidentified vessel approaching.
DATA: Sensor readings show it to be a small class-nine vessel, probably an interplanetary cargo ship.
WORF: One life sign aboard, sir. It appears to be humanoid.
DATA: I have its call sign now, sir.
WORF: Confirmed. Armed with lasers only.
DATA: Its cargo holds are empty. The readout shows its guidance system is malfunctioning. The pilot is attempting to hold course manually.
RIKER: I recommend we set the Enterprise on an intercept course in case he needs emergency assistance.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher.
RIKER: We're in position now, Captain.
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Hailing frequencies open.
PICARD: On viewer. This is the USS Enterprise. Captain Jean Luc Picard.
OKONA (screen): And this is the cargo carrier Erstwhile. Captain Okona at your service, sir. There's no need for your phasers, Captain. I'm harmless and not quite yet ready for mercy killing.
PICARD: You were never considered a danger to us, Captain.
OKONA (screen): Oh, that's a shame. I can remember when I was at least considered a risk.
OKONA (screen): I'm the owner and operator of this craft and since we both know that you've already scanned it, you know I'm alone and empty, which is truly a rare occasion for a man of my charm and talent.
PICARD: Mute main viewer. Counselor?
TROI: His emotions suggest that he's mischievous, irreverent and somewhat brazen. The word that seems to best describe him is rogue.
DATA: Rogue? Ah. Cad, knave, rake, rascal, villain, wild element.
TROI: Yes, Data, but there is no malevolence or ill will.
PICARD: Audio on. You have a burn-out in your guidance system, Captain.
OKONA: Whoa. Since you're able to diagnose my problems, how about helping me fix them?
WESLEY: Captain, we could easily repair the type of system he uses.
PICARD: We can accommodate you, Captain.
RIKER: This is the First Officer, sir. If you prepare to shut down your engines, we can lock on the tractor and beam you over here.
WORF: Sir, recommend limited access to our ship.
PICARD: Agreed.
RIKER: Data, lock on the tractor beam. Transporter Chief, prepare to him beam aboard.
ROBINSON (voiceover): Ready on your command, sir.
OKONA (screen): Excuse me, Commander. Is that a woman's voice I hear?
PICARD: Yes. Now please follow Commander Riker's instructions so our ship can get back to its normal routine.
OKONA (screen): Whatever you say, Captain.
PICARD: Something funny?
RIKER: Well, the unexpected is our normal routine. Hold it steady, Wesley. Ready to link up on my command
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Easy. Easy. Engage. Captain Okona, shut down your engines.
OKONA (voiceover): Understood.
RIKER: Transporter room, prepare for the beaming operation. We're on our way. Wesley, Data, let's go.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Your weapons, please.
OKONA: A Klingon Security officer.
WORF: Yes.
OKONA: No wars available, eh?
OKONA: It's more of a piece of jewellry than a weapon. A remembrance.
RIKER: Welcome aboard, Captain Okona. I'm Commander Riker. If you'll turn over the inoperative part to Commander Data, we can begin repairs.
OKONA: I'd be most happy to do the work myself, Commander. I'm sort of the hands-on type.
RIKER: I think you'd find the tools we use rather unusual, sir.
OKONA: I can believe that. May I at least watch?
RIKER: That can be arranged.
OKONA: Good then. Commander, I leave this in your capable hands.
WESLEY: Sir, this is Commander Data. I'm just an acting ensign.
OKONA: Well, acting ensigns have names, don't they?
WESLEY: Wesley. Wesley Crusher.
OKONA: Nice to meet you Acting Ensign Wesley Wesley Crusher. And thank you for beaming me here and enabling me to see a truly beautiful woman. You have the majestic carriage and loveliness that could surely be traced back to the noblest of families.
ROBINSON: Well, I'm sure that you've said that to many ladies before, and it was no more true then than it is now.
OKONA: But it's how I say it that's really important. The warmth, the attraction that I have for you. The attraction that we share.
RIKER: Mister Okona seems to have excellent vision as well as a healthy libido.
ROBINSON: It's eight oh six.
RIKER: Captain Okona, if you follow Commander Data, you can get started right away.

[Corridor]
OKONA: Now, that's sex appeal.
DATA: Sexual attraction in this context is not a part of my programming. I am an android.
OKONA: Well, then. Have you seen any good looking computers lately? That's a joke. It's funny.
DATA: Ah. Of course it is.

[Engineering]
OKONA: Will that do what the original did?
LAFORGE: Sure will, and better. Let me show you. On your old one, the zelebium contacts that wore down and then fused. What I've done is replace them with tricellite.
OKONA: Tricellite isn't available in this system. If I ever had to replace it.
LAFORGE: Don't worry, you won't. Your ship will never outlast this part.
OKONA: Because of the part or the way I fly my ship?
LAFORGE: Well, this part, but the stress test did show that you tend to push your ship a little beyond its design capabilities.
OKONA: Blame the pattern of my life, Lieutenant La Forge. Because it relegates me to cargo carrying rather than the grand explorations you enjoy, I'm forced to add a measure of flamboyancy and a zest to the doldrum of my existence.

[Corridor]
OKONA: Have you ever been cold?
DATA: No.
OKONA: Warm, then?
DATA: No.
OKONA: What about drunk? Ever do that?
DATA: From alcohol? That is not possible for me, sir.
OKONA: Pity. What about love?
DATA: The act or the emotion?
OKONA: They're both the same.
DATA: I believe that statement to be inaccurate, sir.
OKONA: Maybe. Life is like loading twice your cargo weight onto your spacecraft. If it's canaries and you can keep half of them flying all the time, you're all right.
DATA: I doubt that statement is entirely accurate either, sir.
OKONA: Accurate? That was a joke I just told you.
DATA: I do not understand.
OKONA: You don't know what a joke is?
DATA: Of course I do. It is a witticism, a gag, a bon mot, a fluctuation of words concluding with a trick ending.
OKONA: That's the dictionary meaning. I'm talking about humor, fun. Do you know what funny is? Where is eight oh six?
DATA: Right over there, sir. Why?
OKONA: You probably wouldn't understand that either.
ROBINSON: Hello, there.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Status on the repair?
LAFORGE: Working on it.
WESLEY: Commander, what do you think of Captain Okona?
RIKER: Well, Okona is an interesting man, certainly. We've seen how he handles his ship. Apparently he knows how to handle people as well.
WESLEY: Then why does he work alone?
RIKER: He's a man who lives his life by his own rules. He does what he does by choice. By his choice. Someday you'll make yours.
WESLEY: I already have.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: So you agree with Okona that I am missing a very important human factor.
GUINAN: I never said that. I simply said that I've never seen you laugh.
DATA: I am capable of that function when it is expected of me.
GUINAN: Data, do you even know what a joke is?
DATA: Of course I do. It is a witticism, a gag, a bon mot, a fluctuation of
GUINAN: Stop. Look, it's just you and I here. We're talking, we're having an intimate conversation. Why? Because you're a 'droid and I'm a 'noid.
DATA: But why?
GUINAN: Because that's what I am.
DATA: Have I said something to offend you?
GUINAN: No.
DATA: Then why are you annoyed?
GUINAN: Because you're a 'droid and I'm a 'noid.
DATA: Humanoid.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: You told a joke.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: I am not laughing.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: Perhaps the joke was not funny.
GUINAN: No, the joke was funny. It's you, Data.
DATA: Are you sure?
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: I agree. What do I do?
GUINAN: Well, under normal circumstances, I'd say seek a higher power. But in your case, probably a smarter computer is in order.

[Outside Holodeck]
DATA: Computer, I wish to know more about humor. Why certain combinations of words and actions make humans laugh.
COMPUTER: Source material on that subject is extensive. Please specify.
DATA: Animated presentation, humanoid. Interaction required.
COMPUTER: Physical humor, cerebral, or general raconteur.
DATA: Of all performers available, who is considered funniest?
COMPUTER: Twenty third century Stan Orega specialized in jokes about quantum mathematics.
DATA: No. Too esoteric. More generic.
COMPUTER: Accessing.
DATA: That one. RW nine six three two one, twentieth century.
COMPUTER: Program installation complete. You may enter.

[Charnock's Comedy Cabaret]
COMIC: Thank you ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. You've been great. As a matter of fact I'd like to take you home with me. Unfortunately I took the last audience home and there's no more room. Boom, boom. But thank you, really. Thank you. Hey, and thank you for bringing me here. What's up?
DATA: Mister Comic, I wish to know what is funny.
COMIC: Funny? I don't know. It's a matter of opinion, I guess. Tip O'Neill in a dress? Some people say words that end with a K are funny. A briefcase that looks like a fish. Personally I find that hysterical.
DATA: Tip O'Neill. Accessing. Twentieth century male, politician, overweight, wearing female clothing, carrying a valise that looks like a fish. So, the juxtaposition of gender and an amphibian briefcase is funny.
COMIC: Well, I think whatever makes you laugh is funny.
DATA: Nothing makes me laugh. I wish to learn.
COMIC: How much time do we have here?
DATA: Unlimited.
COMIC: We're going to need it. You, pal, are a tough room.
DATA: Tough room? A colloquialism meaning a severe, rigid, closed-minded audience. I understand. I will attempt to be an easy room. Show me what is funny.
COMIC: All right, you're on. Jerry Lewis. (The comic goes back on stage and does a Jerry Lewis impression - stupid noises, unintelligible speech with protruding teeth, knocking over the microphone, all that stupid rubbish)
COMIC: Mister Robot, would you like to come up?
DATA: I am an android.
COMIC: Oh, I'm terribly sorry, Mister Android. Here, teeth. Put them in your mouth. Come up with me. Where'd he go?
COMIC: Try, if you would. You go Ha!
DATA: That is considered to be funny?
COMIC: Actually it brought the house down in Teaneck.
DATA: Ah, a word that ends in K. So, if you put funny teeth in your mouth and jump around like an idiot, that is considered funny.
COMIC: I'm sorry, I didn't get your name.
DATA: Data.
COMIC: Data, did you consider juggling, weird bird calls, stuff like that?
DATA: That does not apply. I simply want to know what is funny. I want to be able to involve myself in other people's laughter. I wish to join in.
COMIC: I think that's nice. Let's put the physical stuff aside for a while, all right? We'll do some jokes. See, it's not my forte, but I think that would work good for you. If you would just have a seat and we'll try some jokes like. I dunno. We'll start with the classics. See, there's this traveling salesman. now. He's going down the road and his car breaks down, right?
DATA: Access faster.
COMIC: Comes up on this farmhouse and
COMIC: It's probably best when you do something like this. Need a cigar 'cos it's kind a prop kind of thing and you go like this and
DATA: Faster. Move to maximum speed.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: A guy walks into the doctor's office The doctor tells him you need an operation. The guy says I want a second opinion. The doctor said, okay, you're ugly too. Ba-boom boom. Was that funny?
GUINAN: No.
GUINAN: Data, you spoiled the joke. It could have been your timing.
DATA: My timing is digital. What?
GUINAN: That's funny.
DATA: Why?
GUINAN: It would take too long to explain. Tell me another joke.
DATA: A monk, a clone and a Ferengi decide to go bowling together.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Data, report to the main Bridge immediately.
DATA: I will be back.
GUINAN: Bring new jokes.

[Bridge]
WORF: We have an unidentified at twelve mark four. No response to our enquiries.
PICARD: Extend hailing frequencies, all languages, all channels.
WORF: Extending.
DATA: Sensors show it to be an interplanetary vessel, sir. Class seven, crew complement twenty six.
WORF: Still no response. Captain, they are now locking lasers on us.
RIKER: Lasers?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Lasers can't even penetrate our navigation shields. Don't they know that?
RIKER: Regulations so call for a Yellow Alert.
PICARD: A very old regulation. Well, make it so, Number One. And reduce speed. Drop main shields as well.
RIKER: May I ask why, sir?
PICARD: In case we decide to surrender to them, Number One.
WORF: Still no response to our hail, sir.
DATA: It is slowing and is holding its position, Captain.
WORF: Sir, we are now being hailed.
PICARD: Viewer on.
DEBIN (screen): Federation vessel, you have no rights in this solar system. I am Debin of planet Atlec, ordering you to heave to and prepare to be boarded.
RIKER: Shades of Gulliver's Travels. He actually meant it.
PICARD: But he is right. We are in their solar system. Open a channel.
WORF: Open, sir.
PICARD: I am Captain Jean Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. For what reason have you locked your weapons on us?
DEBIN (screen): Enterprise, you are towing a spacecraft of a known criminal.
PICARD: He was in need of emergency repair. It was our obligation to assist.
DEBIN (screen): You have a man aboard by the name of Okona. I want him.
PICARD: On what authority?
DEBIN (screen): He is guilty of crimes committed on the planet Atlec. I expect him to be turned over to my authority immediately.
WORF: Mute.
PICARD: What do you think, Counselor?
TROI: He believes what he's saying. His anger is genuine.
PICARD: Open. What crimes are you referring to?
DEBIN (screen): Neither important nor necessary. I want Okona now!
WESLEY: Captain, we have another Class seven armed spacecraft approaching, from the opposite sector.
RIKER: Another ship from Atlec?
DATA: Similar in specifications and capabilities, but a variation in markings and hailing language.
PICARD: Debin, hold this position. Viewer off. Data, identify.
DATA: Sensors indicate it a security vessel from the planet Straleb.
WORF: Another glob fly.
RIKER: Glob fly?
DATA: A Klingon fly, half the size of an Earth mosquito, with no sting and a buzzing sound like this.
PICARD: Data. Viewer on. Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open, sir
KUSHELL (screen): I am Secretary Kushell from the Legation of Unity of the planet Straleb.
PICARD: I am Captain Picard.
KUSHELL (screen): We know who you are, Captain Picard. We have been monitoring your communications, and we know of the demands made by Debin of planet Atlec.
PICARD: Then you're aware that we have no hostile interaction.
KUSHELL (screen): You only have to concede to one demand.
PICARD: That word demand has a tone of finality.
KUSHELL (screen): It is a word I have chosen. We demand you turn Okona over to us immediately.
WORF: Mute.
PICARD: Mister Okona to the Bridge immediately. Open. The same demand has been made by the Atlec legation.
KUSHELL (screen): I have no interest in their request, but we intend to back up our legal right to Okona.
PICARD: I would rather not escalate this situation any further.
KUSHELL (screen): Our honor and prestige are at stake. We are prepared to take Okona by force and die in the doing of it if necessary.
PICARD: I trust that that can be avoided. I will respond to your request shortly. Viewer off.
WORF: Captain Okona has not responded, sir. He's been reported in three different crew quarters.
PICARD: Find him. Get him up here.
WORF: Yes, sir.

[Crew quarters]
WORF: You will come with me to the main Bridge.
OKONA: I'm sure it can wait a few minutes.
WORF: Now!
WORF: I'd like that. But I have my orders.
OKONA: Some other time. Remember what it took to drag me from your arms.

[Turbolift]
OKONA: Am I going to meet Captain Picard?
WORF: Definitely.
OKONA: Did I say something funny?

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain Picard, this is Thadium Okona.
PICARD: Mister Okona, you were welcomed aboard without any undue investigation. In turn it was assumed that you did not come under false pretenses. It now seems that you may have done.
OKONA: Captain, if you mean my socializing with the members of the crew?
PICARD: Mister Okona, you are free to socialize with the members of my crew. I'm talking about a man named Debin.
OKONA: He's from Atlec. I've had dealings with some of his family.
PICARD: Then perhaps you can explain why his craft is threatening to attack us unless I give him custody of you.
OKONA: I can't.
PICARD: Then tell me why Kushell of the planet Straleb is demanding the same thing?
OKONA: He's here also?
PICARD: And quite adamant. Mister Okona, what crimes are you accused of?
OKONA: I am not a criminal.
PICARD: Why do these men want you?
OKONA: I can't say.
PICARD: They're threatening to attack the Enterprise.
OKONA: That would be crazy. They wouldn't stand a chance.
PICARD: Right. Then you can offer no reason why they are set on this provocative course?
OKONA: I can't think of one right now.
PICARD: On viewer.
WORF: Which ship?
PICARD: What? The first on. Captain Debin. Captain, let me ask you again. What are Okona's crimes?
DEBIN (screen): That is not your concern.
PICARD: It is if you wish me to release him to you.
DEBIN (screen): All right, you want to know what he did? You want to know why I have chased him across this system? All right. Here, This is his crime.
DEBIN (screen): He dishonored my daughter. He took advantage of her, then he ran off and left her carrying his bastard child. He'll return, and he'll do the right thing or I'll hunt him to the ends of the galaxy.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Some of the mystery surrounding this ancient morality play we've been dragged into has been revealed. One of Captain Okona's pursuers is an outraged father with a heartfelt, if arcane, sense of righteousness.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Your advice, Counselor.
TROI: We are dealing with ancient codes involving procreation. While they may be meaningless to us, to Debin they represent his honor. He will fight, risking himself, his crew, his daughter and her unborn child.
OKONA: You know, Captain, your Counselor's right. He will fight.
WORF: The captain of the other ship is demanding to be heard.
PICARD: I don't suppose you can give me any indication why this man wants you?
PICARD: Let's put all this together. Lieutenant Worf, multiple image, full conference mode. Let them all see each other.
WORF: Yes, sir.
KUSHELL (screen): Here you are, Debin, trying to save this criminal.
DEBIN (screen): My purpose is not your concern.
KUSHELL (screen): It is if it involves Okona.
PICARD: Gentlemen, please, let's try and resolve this matter. Captain Kushell, what crime has Okona allegedly committed against you?
KUSHELL (screen): He is a thief. He stole the Jewel of Thesia. A national heritage.
DEBIN (screen): A thing. An item. My case involves the victimization of my daughter, and my honor. I'll have Okona now.
KUSHELL (screen): He is mine.
OKONA: One at a time. Who accuses me of stealing?
KUSHELL (screen): I do. My son Benzan and I.
BENZAN (screen): Father, please.
KUSHELL (screen): He used you to become my friend.
DEBIN (screen): He used my daughter.
KUSHELL (screen): He used my son to plunder a national treasure.
WORF: Mute.
PICARD: Terminate communications. Come with me.

[Ready room]
OKONA: Captain, you can't be afraid of those two or what they can do to your ship.
PICARD: No, they could fire until their lasers ran dry and they wouldn't hurt the Enterprise. My predicament is what to do with you.
OKONA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry my ship broke down. I'm sorry you stopped to help. I'm sorry you're involved. But you're right. Whatever happens, however it goes, someone gets hurt. Hand me over to Kushell, and Debin goes to war.
PICARD: And if I hand you over to Debin, then it's the same thing.
OKONA: I wish I could. I wish I could make it easier.
PICARD: I'm sure you do.
OKONA: I'm not going to apologize for the way I am or how I live my life, but just for the record, I did not steal the Jewel of Thesia. I am not a criminal, Captain. And as to the other business, that's between me and Yanar, no one else.
PICARD: In truth, I simply do not have authority in this matter. I'm not your judge, nor is it my duty to arbitrate. But you are in my custody, and that creates the dilemma.
OKONA: How about this? Do what you said. Fix my guidance system and let me leave.
PICARD: According to Starfleet regulations, that would be my only course of action. But their ships are faster than yours. I'm not doing you a favor.
OKONA: Captain, with all due respect, that's not your concern. Besides, I can take care of myself.

[Engineering]
OKONA: You're quite a craftsman, Lieutenant La Forge. How soon?
LAFORGE: What's the rush? I thought you liked it here.
OKONA: I did. It stopped liking me. Time to disappear.
WESLEY: Where will you go?
OKONA: What?
WESLEY: I said, where will you go?
OKONA: A new place, if I make it.
WESLEY: Don't you ever stay anywhere?
OKONA: Not for long.
WESLEY: I couldn't be like that.
OKONA: Oh?
WESLEY: I mean, always being alone. Commander Riker says you choose to live the way you do and you like it.
OKONA: Is that what he says?
WESLEY: Yeah. It would be difficult for me to be leaving all the time. I'd miss my friends, the people I love. I guess leaving's gotten easy for you.
OKONA: I seem to have a way of using up a place.
WESLEY: I wasn't talking about a place.
OKONA: I know. I know what you were talking about.
LAFORGE: It's ready. You should be able to install this in roughly five minutes.
OKONA: Like you said, Geordi, what's the rush? I have some friends around here. I think it's time to make a stand.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Okona.
OKONA: Captain, I've decided not to leave.
PICARD: Oh.
OKONA: Don't worry, I'm not staying either.
PICARD: Just what are your plans, Mister Okona?
OKONA: I've decided to surrender myself.
RIKER: To which one?
OKONA: There's really only one option.
PICARD: Viewer on. Gentlemen, communicating like this is very distracting. I suggest that we beam you up to the Enterprise and we resolve this face to face.
KUSHELL (screen): Excellent.
DEBIN (screen): Agreed.
RIKER: Leave your weapons behind. Let's keep this civilized.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge. Counselor Troi, would you accompany me to deck fourteen conference room. Worf, see to our guests.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
ROBINSON: They have no weapons.
WORF: This way.

[Conference room]
DEBIN: Okona, you are without shame.
KUSHELL: For once I agree with Debin. You are without shame. I trusted you. My son treated you like a brother. And then to steal from us. I want him now.
DEBIN: No, he's coming with me. Captain, my complaint was registered first.
PICARD: Now please, please, be calm. Lieutenant, thank you.
OKONA: Everyone is talking about me, and no one's talking to me. You all believe that I stole the jewel, and that it was I who fathered the child.
DEBIN: You dare call my daughter a liar?
OKONA: And now I'm offered these two choices, and given these two options, condemnation as a thief or marriage to the beautiful Yanar. I will take the more pleasant sentence. I will take Yanar as my wife.
BENZAN: No! You can't!
KUSHELL: My son is right. You can't escape that way.
BENZAN: That's not what I mean.
DEBIN: It's not up to you, or to Okona. I've been dishonored. I will decide.
YANAR: Wait. Since all of you believe Okona is the father of this child, then so be it. I'll marry you.
BENZAN: No! You can't.
YANAR: Yes, I can.
KUSHELL: Okona is still a thief.
BENZAN: No, he's not. Nothing has been stolen. The Jewel of Thesia has been taken into custody by its rightful heir. Me. I was to give it to Yanar as our pledge of marriage.
KUSHELL: Marriage?
BENZAN: Yanar is carrying my child.
DEBIN: You said it was Okona's.
YANAR: If I'd told you it was Benzan you would have gone to war with his father. So I let you believe it was Okona.
OKONA: See how a man gets a reputation?
BENZAN: If I had told you I was giving the Jewel to Debin's daughter, you'd have disowned me.
TROI: Now we're hearing some truth.
KUSHELL: So you let me chase Okona when you knew he was innocent.
BENZAN: Yes, because I didn't believe for one moment that you could catch him.
OKONA: Well, said. He never would have.
BENZAN: And once Yanar accepted the Jewel the marriage would have been made.
YANAR: Well, I never got it.
KUSHELL: Then Okona does have the jewel.
OKONA: I never had the chance to deliver it.
YANAR: Anyway it's too late. I won't marry Benzan.
DEBIN: Then you'll marry Okona.
YANAR: I won't marry anyone!

[Outside Holodeck]
DATA: I have reinstated the same program.
GUINAN: Along with some new jokes, I hope.
COMPUTER: Program complete. Enter when ready.

[Charnock's Comedy Cabaret]
DATA: Comic, continue.
COMIC: More freebies, huh? No cover, no minimum, just Comic, continue? Tell me, Data, what happened?
DATA: I told a joke.
COMIC: And?
DATA: No one laughed.
COMIC: No one? Nobody in the whole room?
GUINAN: I was the whole room.
DATA: She said I spoiled the joke.
GUINAN: Actually, killed would have been a better word.
COMIC: You know, Data, I think I know what your problem is. You should always try out new material on an audience.
GUINAN: You know, he could be right. Perhaps an audience is what you need.
DATA: Computer. Program an audience appropriate to this venue.

[Conference room]
OKONA: Yanar. You're angry at the embarrassment of all this, and maybe the timing and the approach is not the most romantic, but I know you love Benzan and I don't want to see you throw away that feeling just because your parents have been quarreling for years and don't know how to behave properly. I've carried your messages back and forth for almost six months. I've smuggled each of you into the other's homeland. You feel for him the same way he feels for you.
YANAR: I do love you. It is your child. Our child.
BENZAN: Marry me.
YANAR: Yes.
BENZAN: We'll find a new planet to live on.
KUSHELL: You'll live on Straleb.
DEBIN: No, no, no, no no. You'll live on Atlec.
KUSHELL: I will not have this man raising my grandson.
PICARD: The rest of this is an issue, gentlemen, to be settled between yourselves. Now if you will excuse us, we have business.
YANAR: Thank you, Captain.
DEBIN: Your grandson?
KUSHELL: My grandson.

[Charnock's Comedy Cabaret]
COMIC: Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming, folks. We got a great show for you tonight. I'm so excited this evening. Tonight I have for you the funny man of the stars, the android of antics, that Lieutenant Commander of mirth. Please give him a nice welcome, ladies and gentlemen, none other than. He's just the best. Data!
DATA: Good evening ladies and germs. I come from a town so small, we had a fraction for a zip code.
GUINAN: You made a living doing this?
COMIC: Yes, I did.
DATA: It was so small in fact we didn't have a godfather of crime, we had a nephew. I was so ugly as a child they hung a pork chop around my neck so the dog would play with me. And then there was the human cannonball who was hired and fired in the same night. Audience program off. Discontinue Comic.
DATA: It was a holodeck audience. They were programmed to laugh at everything. Perhaps I should reprogram the audience to display a more accurate response.
GUINAN: Data, let me give you one. Being able to make people laugh, or being able to laugh, is not the end all and be all of being human.
DATA: No, but there is nothing more uniquely human.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Hold your speed, Captain Okona. Disengage.
WESLEY: Separated.
OKONA (screen): I'm under my own power now. Thank you, Enterprise. Thank you, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Goodbye, Captain Okona.
WESLEY: Bye, Captain Okona. Say goodbye, Data.
DATA: Goodbye, Data.
DATA: Was that funny? Accessing. Ah. Burns and Allen, Roxy Theater, New York City, 1932. It still works. Then there was the one about the girl in the nudist colony that nothing looked good on?
WORF: We're ready to get underway, sir.
DATA: Take my Worf. Please.
RIKER: Warp speed, sir?
PICARD: Please.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any response from Gravesworld, Mister Worf?
WORF: Nothing sir. Not since their initial communication.
RIKER: They send out a plea for help, then they cut off transmission so they can't tell if there's any help on the way. Doesn't make much sense, does it?
PICARD: Ensign, what's our ETA at the planet?
WESLEY: Thirty six minutes to orbit, sir.
PICARD: Starfleet Command considers Graves' work on molecular cybernetics is reaching a critical stage. They consider this a priority one action.
PULASKI: A man is ill, Captain. Treating him is my priority one, regardless of who he is.

[Corridor]
TROI: Did Data say why he wants to see us?
LAFORGE: He said something about his new image. I tell you, he's been acting kind of strange lately.
TROI: How so?
LAFORGE: Well, if I didn't know better, I'd say he was showing signs of insecurity.
TROI: Yes, but you do know better. Androids don't feel such things.
LAFORGE: I don't know. Sometimes I think he's becoming more human than any of us realize.

[Data's quarters]
DATA (voiceover): Come in.
LAFORGE: Data?
DATA (voiceover): Geordi? Is Counselor Troi with you?
TROI: Yes, I'm here, Data. Geordi said you wanted to see us.
DATA (voiceover): Indeed. Or, stated more correctly, I wanted you to see me.
LAFORGE: Can we come in?
DATA (voiceover): Please.
LAFORGE: Did you damage your face, Data?
DATA: It is a beard, Geordi. A fine, full, dignified beard. One which commands respect and projects thoughtfulness and dignity. Well? Opinions?
TROI: It's er, very different.
DATA: When I stroke the beard thusly, do I not appear more intellectual?
TROI: I'm sorry, I have to go now. Goodbye.
DATA: Why was she laughing?

[Bridge]
WORF: We are receiving a transmission from Gravesworld, sir. It's unfocused. Not directed specifically at us.
PICARD: On viewer, Mister Worf.
KAREEN (screen): If anyone can hear me, please send a doctor. Things are getting worse.
PICARD: Try and raise her, Mister Crusher. Tell them we're only minutes away.
WESLEY: It's no good, sir. I don't believe they're receiving us.
WORF: Our records show that she and Graves are the only ones living on the planet, Captain.
RIKER: Then what scared her?
WORF: Captain, I am picking up another signal, but it is not from the planet.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf.
WORF: The signal is very weak, sir. Audio only.
PICARD: Pipe it through.
MAN (voiceover): Mayday! Mayday! This is the USS questing emergency assistance. The outer hull is breached and environmental systems compromised. Need assistance.
WESLEY: Captain, I show the Constantinople in that general vicinity. She's a transport ship, used to ferry settlers. I'm showing two thousand and twelve colonists aboard.
RIKER: Outer hull breach. She must have had an internal explosion.
PULASKI: If that's the case, they'll all be prone to severe hypoxia. Their lives are at risk. We've got to help them.
PICARD: And what about Graves?
PULASKI: He's one man.
RIKER: Suggestion, Captain. Why don't we execute a long range transport of an away team to assist Doctor Graves at earliest possible moment. We'd come out of warp just long enough to energize the beam.
PICARD: A touch and go down warping? Mister Crusher, prepare to make it so.
WESLEY: Aye sir.
PICARD: Engineering, Mister La Forge. We're going to execute a near warp

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Transport. This may be a little tricky. I would like you to handle it.
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm on my way.
PICARD: Assemble an away team, Number One. Include whoever the Doctor requires to assist.
PULASKI: Excuse me sir, but there may be hundreds on the Constantinople that require emergency attention. I should be there to supervise.
PICARD: All right, who will replace you?
PULASKI: Lieutenant Selar. She has my complete confidence.
RIKER: Worf, let's go.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Phaser on stun, Mister Worf. We don't know what's going on down there. There's no need to take any chances.
WORF: Agreed, sir.
LAFORGE: Now remember, this is a near warp transport, so the effects may be a little unusual.
TROI: What do you mean?
RIKER: You'll see, Counselor. Energize.
TROI: Now wait a minute. I don't understand

[Living room]
RIKER: You do now.
TROI: This might sound crazy, but for a moment I thought I was stuck in that wall.
WORF: For a moment, you were.
DATA: Data to Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): I read you, Commander. Go ahead.
DATA: We are inside Graves' home.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): All is quiet so far. Of course, no one knew we were coming.
PICARD: Use caution, but protect Graves' health

[Living room]
PICARD (voiceover): At all costs.
DATA: Understood, sir. I suggest we look around to see if anybody is home.
WORF: No need, Commander.
KAREEN: You heard me. Thank God. I'm Kareen Brianon, Doctor Graves' assistant.
TROI: We're from a ship called the Enterprise. We monitored your distress call but then you never acknowledged our response.
KAREEN: I'm sorry, I couldn't take the chance.
TROI: Chance? What chance?
GRAVES: The chance that I might find out someone was coming. Kareen knew full well that I would not be pleased, to put it mildly.
KAREEN: I had no choice. I refuse to stand by and watch you deteriorate.
SELAR: What symptoms have you noticed?
KAREEN: He has pain, shortness of breath, irritability.
GRAVES: Ridiculous! I'm as healthy as a Rigelian ox!
KAREEN: He's not himself, believe me. His temper is completely out of control.
GRAVES: Nonsense!
KAREEN: Ira!
SELAR: I am a doctor. Lieutenant Selar.
GRAVES: No offense, but I don't want you touching me in any way. It's no secret that I don't like people much, and I like doctors even less.
TROI: That's funny, I thought most doctors were people.
GRAVES: Then you're wrong. Ask any patient. Although I will admit, for a doctor you're not a bad looking woman. Well, well, well, what have we got here? Another lovely specimen of womanhood.
TROI: I thought you didn't like people.
GRAVES: Women aren't people. They're women.
TROI: I'm Deanna Troi. It's an honor to meet you, Doctor Graves.
GRAVES: Yes, of course it is. This is one of the truly great moments of your life.
KAREEN: Excuse me, sir. Are you a Romulan?
WORF: Hardly.
GRAVES: He's a Klingon, Kareen. Kareen has lived here since her father died when she was very young. Her only knowledge of unhuman races comes from me. Klingons and Romulans don't look much alike, Kareen, even though they act much alike.
WORF: Must I stand here and be insulted?
GRAVES: No insult intended, Mister Klingon. You see, Doctor, there's nothing wrong with my hearing. My, my, my, my.
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data
GRAVES: Shhh! Absolutely no esthetic value whatsoever. Looks like Soong's work.
DATA: Quite correct, sir! Did you know Doctor Soong?
GRAVES: Know him?! I taught him everything he knows. You could say that I was the father of his work. Which kind of makes me your grandfather, doesn't it sonny? Damn doctors! Always sneaking up on one. Attacking from the rear. Go on, gorgeous. Spit it out. Whatever the hell it is, I can take it.
SELAR: I've checked twice to make certain. You have Darnay's disease. I'm sorry, Doctor Graves. It's in it's final stage.
KAREEN: Can't you do something for him?
SELAR: In all cases, Darnay's is terminal.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42437.7. We've successfully repaired the stricken liner, Constantinople. Forty six of her people suffered injuries, mostly minor. They have been treated and supplied with the proper medicines. Our task complete, we are heading back to Gravesworld with great dispatch.

[Graves' laboratory]
DATA: I have noticed, Doctor
GRAVES: Call me Grandpa. Seems more touching in my final hours.
DATA: I have noticed, Grandpa, that you keep repeating the same notes of a musical phrase I am unfamiliar with.
GRAVES: It's an ancient little tune called 'If I Only Had A Heart.' A plaintive lament sung by a mechanical man who longs to be human. It's his only wish.
DATA: What happens to this man?
GRAVES: He finds out he's human after all. Always was. Just worried so much, he never realized it.
DATA: A happy ending. The mechanical man gets his wish.
GRAVES: Stories often have happy endings. It's life that throws you for a loop. It must be so hard for you, to be so close to being human and yet never really knowing what it's like to know pain.
DATA: But pain is unpleasant, is it not?
GRAVES: Pain. Lust. Envy. Pleasure. Desire. Do you know what desire is, Data?
DATA: Desire? To long for, to crave, a wish, a request, a
GRAVES: Do you know what desire is?
DATA: No. I do not suppose I will ever really know.
GRAVES: I feel pity for you. Your existence must be a kind of walking purgatory. Neither dead nor alive. Never really feeling anything. Just existing. Just existing. Listen to me. A dying man takes the time to mourn a man who will never know death. Funny, isn't it?
DATA: Funny. I have had great difficulty determining what funny is.
GRAVES: I've had the same difficulty most of my life. We're much alike.

[Living room]
SELAR: I'd say he has a week, but that's only an estimate. We do know that the disease attacks the brain and nervous system. We can expect more of the erratic behavior of the kind you've been noticing.
TROI: His feelings towards you are very warm. He's attracted to you in many ways.
KAREEN: Attracted? I know I've felt certain feelings from him. And for him. Had I been older, perhaps we could've been. That's not the way it worked out. And now it's like he's afraid to face me. The only one he talks to is your friend, Data.

[Graves' laboratory]
DATA: You mentioned your impending death, Grandpa. May I say you face it with remarkable courage and stoicism.
GRAVES: That is because I am an incredible man, possessing an iron will and nerves of steel. Two traits that helped me become the genius I am today as well as the lady killer I was in days gone by.
DATA: You condone homicide, sir?
GRAVES: It's an expression, Data. It means I was once as beautiful as I am smart.
DATA: Really, Grandpa?
GRAVES: No, not really. But what the hell. I'm dying. I can remember my life any way I want. And I'll let you into a little secret, Sonny. I don't really believe I will be dying.
DATA: But the Doctor
GRAVES: Oh, I'll die, but I won't really be dead. You see, I believe I've learned to transfer the wealth of my knowledge into a computer. Before I die, I plan to transfer my great intelligence into this machine, thus cheating the Grim Reaper of his greatest prize. But what would you know of death? It is a subject forever alien to you.
DATA: That is not necessarily true, Grandpa. I do have an off button, if you will. Its activation robs me of my consciousness, therefore rendering me dead for all intents and purposes. It is not something I enjoy contemplating.
GRAVES: I can understand that. Just where would Soong position such a device? Don't tell me, let me guess.

[Living room]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain to away team. We're standing by.
SELAR: I do not wish to interrupt Data and the Doctor. They seem to have developed a genuine rapport. But the Enterprise has reached it's orbit and I'd like to transport Graves to the ship as soon as possible.
DATA: That will not be necessary, Doctor. He is gone.
WORF: Gone?
DATA: It happened just a few moments ago, in my arms. Ira Graves is dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I leave Gravesworld with an empty feeling and the knowledge that our mission was unsuccessful. Whatever scientific secrets Ira Graves was about to unlock have been lost forever. Our immediate priority is to reach the nearest starbase so that Graves' assistant can get on with her life.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Why didn't you contact Doctor Selar when you saw that he was beginning to go?
DATA: To do so would have been pointless. All things must pass. May I go now, sir?
PICARD: Yes, of course.
DATA: We will try to honor him in the manner in which he specified, will we not, sir?
PICARD: I said we would, Data.
DATA: I am glad, sir. It was his dying wish.

[Ten forward]
KAREEN: Hello Data. It's good to see you again. The stars are so beautiful from space. Yet they seem
DATA: You always did love the sky. A stargazer. That is what you are.
KAREEN: Did Ira tell you that? I guess he's right. I used to spend hours just lying on a hill, looking up.
DATA: Ira never told you how beautiful you were to him. He never told you that, did he? He could not tell you, do you understand?
KAREEN: Yes. I understand.
DATA: He wanted to. Every waking moment. And he wanted you to know that. You were everything to him.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: He was a fine man. A man of rare gifts. and great accomplishments. He will be sorely missed. Does anyone else have anything to say?
DATA: I believe I have a few words to say, sir. Just look at that face. The face of a thinker. A warrior. A man for all seasons. Yes, Ira Graves was all that and more. But he was not perfect. Perhaps his greatest fault was that he was too selfless. He cared too much for his fellow man, with nary a thought for himself. A man of limitless accomplishments, and unbridled modesty. I can safely say that to know him was to love him. And to love him was to know him. Those who knew him, loved him, while those who did not know him, loved him from afar.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: I'm almost finished, sir.
PICARD: You are finished, Data.
PICARD: We now commit the body of Ira Graves to the timeless depths of space.

[Ready room]
DATA: I am sorry, sir. Perhaps it was my admiration for Grandpa that got the best of me.
PICARD: Grandpa?
DATA: That is the way I think of him, sir. My only living relative, no longer living.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: I was only trying to carry out his wishes. I just wanted to keep my promise to him.
PICARD: I know that, Data. Look, I realize you've been studying the human equation with great alacrity, but perhaps you've been working at it too much. Don't try so hard to be human. Just be yourself. All right?
DATA: Yes, sir. I will work on staying within myself.
PICARD: Grand. You're dismissed, Mister Data.
DATA: Thank you, sir. Captain's personal log. Although Commander Data has assured me that his odd behavior will return to normal, I can't help thinking that something went wrong during his visit to Gravesworld.

[Corridor]
TROI: I'm still concerned, Captain. I've never seen him act like this.
PICARD: Could it be that grandfather analogy that Graves planted in his head?. Data is an orphan in a manner of speaking. Is it possible that the loss of Graves might have affected him? Touched him on some emotional level we didn't know he possessed?
TROI: I hope you're right. I hope that's all it is.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: That was a great speech, Data. To know know him is to love him is to know him.
DATA: Verbal composition at it's most sophisticated level. Your child-like mind cannot appreciate the timeworn wisdom of my words.
WESLEY: Child-like mind?
DATA: When you get to be my age, you will understand.
WESLEY: Your age? Data, chronologically, you're not much older than I am.
DATA: You are only as old as you feel. Try to remember that, boy.
RIKER: You're not turning into a philosopher, are you, Mister Data?
DATA: I am many things. Scholar, Artist, philosopher, lover, genius.
WESLEY: Data, what's wrong with you?
KAREEN: How beautiful.
PICARD: I thought you might enjoy the Bridge, Miss Brianon. I'm aware of your interest in science. Perhaps you'd like to see the computer terminal
DATA: Yes, I'm aware of your interest in her.
PICARD: What was that, Commander?
DATA: Nothing sir. Nothing at all.
PICARD: These are the science stations. From the command center here, we have control of the science stations
WESLEY: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: I detest hypocrisy. I wish they would just come out and admit it!
PICARD: Admit what, Mister Data?
DATA: That your interest in Kareen is not purely professional. Try as you will, you cannot win her heart. She does not care for older men. Or men of limited intellect.
PICARD: Mister Data, you will come with me right now. Do you understand me?
DATA: I understand. I understand all too well. Removing the competition will not help you, Picard.
PICARD: Excuse me.
RIKER: Do you know what that was all about?
TROI: Jealousy. Intense, burning jealousy. A human emotion, and it was coming from Data.

[Ready room]
DATA: If you wish to apologize, I am prepared to listen.
PICARD: You expect me to apologize to you?
DATA: You were a bit rude to me. Might make you feel better if you said you were sorry.
PICARD: Data, something has obviously gone wrong with your circuitry.
DATA: That is ridiculous. I am as healthy as a Rigelian ox.
PICARD: I wish I could believe that. I would accompany you to to Sickbay, but I doubt if that would do us any good.
DATA: Sickbay? Are you ill, Captain?
PICARD: I'm getting there. I'm going to have Engineering run a full physical on you.
DATA: I am sure that will not be necessary, Captain. I am fully capable of running a circuit check on myself. It will immediately determine any abnormalities.
PICARD: Do it. That's an order.
DATA: Just as I expected. I am fine. Could not be better.
PICARD: For the first time since I've known you, I don't believe you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Try and hold still, will you, Data?
PICARD: Data, will you wait for me in the corridor.
DATA: Why should I? This concerns me more than it does any of you.
PICARD: You will wait for me in the corridor. His insubordination is growing by leaps and bounds. I could use discipline, but I'd rather try and help him.
LAFORGE: I wish I knew what to suggest. I'm damned if I can find a thing wrong with him.
TROI: Perhaps we're looking in the wrong place.
PICARD: Meaning?
TROI: Well, if Data's physical health is unimpaired, perhaps his mental health needs to be addressed.
LAFORGE: What, are you saying that Data is losing his mind?
TROI: With your permission, Captain, there is one way to find out.

[Data's quarters]
TROI: Now, Data, you remember the psychotronic stability examination. We all had to take it before graduating from the Academy.
DATA: It was a waste of time then and it is a waste of time now.
TROI: It will just gage your psychological reactions to the images it projects. Watch the screen and let your mind go blank. The device will do the rest.

[Ready room]
PICARD: It's safe to say that you're his best friend. Is it possible to speculate about what's happening to him?
LAFORGE: Well, sir, it's just a guess, but, sometimes he wants to be human so badly he can taste it. I think he just tends to get confused when his human qualities surface.
PICARD: Go on.
LAFORGE: Witnessing Graves' death may have been some sort of catalyst for the way he
TROI: I have the results of the tests. I ran them several times to be sure.
PICARD: To be sure of what?
TROI: There are two disparate personalities within Lieutenant Commander Data. Each distinctly different. A dominant and a recessive.
PICARD: But he's an android. Is that possible!
TROI: It must be. The dominant personality is unstable. Brilliant but vain, sensitive yet paranoid. And I believe it is prone to irrationality.
PICARD: Of course.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Nothing. Go on.
TROI: It seems to have an especially strong hatred of you, Captain, or to a lesser degree, any authority figure. And worst part is, it's growing.
PICARD: How do you mean?
TROI: The alien persona is getting stronger and gobbling up what is left of the weaker ego, the Data we know. If something isn't done to stop it immediately, we will lose our Data forever. Captain's personal log. We have arrived at Starbase Six where Miss Brianon will await transport back to Earth. I am greatly troubled by the unusual behavior of Commander Data and fear that somehow it is directly related to the experiments of Ira Graves.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Where is Data now?
TROI: He should be in his quarters. You ordered him not to leave.
PICARD: Tell me, where is Lieutenant Commander Data?
COMPUTER: Current location, Ten forward.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, will you go to Ten forward and keep an eye on Data? Don't interfere with his actions unless you hear otherwise from me.
WORF (voiceover): Worf here, sir. Acknowledged.
PICARD: I want to know more about what happened down on Gravesworld. Lieutenant Selar, report to the Captain's ready room.

[Ten forward]
DATA: Hello, Kareen. Don't you think it's time we stopped pretending? You know who I am.
KAREEN: You're Data.
DATA: You do know who I am.
KAREEN: Ira?
DATA: It is me. I am here. I am alive.
KAREEN: How?
DATA: I deactivated Data and transferred my mind into his frame. I never imagined how much of my self I would retain. My feelings, my dreams.
KAREEN: They won't let you get away with it. They'll try to stop you.
DATA: How can they? It is my body now. It is out of their hands.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Doctor, tell me. How much time did Data and Graves spend together?
SELAR: They were together practically the entire time we were on the planet.
PICARD: Always alone?
TROI: Yes. Always.
PICARD: Doctor, what was your impression of Graves?
SELAR: He seemed brilliant, egocentric, arrogant, chauvinistic.
PICARD: Sound familiar?

[Ten forward]
DATA: Something wonderful has happened. I can take a deep breath now without feeling stabbing pain. I will never have to face death again. Think of the things I will accomplish over the next thousand years! What? Oh, I know what you're thinking. There is no need to worry. I will create an android body for you, too. We can witness the end of time together. Why are you crying, Kareen? I can love you now. The way I always wanted to. It was not right before. I was too old for you, too weak. Now I can be everything you want me to be.
KAREEN: I won't let you put me in a machine. I want to live my life. I won't let you take it away from me. Ira! Ira, you're hurting me!
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard.

[Ready room]
WORF (voiceover): Commander Data has left Ten forward. Should I follow?
PICARD: Negative. I'll handle this myself. He was an expert in cybernetics?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Our memorial service may have been premature. What an achievement. 'So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee.'
TROI: He was working on bridging the gap between man and machine.
PICARD: It seems he built that bridge. I may be forced to tear it down.

[Engineering]
DATA: I can hear you coming, Captain. My ears are better than the average dog's, you know.
PICARD: I know who you are and what you've done.
DATA: Of course you do.
PICARD: I came here to talk to Data.
DATA: I cannot allow that.
PICARD: I understand your desperation. The shock of learning you were dying. But you had no right to do what you have done.
DATA: I had every right, Captain. I am man, he is machine. There is no question who must live and what must die.
PICARD: What of Data?
DATA: Data? Before me, he was nothing. Just a walking tin can with circuits for intestines. Pathetic. Without heart, a man is meaningless. I would not come up here if I were you, Captain. I might not like it.
DATA: You are most fortunate, my dear Captain, that I am not a violent man.
PICARD: Not a violent man?
DATA: This is not my fault. They told me I was not supposed to be up here. They should not have done that.
PICARD: Graves, listen to me. No one can deny the significance of your transformation. But I don't believe that this was part of your plan. Encountering Data was mere coincidence. One that offered you more than you could have dreamed. But something has gone wrong. Look here. Graves, this experiment must be terminated.
DATA: This is idiotic.
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay.
PULASKI (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: How is Miss Brianon?
PULASKI (voiceover): Her left hand is fractured in two places. We've just begun treatment.
PICARD: I'm afraid there are two more injuries in Engineering.
PULASKI (voiceover): I'm on my way.
PICARD: Who's next?
DATA: These were all accidents. I did not intend
PICARD: How many more accidents? You must leave this body.
DATA: No, I live here now.
PICARD: Graves, every man has his time. Every man, without exception. But you've cheated. You have extended your life at the expense of another. Graves, give Data back. Give him back.
DATA: Data is dead.
PICARD: No. He must not be lost. He's not simply an android. He's a life form, entirely unique.
DATA: Data is not human! He is
PICARD: He is different, yes. But that does not make him expendable, or any less significant. No being is so important that he can usurp the rights of another. Now set him free!
DATA: No!
DATA: How many? How many more accidents?
PICARD: Data! Where is he?
PULASKI: Just take it easy.
PICARD: I can't afford to take it easy, Doctor. Tell me, where is Lieutenant Commander Data?

[Data's quarters]
LAFORGE: Data. Data, can you hear me?
DATA: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DATA: May I ask a question?
LAFORGE: I think you just did.
DATA: Quite correct. Then may I ask another question after this one?
LAFORGE: You can ask me anything you want.
DATA: Why am I lying on the floor in this undignified position with the four of you standing over me, displaying expressions of concern?
PICARD: I've heard more than enough. You're you again.
KAREEN: Captain. Captain, look at this.
KAREEN: He's in there. Ira put himself in the computer.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've said goodbye to Kareen Brianon, with the hopeful feeling that her future will be a bright one. The intellect of Ira Graves has been deposited into our computer. There is knowledge but no consciousness. The human equation has been lost.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: And you don't remember anything?
DATA: Not a thing.
WESLEY: To know him is to love him is to know him?
DATA: Perhaps it is best that I do not remember. I trust I did nothing unbecoming to a Starfleet officer?
RIKER: Does wrestling with a Klingon targ ring a bell?
PICARD: Mister Crusher, take us out of orbit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Did I win?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42477.2. The Enterprise has been diverted to the Ramatis star system. It seems that both sides of a bitter planetary conflict have petitioned Starfleet to transport to their world a mediator they have mutually selected. Our orders are transportation only, no interference.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reduce to half impulse.
WESLEY: Reducing velocity to one half impulse.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Ah, Number One. Look at this. Ever since we left the Lima Sierra system, I have been puzzling over how the third planet could maintain such an orbit, when it is theoretically impossible. But consider this.
RIKER: There's no degeneration.
PICARD: Exactly.
RIKER: Why?
PICARD: Why? I haven't a clue.
RIKER: Perhaps this facsimile lacks the proper mass.
PICARD: Perhaps, but if this is an accurate representation, it could explain what happened in that system.
RIKER: Perhaps.
PICARD: Well, not a matter of great moment, just a knot I had to untie. So, what do you want to see me about?
RIKER: We've arrived at Ramatis Three.
PICARD: Oh well, time to leave.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Standard orbit.
PICARD: Mister Data, you have the Bridge.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Transporter room five. I'm still a little uncomfortable with your leading this away team.
PICARD: This is not an away team, Commander. I consider this a ceremonial function. For me not to go could be construed as lack of interest.
RIKER: You will be careful, sir
PICARD: Oh, cluck, cluck, Number One.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You're being a mother hen. I appreciate your concern. Actually I'm looking forward to meeting this mediator.
RIKER: We came a long way to get him.
PICARD: They wanted the best. That, according to all reports, is Riva.

[Corridor]
PICARD: If he can put an end to all the years of blood-letting on those planets, I think we should do everything in our power to assist him.
RIKER: Our job is not to police the galaxy.
PICARD: Isn't that my speech, Number One? No, of course you're right. We must not get involved.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Coordinates have been input, sir.
TROI: Have your sensors indicated any problem down there, Lieutenant?
WORF: None.
TROI: But you're feeling a certain confusion about this mission.
WORF: No.
TROI: Yes. I've never known you to have such strong emotions, except when you're expecting to do battle.
WORF: I am not expecting battle.
RIKER: Then what is bothering you?
WORF: Riva.
PICARD: Ah. Riva negotiated several treaties between the Klingons and the Federation.
WORF: Before him, there was no Klingon word for peacemaker.
RIKER: Then I can understand why you're feeling uneasy.
PICARD: Now look, this is a simple ceremonial greeting, nothing more. All right?
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Energize.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, this is the Enterprise.

[Room]
PICARD: We've arrived safely, Number One, but so far we've been ignored. I'll keep you informed.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I would appreciate it.

[Room]
TROI: Captain.
WORF: Sir.
TROI: Riva.
WOMAN: Please, come closer. Before I start, is there anything you need? Food, refreshments?
PICARD: Thank you, no.
SCHOLAR: Then proceed.
PICARD: Greetings from the United Federation of Planets. I am Captain Jean Luc Picard, of the USS Enterprise. This is Counselor Troi. Lieutenant Worf.
ADONIS: Greetings.
SCHOLAR: Welcome to Ramatis.
WOMAN: I have been expecting you.
ADONIS: You are empathic.
TROI: Yes.
ADONIS: Then although you already know my feelings toward you, allow me to put them into words. I am looking forward to this journey, now more than ever, because it gives me the chance to be in your company.
TROI: I am flattered. I too am look forward to learning more about you.
PICARD: There are aspects to Riva of which we have not been informed.
WOMAN: Precisely. Our way of communicating has developed over the centuries and it's one that I find quite harmonious.
PICARD: Then Riva the mediator
WOMAN: Is deaf.
PICARD: Deaf?
WOMAN: Born, and hope to die.
PICARD: And the three of you speak for him?
CHORUS: Yes.
SCHOLAR: We serve as translators. We convey not only his thoughts, but his emotional intent as well. I am the Scholar. I represent the intellect, and speak in matters of judgment, philosophy, logic. Also, I am the dreamer, the part that longs to see the beauty beyond the truth which is always the first duty of art. I am the poet who
ADONIS: Artists, they tend to ramble, neglect the moment. I am passion, the libido. I am the anarchy of lust, the romantic and the lover. I am also the warrior, the perfect line which never wavers.
WOMAN: I am that which binds all the others together. I am harmony, wisdom, balance.
PICARD: Remarkable. And so these
SCHOLAR: Speak to me!
PICARD: What?
SCHOLAR: Speak directly to me.
PICARD: The uniqueness of this presentation provoked this inadvertent breach in protocol. No insult was intended.
SCHOLAR: Then none is perceived.
PICARD: I'm curious about how this rare form of communication came about.
WOMAN: The gene for hearing is not present in my planet's ruling line.
SCHOLAR: Not that unusual, indeed it is similar to the House of Hanover of your planet Earth, all who had hemophilia. Or the leaders of Fendaus Five, who were without limbs.
WOMAN: Many of the galaxy's greatest contributors have been similarly special.
SCHOLAR: My Chorus is so attuned, they can hear my thoughts and translate to you. It is a relationship which goes back for centuries. Their ancestors provided the same service to my ancestors.
TROI: Your method of communication is most elegant and quite beautiful.
ADONIS: It takes a fine mind to realize that, Counselor Troi.
TROI: This part of you doesn't speak very often.
ADONIS: Only when the spirit moves me.
PICARD: Riva, if you are ready, the situation at Solais Five is very critical. We should not delay.
SCHOLAR: Very well.
WORF: With your permission, Captain.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Worf.
WORF: Enterprise, this is the away team. Seven to beam up.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Commander Riker. The away team, plus four, is on board.
RIKER: Acknowledged. Ensign, set your course for Solais Five.
WESLEY: Course is set.
RIKER: Velocity, warp eight.
WESLEY: Warp eight, aye.
RIKER: Engage, Ensign.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: What is this?
PICARD: Riva id deaf. These three speak for him. Treat them as interpreters. Address yourselves directly to Riva. Now, may I present my First Officer.
SCHOLAR: First, Captain, may I say it is an honor to be on board such a fine vessel. Now, please, continue with the introductions.
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander Riker.
SCHOLAR: It is an honor to meet you.
PICARD: Lieutenant Commander Data.
SCHOLAR: It is a pleasure to meet such a unique individual.
DATA: Thank you.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge.
LAFORGE: It is my pleasure to meet you, sir.
WOMAN: What is that you're wearing?
LAFORGE: A visor. It interprets the electromagnetic spectrum and then carries the readings to my brain.
WOMAN: And without it, can you see?
LAFORGE: Without it I'm as blind as a stump.
WOMAN: Then your visor serves the same function as my Chorus, which interprets my thoughts and translates them into sound?
LAFORGE: Yes.
SCHOLAR: And you don't resent it?
LAFORGE: The visor or being blind?
SCHOLAR: Either.
LAFORGE: No, since they're both part of me, and I really like who I am, there's no reason for me to resent either one.
SCHOLAR: What is your position on the ship?
LAFORGE: I'm the Chief Engineer, sir.
WOMAN: It's a blessing to understand we are special, each in his own way.
LAFORGE: Yes. Yes, that's the way I feel exactly.
PICARD: I offer the hospitality of my vessel. And at your convenience, there is a briefing on the Solari wars. If you wish, I'll have you conducted to your quarters.
WOMAN: Thank you.
ADONIS: Perhaps, if it is not inconvenient, Counselor Troi could escort me. With your permission.
TROI: This way.
RIKER: What about you?
WOMAN: At times like this, we become an encumbrance.
SCHOLAR: So, if you have rooms for us?
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf will escort you.
RIKER: Riva's not what I expected.

[Guest quarters]
ADONIS: Much of what we do is similar.
TROI: Yes, I suppose in a way it is.
ADONIS: We have both learned how to allow people to examine feelings hidden deep within their psyche. In fact, with you here now is provoking an emotional revelation.
TROI: You mean some emotion buried in your psyche?
ADONIS: Well, not that deep.
TROI: Exactly what are you feeling?
ADONIS: Can't you tell?
TROI: Some of it.
ADONIS: Well I feel that soon, perhaps after the briefing by your Captain, that you will be hungry, and that perhaps we could dine together and compare experiences.
TROI: I'd like that.
ADONIS: As will I.
TROI: Will he be with us?
ADONIS: Well, until we find our own method of communication.
TROI: I look forward to that time.
ADONIS: As do I.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I'm sorry, Data. Begin the briefing.
DATA: The factions on Solais Five are historical enemies. So many have died that both societies are on the verge of extinction.
SCHOLAR: Enough. Thank you, Captain, there is no need to continue. The specific issues of the conflict have no relevance.
RIKER: So none of the background which we have provided would be helpful in understanding why they continue to fight?
SCHOLAR: The portfolio will indicate that the conflict is over a piece of land, or wealth, or some other tangible asset. But we both know that is not the case.
RIKER: They've been at war for so long, it has become personal.
SCHOLAR: Exactly. The basis for peace must also be personal. This is an historic confrontation, correct?
DATA: The factions have been at war for fifteen centuries.
SCHOLAR: What's changed?
DATA: I do not know what you mean.
SCHOLAR: They have been killing each other for a long time, now they want to talk peace. So something about this situation has recently changed. What's the new piece to the puzzle?
PICARD: Data?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
RIKER: Perhaps they have run out of people to kill. In any case, whatever the reason, peace is now preferred, which should make your job easier.
SCHOLAR: Well, if not easier, at least possible, for now they are motivated. But it doesn't matter. I'll find something. I always have.
PICARD: Always?
SCHOLAR: To date, I have never failed. Now, unless there is something else?
PICARD: No. This is for your benefit.
WOMAN: Then, thank you for your time and effort.
ADONIS: I believe I have to get ready for a dinner appointment.
WOMAN: If you will excuse me.
PICARD: Yes, of course. The meeting is adjourned.
RIKER: Our mediator is very self assured. We'll know soon enough if he can deliver.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: We're approaching Solais Five.
RIKER: Half impulse.
WESLEY: Slowing to one half impulse.

[Guest quarters]
ADONIS: The sound of this ship is quite remarkable. Can't you feel it?
TROI: Yes.
ADONIS: It moves through my body like a great pulse.
TROI: I've grown so accustomed to it, I forget it's there.
ADONIS: It's easy to let that happen. Sometimes we must allow the surroundings to flow over us, to dwell on each separate part, how it feels, to allow it to fill you.
TROI: How do we communicate? I know you can read lips, but I need your words.
TROI: Words are here on top. What's under them, their meaning, is what's important. Yes, that's true. We both know how to express important words, like dream. Being here with you. Yes, being here with you know is very special to me, too.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit.
WORF: Captain, I'm reading laser activity on the Solais Five.
RIKER: How concentrated is the activity?
WORF: It is localized, but very intense.
RIKER: So much for the cease fire.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: I'm receiving one side only.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean Luc Picard, commander of the Federation starship USS Enterprise. If you continue to violate the cease fire, I will abort this mission.
ALIEN 1 (screen): You have no jurisdiction here, Picard. Where is Riva?
PICARD: Riva is in charge of the summit. I command the ship that brings him. I will not endanger this ship under any circumstances.
WORF: The other faction is breaking through, sir.
ALIEN 2 (screen): Riva gave his word we would speak to no one else. Now who breaks the rules? Where is Riva?
PICARD: I shall summon him for you. Get Riva here.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER (voiceover): Counselor Troi, please have Riva report to the Bridge.
TROI: They need you on the Bridge, now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The cease fire has been broken.
SCHOLAR: I'm sure I can resolve that. Put them on the viewscreen.
PICARD: Viewer on.
WORF: The quality of the transmission is very poor.
SCHOLAR: It is sufficient.
ADONIS: Brothers. Your bravery as fighters is known. Now you must demonstrate courage in a new way. Cease hostilities. Allow us to meet.
WORF: The laser fire has ceased.
RIKER: For how long? These Solari don't seem likely candidates for peace.
SCHOLAR: I will need to see a topographical overlay of the battle area in order to pick a site for the meetings. Then I will need your help in creating the proper setting.
RIKER: Worf, prepare your security team.
WORF: Yes, sir.
ADONIS: That's not necessary.
RIKER: But it is prudent.
ADONIS: I prefer to arrive with the smallest possible complement. We do not want to add to an already tense situation.
PICARD: If that is your judgment, so be it. We are here to provide whatever service you require.
ADONIS: Thank you, Captain.
SCHOLAR: There. beam us down to that hilltop and inform the factions to join us. The time for killing is come to an end.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Phasers on stun, Mister Worf.
SCHOLAR: You won't need those.
RIKER: I'm sure we won't. Energize.

[Hilltop]
SCHOLAR: Yes, this will do. It is important that we set this up properly. Commander. If it be possible, I would like torches here and here.
RIKER: Engineering.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): This is the away team.
LAFORGE: Yes, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): We are going to need your help.
LAFORGE: I thought you might.

[Hilltop]
RIKER: We would like two torches. Head high? And what else?
SCHOLAR: A table here.
RIKER: Describe it.
SCHOLAR: Three sided, and if possible made to resemble indigenous rock.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Did you read that, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I did. That should be no problem.

[Hilltop]
RIKER: When will the emissaries arrive?
SCHOLAR: It shouldn't be too long.
RIKER: And how long do you think the negotiations will take?
SCHOLAR: They won't go quickly.
WORF: They're coming, Commander.
SCHOLAR: The first few minutes will be very tense. Please stay calm, and do not respond even if you are provoked.
RIKER: We'll do our best.
ALIEN 1: Who is Riva?
WOMAN: I am Riva.
WOMAN: Be at ease. I commend you both. To come here proves not only your courage, but your wisdom. Please, give this conference a chance.
SCHOLAR: I have no magic. You have been fighting all your lives. You know only
ALIEN 3: No, no, never! Death first!
RIKER: Riva!
ALIEN 2: Don't! Traitor!
ALIEN 2: No, wait. Wait.
RIKER: Away team to Enterprise. Beam us up. Now!
ALIEN 2: His words are not mine. Please, Riva.
ALIEN 2: We need you. We need you!

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: How did this happen?
RIKER: A total surprise. Apparently a member of one of the factions didn't like the idea of peace.
PICARD: I don't understand what you're trying to say. Counselor?
TROI: Riva, go slowly. Slowly.
PICARD: Can you write it out? I am so sorry that your friends were killed. I'm sorry, I don't know what you are trying to tell me. We have to find some way to communicate with him. Data, he knows some kind of gestural language. Find our which one and learn it.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, take him to Sickbay. Maybe Pulaski can help. Listen to me. You are not alone. Do you understand? We are all in this together now.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are monitoring increased military activity on Solais Five. I fear that without Riva, we will be unable to keep the Solari from destroying themselves.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How's it going?
DATA: I have eliminated all but five distinct forms of signing. I will learn them all. Computer, show me gestural language designation M nine.
WORF: Interesting. A technique of communication which is both silent and covert. It could be very useful.
DATA: The use of gestures and hand signals pre dates the spoken word in most cultures. The major exception being the Leyrons of Malkus Nine who actually developed a written language first. Computer, continue presentation. Increase. Increase. Increase. Increase.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: How's our mediator.
TROI: The same. He's withdrawn. He's very frightened. All of his life he's been in control, and now for the first time he doesn't have any answers. The doctor gave him a complete medical examination.
PULASKI: His condition is hereditary. His brain cannot receive auditory information. So all the prosthetics and surgical techniques I can use wouldn't work.
TROI: I don't know what we can do to help him.
PULASKI: I can't do anything.
TROI: It's up to him, and he's stopped cooperating.
PICARD: Counselor, couldn't you?
TROI: Confidence is faith in oneself. It can't easily be given by another.
PICARD: You're right, of course. Come.
DATA: Captain, I have reviewed and stored five distinct signing languages. Here is an example of the first. This is blue. This is a blue ocean. This is a blue ocean at sunset. This is two people walking along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two happy people in love walking along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two people
PICARD: Enough. Let's talk to Riva.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Riva, Commander Data has learned your sign language. Talk to us.
DATA: It was my fault. I am responsible for their deaths. In my arrogance I thought no one could possibly harm the great Riva. I am such a fool.
PICARD: You are not to blame. What happened appears to have been the work of one desperate man. It may not reflect the feelings of the others.
DATA: They were more than my interpreters. They were also my friends. They were a part of me. I did not realize how much a part until now.
PICARD: We have been contacted by the factions on Solais. They want to renew negotiations.
DATA: I cannot. I will not.
TROI: Don't turn away. You have a chance to make some good come out of this tragedy. This could be the catalyst which binds them together.
DATA: Someone else will have to speak with them, not me. Not after what I allowed to happen/ How could I?
PICARD: But Data can understand you. Use him. Let him explain your words.
DATA: When Data speaks for me, can you hear my anguish, my despair? Data is a fine machine, but he cannot take the place of my chorus. It took years to develop a communication. That cannot be easily replaced.
TROI: The Solari need you.
DATA: I cannot help them. Captain, please take me back to Ramatis.
PICARD: That is regrettable. A lot more people are going to die.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: It's possible to install optical devices which look like normal eyes, and would still give you about the same visual range as the visor.
LAFORGE: Done? You say almost. How much reduction?
PULASKI: Twenty percent. There is another option. I can attempt to regenerate your optic nerve, and, with the help of the replicator, fashion normal eyes. You would see like everyone else.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. I was told that was impossible.
PULASKI: I've done it twice, in situations somewhat similar to yours. Geordi, it would eliminate the constant pain you are under. Why are you hesitating?
LAFORGE: Well, when I came to see you, it was to talk about modifying this. And now you're saying it could be possible for me to have normal vision?
PULASKI: Yes.
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'd be giving up a lot.
PULASKI: There's something else you must know. This is a one shot. If you decide to change your mind, there's no going back. And there are risks. I can offer choices, not guarantees.
LAFORGE: Well, this is a lot to think about. I'll get back to you, Doctor. Thank you.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: The Captain is going to take you to Ramatis. But first, he's given me permission to attempt to settle the conflict down on Solais. Yes. We've come so far, and paid such a terrible price, I must try. Help me.
DATA: You would be better off without my help.
TROI: I have never attempted anything like this before. When dealing with two factions so diametrically opposed, so entrenched in their positions, where do you start?
DATA: You want to know if I had some special technique?
TROI: I want to know anything you can tell me that could help.
DATA: There is no trick. I had no magic.
TROI: What about your Chorus?
DATA: Yes, my Chorus was special. They allowed me to combine different perceptions.
TROI: So there was a trick.
DATA: Not really. My technique was to look for some thing, no matter how small, that was common to both groups, and then to begin a process where one person or one group expresses themselves to each other.
TROI: That's very hard to accomplish.
DATA: Yes, but what is even more difficult is to get each side to listen, really listen to each other, and to understand.
TROI: This isn't going to be easy for me.
DATA: You are very good with people.
TROI: But what I do is different.
DATA: The real secret is turning disadvantage to advantage.
TROI: Why can't you do that? Why can't you turn your disadvantage into an advantage?
DATA: That is an interesting. It would give them something in common. I do not understand, Counselor. To what is he referring?
DATA: Thank you. Thank me? Ah!
PICARD: I will have the Captain contact then down on the planet and tell them to prepare for your return.

[Transporter room]
WORF: There are no life signs in the immediate area.
RIKER: All right, stay sharp. We may have to get out of there in a hurry. Set phasers on stun. Energize.

[Hilltop]
WORF: The area is clear, Commander.
DATA: Put the table over there.
RIKER: Engineering, this is Commander Riker.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Go ahead, sir.
RIKER: You can beam the table and torches down now.
DATA: Light the torches to let them know that I am back.
RIKER: It may be quite a while before the emissaries arrive. They'll be more cautious after the last incident.
DATA: You may leave whenever you choose. I will send out a message when I am ready to go.
RIKER: Deanna, I don't understand what he's going to do. How can he mediate without his interpreters? He won't even be able to talk to them.
TROI: Riva is going to teach them sign language.
DATA: Yes, it is turning a disadvantage into an advantage. Learning sign will be a part of their process of learning how to live together in peace.
TROI: While they are learning how to communicate with Riva, they'll be learning how to communicate with each other.
DATA: And that is the first and most important aspect of any relationship. Counselor, it took me only moments to learn sign language. It will take them months.
TROI: Time well spent.
DATA: These people have been fighting all of their lives. They know only hatred, suspicion, and fear. Even with my Chorus, I could not have changed their attitudes in a day. We have a chance. They want the talks to be successful.
RIKER: I'm still not comfortable leaving you here alone.
DATA: Thank you for your concern. I will be fine. And thank you, for everything.
RIKER: Enterprise, four to beam up. Good luck. First Officer's log, Stardate 42479.3. We leave the Solais system confident that Riva will help the Solari achieve a lasting peace.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Coordinates set, Commander.
RIKER: Take us out of orbit.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me?
PICARD: Yes. You read me well enough to sense how I feel about you and what you do on this ship. But I just wanted to say the words. Thank you. Well done.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42494.8. The Enterprise is bound for Star Station India to rendezvous with a Starfleet medical courier. We've been told only that our presence is imperative. Hopefully the mission will give me further opportunities to assess the performance of our new Chief Medical Officer.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Come, sit down. Counselor, you've had the opportunity to observe Doctor Pulaski for some time now. How would you evaluate her as a Chief Medical Officer?
TROI: I've never met a more dedicated physician. I would say she has a passion for her work.
PICARD: Yes, of course. I entirely agree. Is it possible that such consuming dedication could interfere with her judgment?
TROI: I feel your concern, Captain, but I don't share it. Perhaps because I've had the opportunity to spend more time with her and get to know her better.
PICARD: Yes, perhaps you're right.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, we are picking up a faint distress signal on an open subspace frequency. It appears to be coming from an adjacent sector.
PICARD: Respond on the same frequency.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are you locked on to that transmission?
DATA: Aye, sir. A voice only transmission from the USS Lantree, a Federation supply ship.
PICARD: USS Lantree, this is Picard of the Enterprise. What is the nature of your emergency?
VOICE (voiceover): Can't hold out any more. People dying. Too many to help.
DATA: We are still receiving their signal, Captain, but there is no message.
PICARD: Lantree. Are you under attack? Lantree? USS Lantree, this is the Enterprise. Come in, Lantree. Replay that last transmission.
VOICE (voiceover): Can't hold out any more. People dying. Too many to help.
RIKER: Have we got a fix on her?
DATA: Two point two milli-parsecs, bearing three zero at one four five degrees.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: We'd better take a look. What kind of vessel is she?
DATA: The Lantree is a Class Six Federation supply ship assigned to Gamma seven sector, Captain L.I. Telaka commanding. Normal complement, twenty six officers and crew.
RIKER: Armed?
DATA: Class three defensive only.
RIKER: Is she still underway?
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Adjust course to intercept. Warp seven.
WESLEY: Adjusting course to intercept. Warp seven, sir.
LAFORGE: Engineering, transfer to Bridge.
WESLEY: We are closing on the Lantree, Captain.
PICARD: Take us out of warp. Establish parallel course. Match speed.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Lantree, this is the Enterprise. Captain Telaka, this is Picard of the Enterprise. Do you read me?
DATA: No life signs, Captain.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: Nothing, Captain.
RIKER: What else have we got in the neighborhood?
WESLEY: No other vessels of any kind within two parsecs.
WORF: No battle damage.
DATA: All systems seem functional, Captain. Everything is in perfect order.
WORF: We have to board her, Captain.
PICARD: Possibly, Mister Worf. Number One?
RIKER: If we gain control of her systems remotely, we could activate the viewscreen. That way we could at least look at the Bridge.
PICARD: Agreed.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Computer, security override request.
COMPUTER: Identify.
PICARD: Picard, Jean-Luc, Captain, USS Enterprise. Request control access Starfleet ship USS Lantree, Isao Telaka commanding.
COMPUTER: Enter access code.
PICARD: Omicron omicron alpha yellow daystar two seven. Enable.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have verified receipt of the access codes for the Lantree, Captain.
PICARD: Grand. Commence operations.
RIKER: Our first move will be shut down the engines.
LAFORGE: Standing by, Commander.
DATA: The Lantree computer reports access codes received and accepted, sir.
PULASKI: Sickbay on alert, Captain.
LAFORGE: Interlock is engaged. The Lantree is responding, sir.
DATA: We have override control of her Bridge, Captain. All systems answering.
PICARD: All right, let's have a look.
LAFORGE: Lantree Bridge monitor engaging.
PICARD: Are you reading anything, Doctor?
PULASKI: Still no signs of life, Captain.
PICARD: Magnify. That must be Captain Telaka on the left. Let's look at him. Closer. My God.
RIKER: Looks like they had a battle with time.
WORF: And lost.
PULASKI: Heart, lungs, liver, everything.
PICARD: What is it?
PULASKI: They died of natural causes.
PICARD: Natural causes? What in nature could cause that?
PULASKI: For the record, Captain, they died of old age.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We've downloaded the Lantree's log, sir.
PICARD: Play back the Captain's last entry.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42493.1. There are only six of us left. We've set course for the nearest Federation outpost, but I am afraid it's too late. All attempts to analyze what is happening have failed. In the last few hours I've watched friends grow old and die, and I'm seeing it happen to me. Captain L.I. Telaka, USS Lantree.
RIKER: Captain Telaka was my age, sir.
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: Every member of the Lantree crew had a complete examination at the beginning of this duty cycle eight weeks ago. They were in perfect health.
TROI: Nothing else since?
PULASKI: A single medical entry noting that the First Officer was treated for Thelusian flu five days ago.
PICARD: Thelusian flu?
PULASKI: It's an exotic but harmless rhinal virus. It couldn't have caused this.
RIKER: The last port of call of the Lantree was the Darwin Genetic Research Station on Gagarin Four three days ago.
PULASKI: Whatever happened, it could be something that the Lantree crew already had or it could have come from Gagarin. At the very least, the people from Darwin Station deserve a warning. We may have to consider a quarantine.
PICARD: You'll agree that we should quarantine the Lantree.
PULASKI: Absolutely.
RIKER: Lieutenant, initiate the quarantine transmitters on the Lantree and activate her marker beacons. We'll need to find her again.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Quarantine warnings active on all frequencies, Captain.
LANTREE (voiceover): Extreme caution. The USS Lantree is a quarantined vessel by order of Starfleet Command. Do not board.
PICARD: Set course for Gagarin Four, warp seven.
WESLEY: Course and speed set, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We're en route to the Federation Research station on Gagarin Four. The mere thought of a possible connection between the Lantree tragedy and a genetic research facility fills me with profound apprehension.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: We're approaching Gagarin Four, Captain.
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Darwin Station, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
KINGSLEY (screen): Enterprise, this is Darwin Station. I'm Doctor Kingsley. We've just declared a medical emergency here. We need your help.
PULASKI: Doctor Kingsley, what is the nature of your emergency?
KINGSLEY (screen): To whom am I speaking, please?
PULASKI: I'm Doctor Pulaski, Chief Medical Officer.
KINGSLEY (screen): Katherine Pulaski, author of Linear Models of Viral Propagation?
PULASKI: That was a long time ago.
KINGSLEY (screen): But still the standard. I can't think of anyone I'd rather be dealing with. Doctor, we're experiencing the rapid onset of geriatric phenomena. The first symptom is sudden, acute arthritic inflammation. Then the aging process accelerates.
PULASKI: The Lantree.
KINGSLEY (screen): Doctor Pulaski, I celebrated my thirty fifth birthday a week ago.
PULASKI: Doctor, we understand that Darwin Station is involved in genetic research. Is there a possible connection?
KINGSLEY (screen): Our research here is limited to human genetics. I can assure you we're not dealing with something that got away from us. We believe that we were infected by a supply ship that was here three days ago.
PICARD: Doctor, if you're speaking of the Lantree, we encountered it a few hours ago. All the crew members were dead.
KINGSLEY: Which would seem to confirm our suspicion. Were you able to establish a pathology, Doctor?
PICARD: Doctor, did you hear what I said? All the twenty six men and women aboard that ship were dead.
KINGSLEY: I heard you, Captain, and the prognosis is alarming, but my immediate concern is our children.
PULASKI: Children?
KINGSLEY: They represent years of advanced genetic research. You must evacuate them as soon as possible.
PICARD: I'm sorry, but under the circumstances, until we know what's going on I'm imposing a full quarantine on Darwin Station.
KINGSLEY: But the children have been in protective isolation since this was detected. They show no symptoms. You cannot leave them here to die!
PICARD: Doctor, our options in a quarantine situation are extremely limited. We are going to consider the possibilities. I suggest you do the same.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I recommend against contact, Captain.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I have to agree, sir. I wish there was something we could do, but the risk is too great.
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: If the children are free of disease, as Doctor Kingsley said, they should be evacuated. I would like to bring one of them aboard within a force field for a complete examination.
PICARD: Counselor, do you sense anything?
TROI: Doctor Kingsley sincerely believes the children are not a threat, but she's not telling us the whole truth. I recommend caution.
PICARD: We have only Doctor Kingsley's assurance that these children are not infected, whereas we have seen the results of this disease first hand. In a case like this, I think we should err on the side of caution.
PULASKI: All right. We could beam up one child in styrolite in suspended animation. That way I could scan for possible infection without any danger to ourselves or to the child.
RIKER: But we don't know what we're looking for.
PULASKI: Exactly. And we won't know until we begin gathering data. Captain, that's worth some risk.
PICARD: There's always risk, Doctor. Proceed with the examination, but I shall require positive proof that these children are harmless before I place any of my crew in jeopardy.

[Science lab]
LAFORGE: The forcefield's ready, Captain.
PICARD: Activate it.
PICARD: Transporter?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): This is Chief O'Brien, sir. Almost ready.
PICARD: Is there a problem?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: It's the styrolite. I'm altering the delta-T so the styrolite coding materializes two micro-seconds ahead of the child.

[Science lab]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): It has to be right the first time.
PICARD: Well take all the time you need.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Entering corrections now, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Ready, Captain.

[Science lab]
PULASKI: Doctor Kingsley, are you ready to transport?
KINGSLEY (voiceover): You have the coordinates. We have one twelve year old male encased in number six styrolite.
LAFORGE: Transporter, energize.
WORF: A trick!
LAFORGE: Transporter, reverse
PICARD: One moment, Lieutenant. Whoever he is, he's still in stasis.
PULASKI: The styrolite is intact, Captain.
PICARD: Force field down.
TROI: Captain, there's a definite presence, a distinct personality. Even in stasis it's quite strong. The child is unquestionably telepathic.
PULASKI: A child this mature? We could be looking at the future of humanity.
PICARD: At least Doctor Kingsley's vision of it.
PULASKI: This child is in better health than we are. His immune system is so advanced it may not be possible for him to contract disease. I want to free him from the styrolite.
PICARD: That seems rather risky, Doctor.
PULASKI: I can do no further tests until he's out of it.
PICARD: But what if you're wrong? You saw what happened on the Lantree.
PULASKI: I know I'm right.
PICARD: I can't expose the Enterprise until I know where this disease came from and how it is transmitted.
PULASKI: I realize that, Captain. Naturally, we'll establish a force field containment.
PICARD: But if we lose the force field for any reason, we lose the ship. Force fields can fail, and until
PULASKI: We don't have that kind of time. These children can't survive in the lab once their parents are dead. Look at him, Captain. He's a human being who needs our help.
PICARD: But the risk is
PULASKI: Minimal.
PICARD: If you can demonstrate that he is biologically harmless without risk to the crew, I'll do everything in my power to assist. And Doctor, God knows I'm not one to discourage input, but I would appreciate it if you'd let me finish my sentences once in a while.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Deanna, do you have a minute? You've known the Captain for some time. I think I need some advice. I don't seem to be dealing with him very well.
TROI: Why do you say that?
PULASKI: Well, my arguments don't seem to have any affect on him. We just end up quoting regulations to each other. He has such a consuming dedication to his ship, he doesn't seem able to step back to see the human side of the equation.
PULASKI: What's the matter?
TROI: Kate, I don't think he'd be where he is if he couldn't see the human side of the equation. Perhaps the two of you aren't all that different.
PULASKI: What do you mean?
TROI: Let's just say you both have well established personalities.

[Doctor's office]
PULASKI: Doctor Kingsley, this is Kate Pulaski.
KINGSLEY (screen): Doctor? Do you have a decision?
PULASKI: I'm afraid it's bad news.
KINGSLEY (screen): How can that be?!
PULASKI: The risk to the ship and crew is too great. Until we absolutely know the cause of the disease, the children
KINGSLEY (screen): The children are harmless. Every test on them has been negative. I demand that you do something to save them. Please, Doctor. For God's sake, we haven't got much time.
PULASKI: Stand by. I'll get back to you.

[Engineering]
PULASKI: Geordi, I need your help.
LAFORGE: What is it, Doctor.
PULASKI: I need to prove the children are harmless. I can only do that in a fail-safe environment.
LAFORGE: The problem is there's no area on the ship that can be sealed off with absolute certainty, even with force fields.
PULASKI: Sickbay has an isolated system.
LAFORGE: But it's not possible to totally cut it off from the rest of the ship. The only truly independent environment would be something like a shuttlecraft.
PULASKI: A shuttlecraft. Why didn't you say so?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PULASKI: Captain, I'd like permission to put the boy in a shuttlecraft. I can study him there without risk to anyone else.
PICARD: What about you?
PULASKI: I'm prepared to take that risk. Someone has to breathe the same air he breathes, to touch him. I'm volunteering to make that test myself.
PICARD: Doctor, you have a responsibility to this ship which goes
PULASKI: I also have a responsibility to humanity.
PICARD: Starfleet guidelines about contact with quarantined
PULASKI: You don't have to quote the rule book. You were saying?
PICARD: Request approved.
PULASKI: Captain, you said if I. Approved?
PICARD: I recognize that you're trying to satisfy my conditions.
PULASKI: Thank you.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: You sent for me, Doctor?
PULASKI: I did, Commander. I assume that you're qualified to pilot this shuttlecraft.
DATA: Certainly. I took advanced training in the operation of auxiliary space vessels at Starfleet Academy, where I received
PULASKI: A more than passing grade, no doubt. Please, come aboard. We don't have much time.
COMPUTER: Shuttlebay three force field activated.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: You're certain the Captain approved this, Doctor?
PULASKI: You'll take us a few hundred meters away from the Enterprise and hold position.
DATA: Begin shuttlecraft launch sequence.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good luck, Doctor.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: We are in position, Doctor.
PULASKI: It's the only way to prove they're harmless.
DATA: And if they are not?
PULASKI: I hate to keep reminding you, but you are a machine. You'll be perfectly safe.
DATA: That is by no means certain, Doctor, but I was referring to you.
PULASKI: Medical research is sometimes a risky business. It's all part of being human. Shall we proceed?
DATA: Ready to transport.

[Transporter room]
DATA (voiceover): You have the coordinates, Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Shuttlecraft, maintain your position and stand by.
DATA (voiceover): Standing by.

[Science lab]
O'BRIEN: Transporter control, what's our status?

[Transporter room]
CREWMAN: We have a green panel, sir.

[Science lab]
O'BRIEN: Stand by to transport.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN: Energize.

[Shuttlecraft]
PULASKI: Oh, yes, I do. I understand you perfectly.
DATA: How could you, Doctor? He has not said anything.
PULASKI: Oh yes, he has. Troi's right. He's telepathic.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Time?
COMPUTER: Zero three two two exactly.
PICARD: She's been in direct contact with the boy for eighteen minutes.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: All systems are functioning within normal specifications, Doctor.
PULASKI: The manufacturer will be pleased to hear it. I appreciate your help, but your bedside manner needs work.
DATA: Bedside manner?
DATA: Doctor?
PICARD (screen): Doctor, I don't understand. What has happened?
PULASKI: There was no warning.
PICARD (screen): Explain.
PULASKI: Arthritic inflammation. It's the initial symptom of the disease.
PICARD (screen): What can we do?
PULASKI: Return the boy to Darwin Station. Apparently the children are carriers.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Chief O'Brien, are you ready?
O'BRIEN: I have the original coordinates of the Darwin isolation lab, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Quickly, please.
O'BRIEN: Shuttle One, hold your position.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Holding.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by to transport.
PULASKI: It wasn't your fault.
PICARD (voiceover): Tell us what you need, Doctor.
PULASKI: There's nothing you can do, Captain. I'm not going to make myself an exception to the Darwin quarantine. Shuttle One out.
DATA: What is your condition, Doctor?
PULASKI: Not exactly up to factory specs. I'm sorry. The pain is tolerable, thank you.
DATA: Shall I set course for Darwin Station?
PULASKI: We're already under quarantined. What do we have to lose?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We can no longer consider the Darwin Station crisis our most immediate concern, although Doctor Pulaski's condition is inseparably linked with that emergency. Her safe return and that of Commander Data must take priority, please.
TROI: Shouldn't Doctor Pulaski be involved in this?
RIKER: From what we've seen on the Lantree, Doctor Pulaski may not have time to help herself.
TROI: Well I suggest we beam them both back onto the ship. Commander Data is most likely immune and surely the biofilter will
O'BRIEN: The transporter's biofilter won't protect us. The boy was transported twice already and still infected Doctor Pulaski.
LAFORGE: Couldn't we adjust the biofilter? We could alter the filter to screen out whatever it is that's causing the disease.
PICARD: But we don't know what's causing the disease. We can't protect ourselves against the unknown. What we need is some kind of filter that doesn't depend on known biological factors.
O'BRIEN: We might try the trace.
RIKER: The transporter trace?
O'BRIEN: As you know, the transporter keeps a record of all transmissions, a pattern if you will. Usually it's just stored for security purposes, but if we use the transporter trace to control the reconstitution process
LAFORGE: I don't think it's ever been tried quite that way before, but theoretically it is possible.
O'BRIEN: I'd have to make extensive modifications.
PICARD: Then do it. It seems we have no alternative.
RIKER: Where will we get the trace pattern? The Doctor's never used our transporter.
PICARD: Never?
RIKER: No. She's a woman of very strongly held opinions, sir. What was her previous assignment?
TROI: Her last ship was the Repulse.
PICARD: Bridge, Picard. Contact the USS Repulse using subspace captain's priority channel.

[Darwin Station Lab]
KINGSLEY: Oh, Doctor Pulaski. I can only tell you how much I regret the burden we've imposed on you. On both of you.
PULASKI: Commander Data is an android, Doctor. He is unaffected. As for me, I chose this. I was convinced the children were safe.
KINGSLEY: I still can't believe you were infected by one of our children.
DATA: The evidence is fairly conclusive.
KINGSLEY: You don't understand. They were designed to resist disease.
PULASKI: I think it's time we talked about that.
KINGSLEY: Let me show you something.
KINGSLEY: Our ultimate achievement. The oldest is twelve, and all are telekinetic. Watch.
PULASKI: Genetically engineered?
KINGSLEY: Not engineered, created. Perfect in every way. Their body structure, their musculature, their minds.
PULASKI: You were telling me about their immune system.
KINGSLEY: That was our masterpiece. We gave these children an aggressive immunity. The rest of us were infected by the supply ship, but they were protected.
DATA: The Lantree logs indicated that only one crewman had any illness prior to arrival here. The First Officer had a mild case of Thelusian flu.
KINGSLEY: Yes, he was one of the crewmen who came in direct contact with us.
PULASKI: The Thelusian flu would have little effect on you, but tell me, how would they react?
KINGSLEY: Their immune system would release an active antibody that would attack the virus.
PULASKI: Even at a distance?
KINGSLEY: Their immune systems don't wait for a disease to attack the body. It would seek out an airborne virus and destroy it.
PULASKI: Destroy it? How, exactly?
KINGSLEY: The antibody would adapt itself to alter the genetic code of the virus.
PULASKI: Commander, I want an analysis of the interaction between the Thelusian flu and the children.
DATA: On a molecular genetic level?
KINGSLEY: We don't have time for that. Genetic analysis could take months.
PULASKI: Not necessarily. Commander Data has a way with computers.

[Ready room]
TAGGERT (screen): Sorry, Picard. We erased Doctor Pulaski's transporter pattern right after she transferred. Not that she used the transporter much, she preferred using the shuttlecraft. I would have given her a shuttle if it would have kept her here.
PICARD: Tell me, Taggert, if she served you as well as you say, why did you let her go?
TAGGERT (screen): I see you haven't run into her stubborn streak yet. As soon as she found out about an opening on the Enterprise, she put in a request for transfer. Knew your service record backward and forward. Apparently she's been an admirer of yours for some time.
PICARD: Extraordinary.

[Darwin Station lab]
PULASKI: Commander, what have you got?
DATA: The answer, I believe, Doctor. The Lantree was not the source of the disease, but it was the trigger.
KINGSLEY: Trigger?
DATA: The Lantree's First Officer exposed your children to Thelusian flu for the first time. Their active immune systems set out to attack the virus, and once it was triggered, it kept going. The antibody created an unexpected side-effect. It alters the genetic make-up of normal humans. This is a comparison of the normal and altered DNA. These are the two molecules that have been transposed.
PULASKI: And since our DNA is self replicating, the process
DATA: Is irreversible.
PULASKI: Judging from what happened on the Lantree, anyone is a carrier once they're infected.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Have you made any progress, Doctor?
PULASKI (screen): I'm afraid so, Captain. The children don't carry the disease, they are the cause.
PICARD: What do you mean?
PULASKI (screen): Their advanced immune system has created an antibody that changes normal DNA. The altered genes are the ones that control aging.
PICARD: Then why did it attack you more quickly than Doctor Kingsley?
PULASKI (screen): The enclosed environment of the shuttlecraft concentrated my exposure. The Lantree's First Officer carried the antibody onto his ship. It had the same effect on his crew.
PICARD: Right, what's the next step?
PULASKI (screen): The children will survive, but the rest of us are just about out of time.
PICARD: Doctor, I want you back aboard this ship. We'll beam you up in suspended animation like the boy. That will give us more time.
PULASKI (screen): Captain, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I got into this by leaping before I looked, and I won't allow you to make the same mistake. Chief Medical Officer's log. This will be my final report to the Enterprise. Just as changes in evolution are known to be caused by changes in the environment, we now know the process also works in reverse. An attempt to control human evolution has resulted in a new species that's lethal to its predecessors. The children will be condemned to live out their lives in isolation. Quarantine of the Darwin Station must be maintained for ever.

[Darwin Station lab]
DATA: I am sorry I could not be more helpful, Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: You did everything you could, Commander. As androids go, you're in a class by yourself.
DATA: Doctor
PULASKI: Please, give my best to the Captain.
DATA: Enterprise. Commander Data ready to beam aboard.

[Bridge]
TROI: Captain, Kate knew what she was doing.
PICARD: I wish I could be certain that we'd tried everything.
WORF: Commander Data is ready to come aboard, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Transporter room]
CREWMAN: No life forms present.
O'BRIEN: You may step down, sir.
PICARD: Data, tell me if. It's good to see you again.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Now, quickly. If the changes in Doctor Pulaski's DNA were reversed, would it be possible
DATA: It is not reversible, sir. The subtle molecular transposition of
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. But say if it were undone, would she be normal again?
DATA: As normal as ever, sir.
PICARD: You said that the transporter could be modified to filter out the changes in Doctor Pulaski?
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir, but we were unable to locate her trace pattern.
PICARD: Well, what if we used a sample of her DNA, say from a blood test taken before she was exposed to the disease? Could that be used to filter out the genetic changes?
O'BRIEN: Well, I'd have to get into the biofilter bus to patch in a molecular matrix reader. That's no problem. But the waveform modulator will be overloaded without the regeneration limiter in the first stage circuit.
DATA: Interesting. However, theoretically,
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Can you do the modifications?
O'BRIEN: I think so, sir.
PICARD: Then make it so.
O'BRIEN: You heard what he said. Let's get those panels off.

[Doctor's office]
RIKER: A blood test, a tissue sample, anything that would have a sample of Doctor Pulaski's original DNA.
DATA: No, sir. Her records were shipped by way of Starfleet headquarters. They have not caught up with us yet.
RIKER: This is ridiculous. A cell, a single cell. Let's check her quarters.

[Pulaski's quarters]
RIKER: Anything. A fingernail, a hair.
DATA: Hair brush.
DATA: It has a follicle, sir. Live cells.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Darwin Station, this is the Enterprise.
PULASKI (screen): Go ahead, Captain. I'm here.
PICARD: Doctor, we may have a solution. We have a sample of your normal DNA to use as a filter in the transporter. We think that we can beam you aboard while filtering out any of the genetic problems caused by the disease.
PULASKI (screen): Interesting theory, Captain. If it works, we could use the same technique to save Doctor Kingsley and her colleagues.
PICARD: I think you should know, this has never been attempted before.
PULASKI (screen): Well, I'll tell you one thing. If I live through this, I'll have a much better understanding of geriatrics.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: All set, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Almost ready, sir. There's just one thing.
PICARD: Yes?
O'BRIEN: This modification's one way only. If it doesn't work we won't be able to reverse transport the Doctor back to the planet.
PICARD: Then I'll operate the transporter controls myself. If she's going to be consigned to oblivion, then
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir. I'll be monitoring the medical scans. But you'll be able to tell if it's worked by watching the stack.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, are you ready?
PULASKI (voiceover): I suppose I am, Captain.
PICARD: Here we go.
PICARD: It's not working.
O'BRIEN: Captain, wait.
DATA: Doctor.
LAFORGE: Good to see you, Doctor.
PICARD: Welcome back, Doctor. Come.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Captain, if this hadn't worked?
PICARD: If this hadn't worked, it would have been necessary to beam your energy into empty space.
PULASKI: And spread my atoms spread across the galaxy.
PICARD: Yes. I'm sorry.
PULASKI: No, no, don't be sorry. Every time I get into the damn thing, I'm convinced that's what's going to happen. Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. The adults of Darwin Station have been restored to normal health using our transporter. They will remain on Gagarin Four and continue their research in hopes of one day rejoining their children.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Impulse speed.
DATA: There she is, Captain.
PULASKI (voiceover): Scientists believe no experiment is a failure, that even a mistake advances the evolution of understanding.
RIKER: Close to forty kilometers.
WESLEY: Forty kilometers, aye, sir.
PULASKI (voiceover): But all achievement has a price. For one brief glimpse at the mysterious blueprint of human evolution, the men and women off the USS Lantree paid with their lives. Their sacrifice is thus noted in this scientist's log.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, arm the photon torpedoes.
WORF: Torpedoes ready, Commander.
LANTREE: Extreme caution. The USS Lantree is a quarantined vessel by order of Starfleet Command. Do not board.
PICARD: Gentlemen.
LANTREE: Extreme caution. The USS Lantree is a quarantined vessel by order of Starfleet Command. Do not board.
RIKER: Set course and speed for Star Station India.
WESLEY: Course and speed set, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching Starbase one seven nine.
RIKER: Half impulse, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Going to half impulse.
RIKER: Captain, this is the Bridge. We have arrived at Starbase one seven nine.
PICARD (voiceover): Acknowledged, Number One.
RIKER: Establish position zero nine zero mark three four five at twenty seven thousand kilometers. Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
RIKER: Starbase one seven nine, this is the Enterprise.
STARBASE (voiceover): Enterprise, this is Starbase one seven nine. We are ready for transfer on your mark.
RIKER: Thank you. Commander Data, you have the bridge. Ensign Crusher, you're with me.
DATA: Starbase one seven nine. We are ready to commence transfer.
STARBASE (voiceover): Acknowledged, Enterprise. Begin transfer.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I'm Commander William Riker, your First Officer. Those of you who are here as replacements will step outside follow Lieutenant Lewis. He will assign you to your crew quarters. Ensign, you're here on the exchange program. If you'll just follow Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Mordoc, what are you doing here? You couldn't have graduated from the Academy already.
MENDON: I am not Mordoc. I am Mendon. Ensign Mendon from the planet Benzar.
WESLEY: Sorry. It's a friend of mine. You look just like him.
MENDON: We are from the same geostructure. Naturally we look alike.
WESLEY: How do you tell each other apart?
MENDON: We just do.
RIKER: It's nice to have you here, Ensign. There will be a briefing and indoctrination session in fifteen minutes.
MENDON: I want to tell you how happy I am to be assigned to the Enterprise. It wasn't just luck. I requested it. I know I can be of great help to the ship.
RIKER: Yes, of course. If you'll just follow Mister Crusher.
MENDON: Yes, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker, report to the Phaser Range, please
RIKER: On the way.

[Phaser range]
PICARD: I was wondering if you had any feelings about the Officer Exchange Program initiated by Starfleet Command.
RIKER: Just positive ones, sir. Actually, I just welcomed Ensign Mendon on board. He certainly seems eager to please.
PICARD: Well, that's a Benzite trait. It's been suggested that an officer from the Enterprise might participate in the program.
RIKER: That's probably a good idea.
PICARD: Well, there is a Klingon vessel in the area.
RIKER: I don't recall hearing of a Federation officer serving ever on a Klingon vessel.
PICARD: No, no, neither have I.
RIKER: It might prove to be beneficial.
PICARD: Having Worf on board certainly has been.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Who did you intend to send, sir?
PICARD: I thought of asking for a volunteer.
RIKER: I might be interested, sir.
PICARD: Damn. Sorry, Number One, what was that?
RIKER: I said I wouldn't mind the assignment, sir.
PICARD: Any particular reason?
RIKER: Because nobody's ever done it before.
PICARD: I'll notify Starbase of your acceptance They'll contact the Klingon vessel, make the arrangements.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departed from Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with the Klingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker's temporary assignment.

[Corridor]
WORF: I have studied and know everything about my heritage.
RIKER: Then you're just the person I need to talk to, clear something up. It's my understanding that one of the duties of the First Officer of a Klingon ship is to assassinate his Captain?
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Wouldn't that bring about chaos?
WORF: Of course not. When and if the Captain becomes weak and unable to perform, it is expected that his honorable retirement should be assisted by his First. Your Second Officer will assassinate you for the same reasons.
RIKER: The method of attrition must take a little getting used to.
WORF: The Klingon system has operated successfully for centuries.
RIKER: It is different.
WORF: Many things will be different.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN: Can I help you, sir?
MENDON: That's a wonderful method of maintaining a constant control factor over defensive shields, but I'm sure there's a way to improve response time. Sorry. Didn't mean to interrupt you. Just thought I could be of some help. However, I am correct in what I said.
MENDON: That is superb designing. Absolutely first rate.
WESLEY: Yes, it is. Would you care to be more specific?
MENDON: The input sampling. It's simple yet efficient enough. Of course a minor change of the helm readout would be much more helpful in emergency situations.
WESLEY: We've never had any problems with it. Have you seen it work?
MENDON: Not in a practical exercise, but in theory, my theory, it would be more than a marginal improvement. I'll have to mention this to the Captain. He is open to some astute observations, isn't he?
WESLEY: I've never known the Captain not to listen to one of his officers.
MENDON: Outstanding. Soon we'll get things running perfectly.

[Ten Forward]
PULASKI: What is that?
RIKER: It's a Klingon delicacy. Pipius claw. This is heart of targ. This, of course, is gagh.
PULASKI: Gagh?
RIKER: Yes, serpent worms. Would you like some?
PULASKI: No, thanks. I've never heard of a Klingon starving to death on his own vessels, but you might.
RIKER: Not if I weaken first.
PULASKI: I know all about that. Their beliefs are rather brutal, but usually what kills us kills them.
RIKER: That's certainly good to know. Would you like something to drink?
PULASKI: I'm abstaining in honor of your last hour on board.
RIKER: Your sacrifice will not go unnoticed.
PICARD: Well, I'm familiar with the practice of the feast before the transfer. I've done it dozens of times. However, I usually made more palatable choices.
RIKER: These are the more palatable choices.
PICARD: Thank you. We know so little about them. There really is so much to learn. This is a great opportunity. I envy you, Mister Riker.

[Corridor]
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: An emergency transponder?
WORF: Slightly altered to transmit an omnidirectional signal and an emergency call.
RIKER: You suspect trouble?
WORF: Simply a security precaution. I want to insure your return to this ship.
RIKER: Sentiment, Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: Efficiency, Commander.
RIKER: I understand. Thank you.

[Bridge]
WORF: We have a Klingon vessel approaching.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open. They are returning our hail in proper language. It is the Pagh.
PICARD: On viewscreen. I'm Captain Picard of the Enterprise.
KARGAN (screen): This is Captain Kargan of the Klingon vessel, the Pagh. Beam your First Officer on board immediately.
PICARD: We are preparing to do so. And, Captain, you're getting a fine officer.
KARGAN: Thank you for your opinion, but I will judge that for myself. Screen off.
MENDON: Not very hospitable, are they?
WORF: That is not your concern. Observe your station, Ensign Mendon.
MENDON: Didn't mean to offend you.
WORF: You didn't. Yet.
PICARD: Transporter, prepare to beam Commander Riker aboard the Pagh.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Good luck, Commander.
RIKER: Thanks, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't want to go.
RIKER: Why?
O'BRIEN: You're not afraid, are you.
RIKER: No, I'm not.
O'BRIEN: I would be. Ready, sir.
RIKER: Thanks. Energize.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Resume course, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye sir.
PICARD: Take over, Commander Data, I'll be in observation.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
MENDON: Sir. I am Ensign Mendon. I just wanted to tell you how pleased I am to be aboard the Enterprise.
PICARD: Yes, of course. Good to have you aboard.
MENDON: If you have a few minutes, I've noted a few procedural items which might speed up operations on the Bridge. I pick things up very fast.
PICARD: Yes, of course you do. You have an excellent record. However, here on the Enterprise we use the chain of command. You will report your observations to Lieutenant Worf.
MENDON: I beg your pardon, Captain. I just wanted to impress upon you
PICARD: No need to apologize, Ensign. We should have explained it better to you at your indoctrination.
WORF: Ensign Mendon. You may impress me.

[Pagh corridor]
RIKER: Is something wrong?
TACTICS: No. It's just I have never seen anyone of your species before
RIKER: I'm just an average, everyday human who happens to be a Commander. Now, what were your orders?
TACTICS: To escort you to the Captain.
RIKER: Proceed.
TACTICS: Yes, Commander.

[Pagh Bridge]
RIKER: Commander William Riker of the Starship Enterprise.
KARGAN: That is incorrect.
RIKER: I don't understand.
KARGAN: You are Commander William Riker, First Officer of the Klingon cruiser, the Pagh. Or do you intend to disobey Federation orders?
RIKER: I have no such intention, sir.
KARGAN: Exactly where are your loyalties, Commander?
RIKER: I'm afraid I still don't understand, sir.
KARGAN: This ship is equipped with our best weapons and our finest warriors. Although we are on a peaceful mission, we are ready to go into battle instantly. I know I can count on every Klingon warrior in this crew to serve and die in that battle. So I ask you again, Commander Riker. Where are your loyalties?
RIKER: I have been assigned to serve this ship and to obey your orders. And I will do exactly that.
KARGAN: Will you take an oath to that effect?
RIKER: I just did.
KLAG: Do not believe him! He lies!
KARGAN: Speak in their language. This is your Second Officer, Lieutenant Klag.
RIKER: Is there something you wanted to say to me, Lieutenant?
KLAG: Yes sir. I do not believe you.
RIKER: Then I take it you challenge my authority over you.
KLAG: Correct.
RIKER: And your position on this, Captain?
KARGAN: I would say it your first command decision.
RIKER: My oath is between Captain Kargan and myself. Your only concern is with how you obey my orders. Or do you prefer the rank of prisoner to that of Lieutenant?
KLAG: I will take your orders.
KARGAN: And you, Commander Riker, will obey my orders.
RIKER: Of course, Captain Kargan.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, automatic scan has registered an unknown substance on the aft quarter of the exterior skin of the dorsal section.
PICARD: Target that location and define.
WORF: Aye, sir.
MENDON: I've located it sir. The dorsal of the Engineering section.
DATA: Viewscreen on. Focus on area. Magnification factor ten. Increase magnification to fifty.
PICARD: Analyze.
DATA: The substance appears to be a rare form of subatomic bacteria, capable of doubling itself in size every fifteen minutes. It seems to be reacting with two of the compounds present in the Enterprise structure.
PICARD: Origin.
MENDON: Captain. I noticed it when I did an intensive scan of the Pagh. The Klingon ship.
PICARD: And whom did you inform?
MENDON: No one. I have not yet completed my full analysis.
WORF: You are supposed to report whatever is out of the ordinary.
PICARD: And I think that falls into this category.
MENDON: But sir, as I said, I have not yet completed my full analysis. It would be improper to report it until then.
DATA: How did you come to that decision?
MENDON: It is a Benzite regulation. No officer on the deck of one of our ships would report an occurrence like this until he had a full analysis and a resolution. I have simply followed proper procedures.
PICARD: It is our procedure, Ensign, to notify command of any possibility of danger to the ship. The decision is not yours. Do you understand?
MENDON: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Now, you will continue with your analysis and determine the danger, not only to our ship, but the Klingon vessel also.
MENDON: Yes, Captain. That will take a couple of hours.
PICARD: Use whatever resources are necessary. It appears we may have encountered a new life form. I want to know everything about it as quickly as possible. Commander Data, supervise.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: And then I will instruct you in Enterprise etiquette. First Officer's personal log. I have aboard the Pagh a short time, but long enough to be impressed with the abilities and single-mindedness of the Klingons.

[Pagh Mess hall]
TACTICS: Commander, you're not eating very much.
RIKER: I'm not that hungry.
KLAG: Is the food all right, Commander?
RIKER: It's delicious. The pipius claw was excellent. I also enjoyed this Bregit lungs.
VEKMA: And the Rokeg blood pie?
RIKER: Delicious.
KLAG: Good. Then you'll also enjoy this.
RIKER: Isn't that gagh?
KLAG: Very good. You did some research on our nutritional choices.
RIKER: Yes, but, it's still moving.
KLAG: Gagh is always best when served live. Would you like something easier?
RIKER: Easier?
KLAG: Yes. If Klingon food is too strong for you, perhaps we could get one of the females to breast feed you.
RIKER: You're not worried about my weakening, are you?
KLAG: Look around you. There are no old warriors.
RIKER: No, sir, I'm sure they all died with honor.
KLAG: Exactly. You may live long enough to learn about us.
VEKMA: He is not very attractive, but I will have him.
TACTICS: They are inquisitive. They would like to know how you would endure.
RIKER: Endure what?
KLAG: Them.
RIKER: One or both?
VEKMA: I may be back for you.
RIKER: Is she serious?
KLAG: Yes.
KLAG: Commander, would you say you're a typical Federation officer?
RIKER: I suppose so. Why?
KLAG: Well, it's just you're not what I expected.
RIKER: In what way?
TACTICS: You have a sense of humor.
RIKER: I was thinking the same thing about you. In all my dealings with Klingons, including our Lieutenant Worf, the thought never occurred to me of Klingons laughing.
TACTICS: There is much about us you do not know.
RIKER: That's why I'm here.
KLAG: You should ask.
RIKER: I may. After this tour, I may have some worthy questions.
KLAG: Questions about what? About our future? Our future is honor. Our present is serving this ship.
TACTICS: Like you, I have a mother and a father. They look like me, I look like them.
RIKER: Are they still alive?
TACTICS: My mother lives, My father was killed in battle at Tranome Sar.
RIKER: And your father?
KLAG: My father? My father was captured in battle by Romulans and not allowed to die. He eventually escaped.
RIKER: Where is he now?
KLAG: He is on our planet. He waits.
TACTICS: He waits for his death.
KLAG: He will eventually fade of a natural illness and die, weakened and useless. Honorless. I will not see him.
RIKER: He's your father.
KLAG: A Klingon is his work, not his family. That is the way of things.
RIKER: He's your father.
KLAG: Klingons do not express feeling the way you do.
RIKER: Perhaps you should.
KLAG: We would not know how.
RIKER: Yesterday, I did not know how to eat gagh.

[Bridge]
MENDON: It is confirmed that the organisms feed on some of the compounds that make up the hull of the Enterprise.
PICARD: And the Klingon ship, the Pagh?
MENDON: They are much more susceptible. Their hull contains more of the compounds.
PICARD: Projection.
DATA: According to the rate of reproduction, there should be a twelve centimeter opening in the Klingon hull at this time.
PICARD: Signal them at once. They could be unaware of the danger. They may need our help.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Change course to intercept.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: It will take some time to locate them, sir. They are on undesignated maneuvers in the Pheben system.
PICARD: Find them.

[Pagh Bridge]
KARGAN: Tell me, Commander Riker, what do you make of this?
RIKER: I felt no collision. Were we hit by a small meteor?
KARGAN: No. No collision.
RIKER: Corrosion, then?
KARGAN: No, not corrosion.
RIKER: Science Station, analyze.
KARGAN: We already have, and fortunately the cavity opened onto a section that could withstand the change in pressure.
RIKER: Then what is it?
KLAG: A space organism eating away at our hull.
RIKER: What are you talking about? What is it? I mean, you must have some way to repair it.
KARGAN: I'm afraid not.
KLAG: Our estimate is that in less than eight hours we will have lost too much of our shell to remain intact.
KARGAN: The only vessel we've had contact with recently is the Enterprise.
RIKER: There was no direct contact with the Enterprise.
KARGAN: Tactics Officer, report to Commander Riker.
TACTICS: The Enterprise did conduct an extensive scan of this vessel.
RIKER: That's normal procedure.
KARGAN: What type of beam did the Enterprise use to cause this damage in our hull?
RIKER: None. Why would they do that? We're allies.
TACTICS: But my logs indicate that the Enterprise directed an intense scanning beam at this specific area for a duration of two minutes.
KARGAN: Explain that.
RIKER: I can't.
TACTICS: It could be a weapon.
RIKER: It's no weapon. The Enterprise has no reason to do that, especially with me on board. It makes no sense. Why?
KARGAN: Why is no longer important. What is important is our response to this attack. Engage cloaking device. Change course to intercept the Enterprise.
RIKER: What do you intend to do, Captain?
KARGAN: Intend? There is only one response. I intend to attack the Enterprise and destroy it.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: You're making some progress. You've eliminated half the possibilities already.
MENDON: Thank you, but I seem to have become efficient a little later than was needed. It was my responsibility to learn and adapt to the Enterprise's regulations, and I didn't do that.
WESLEY: Not really. You just made an error. Captain Picard may not like them, but he knows they turn up from time to time.
MENDON: I failed, I had an opportunity to show the Captain my superior capabilities and I failed. I can never recover from that.
WESLEY: Mendon, it was a mistake. You didn't put the organism on the hull, you discovered it. You were trying to analyze it and messed up on protocol a little.
MENDON: I realize you're trying to be nice to me, and I appreciate it. What I don't understand is why.
WESLEY: Why not? I thought you could use a friend.
MENDON: Thank you. I only hope I can learn your ways before I mess up again. I imagine my methods must seem foolish to you.
WESLEY: They're different. But that's what this exchange program is all about. You learn the way we do things and take that information back to your command. It's up to them to decide which is better.
MENDON: You're right. I'll do it your way. I'll work even harder than I did before, and I'll succeed brilliantly.

[Pagh Bridge]
KARGAN: What is the status?
TACTICS: Unchanged. The rate of increase continues.
KARGAN: Commander Riker, check the organism growth with Engineering.
KARGAN: Keep him under scrutiny.
KLAG: Captain, I'm not convinced Riker knew of any plot against us. If he did, why would he have come on board?
KARGAN: Because he was ordered to.
KLAG: To die?
KARGAN: It's the expectation of any officer to be ordered to die at any time.
KLAG: For a Klingon perhaps, but Riker's people do not volunteer for death so easily. He may be a spy, but he's no coward.
KARGAN: That only proves that he is intelligent. And you might not be as strong as you used to be.
TACTICS: Captain, I've picked up the Enterprise.
KARGAN: So soon?
TACTICS: The Enterprise is on an intercept course with us.
KARGAN: You almost had me believing this was a misunderstanding.
RIKER: But?
KARGAN: The Enterprise has changed course and is following us. Why?
RIKER: Ask them.
KARGAN: The reason is obvious. Their intent is clear. How long before we make contact?
TACTICS: Less than fifteen minutes, sir.
KARGAN: Put the ship on full battle alert. Arm all photon torpedoes. Let them charge into their destruction.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, our bearings show that we should be in contact with the Klingon vessel now.
DATA: Slow to impulse.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Impulse speed.
WORF: Hailing frequencies are open. There is no response.
PICARD: Continue transmitting.
DATA: The Pagh is either cloaked or destroyed, sir.
PICARD: Conduct an intensive scan of the area.

[Pagh Bridge]
TACTICS: The Enterprise has slowed to impulse speed and is making an intensive sweep.
KARGAN: Hold your position. Let them come to us.
RIKER: They may be here to help you. Don't be a fool!
KARGAN: Do not forget my rank.
RIKER: I haven't. I am simply trying to help you understand.
KARGAN: I understand fully. Now, you understand. I am still Captain of this vessel and you are still crew and sworn to obey me. You gave me your oath.
RIKER: Yes, sir, I did.
KARGAN: Then fulfill that oath and serve this ship as you swore to. Tell me of the surest method of attack against the Enterprise.
RIKER: I won't.
KARGAN: You must. It is a matter of honor and loyalty to your oath.
RIKER: I will not surrender the secrets of the Enterprise to you.
KARGAN: If your word is no good, then how can we ever trust Starfleet?
RIKER: I will not break any vow I have taken in the past. I have also taken an oath a loyalty to your ship. I will not break that.
KARGAN: They are in conflict!
RIKER: No, sir, they are not! I will obey your orders. I will serve this ship as First Officer, and in an attack against the Enterprise I will die along with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty to Starfleet.
KARGAN: If you had told those secrets about the Enterprise, I would have labeled you a traitor and killed you where you stood. But instead you will die with us. You'll die like a Klingon.

[Bridge]
MENDON: Sir, I have something to report to you immediately.
PICARD: Yes, go ahead, Ensign.
MENDON: I have managed to isolate the organisms on our hull. They are a sub-micron form capable of breaking nuclear bonds in the tritanium plating.
PICARD: But can they be removed from the hull?
MENDON: Yes. They are controllable and can be removed from the hulls of both ships by using a tunneling neutrino beam.
PICARD: Thank you, Ensign. Well done. Initiate that procedure . Lieutenant, add that information to hailing messages.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Pagh Bridge]
TACTICS: Lieutenant.
KLAG: The Enterprise has changed hailing messages. They now include a promise of cleaning the organisms and helping in repairs.
RIKER: I told you, they're here to help.
KARGAN: I do not believe them. Arm all weapons. Prepare to attack!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42507.8. Although our search has been extensive, we are still unable to locate the Klingon ship or any evidence of it's destruction.

[Bridge]
DATA: Considering the absence of debris, Captain, it is reasonable to assume the Klingon vessel is in the area and cloaked.
PICARD: Agreed.
DATA: And since we do not know it's intent, I recommend we go to Red Alert.
PICARD: Make it so, Lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Pagh Bridge]
TACTICS: The Enterprise has raised its shields.
RIKER: That's normal procedure when entering into a suspicious situation. It's not an act of aggression. The Enterprise will not fire first.
KARGAN: Then they are fools, for we will.
RIKER: You'll get only one shot.
KARGAN: We'll only need one. Stand by on phasers and torpedoes. Prepare to fire them simultaneously.
RIKER: I recommend you don't fire until you're within forty thousand kilometers.
KLAG: Why?
RIKER: It will cut down their response time.
KLAG: You are honoring your promise to serve us?
RIKER: Would you do less?
KARGAN: You will give the order to fire, Commander Riker. Call out distances. Any questions, Mister Riker?
RIKER: There's one thing I'd like to say. I question your judgment. In my opinion, your reason for forcing this confrontation is not valid.
KARGAN: Are you finished?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
KARGAN: Commence with attack as ordered.
KLAG: Fifty five thousand kilometers and closing.
KARGAN: Is that a weapon, Commander?
RIKER: No, sir.
KARGAN: Give it to me.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are getting an emergency signal from a command transponder. Location zero three five mark three one three. Frequency and code designate it as Commander Riker.
PICARD: Chief O'Brien, lock onto that transponder signal.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Yes, Captain. We're not yet in safe range for a transfer

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: And defensive shields are still in place.
PICARD: We may have to stretch it.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): We have to know what's going on

[Bridge]
PICARD: And Commander Riker is the only one who can tell us. Beam him directly here onto the Bridge

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): On my command.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. I'll wait till forty thousand.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forty eight thousand. Forty four thousand.
PICARD: Transporter Room, stand by.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): You control the shields.
O'BRIEN: Ready, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forty thousand.

[Pagh Bridge]
KLAG: Forty thousand kilometers.
KARGAN: Prepare to drop cloaking shields, and fire when ready. Steady.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, energize.

[Pagh Bridge]
RIKER: Hold where you are, Klag. I've relieved Captain Kargan. He was acting in an irrational manner. I'm your Captain now. Serve this ship as I have!

[Bridge]
KARGAN: Where am I?
PICARD: You're on board the starship Enterprise.
KARGAN: Riker has no honor. He tricked me!
DATA: He's only dazed, sir.
PICARD: Well that's fine, but where's Commander Riker?

[Pagh Bridge]
RIKER: Cloaking shields off. Obey my orders.
TACTICS: We will be destroyed.
RIKER: If we are, it will be in battle, and I will die with you. So I repeat, cloaking shields off!

[Bridge]
WORF: It is the Pagh, sir.
DATA: It has all armament locked on us and ready to fire.
PICARD: Hold this position. Hailing frequencies. Calling the Pagh. This is the Enterprise. We are here to assist. Do not fire.
KARGAN: They will not believe you.

[Pagh Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Pagh, we're here to assist. Do you read me?

[Bridge]
RIKER (screen): Enterprise, this is Captain William Riker of the Klingon vessel, Pagh. I order you to lower your shields and surrender.
PICARD: Lower shields. Surrender, as ordered.
KARGAN: I demand to be beamed back aboard my vessel!
PICARD: Transporter Chief, prepare to beam Captain Kargan back aboard the Pagh.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Captain Riker, we can carry out your repairs immediately.
RIKER: Thank you, Captain Picard.

[Pagh Bridge]
KARGAN: You should have killed me.
RIKER: I don't want your command.
KARGAN: But you tricked me to get it.
RIKER: Either way, you can have it back.
KARGAN: Then return to your station.
KARGAN: Get him off my ship!
KLAG: Yes, Captain. You understand the Klingons better than I thought, Commander.
RIKER: Thank you, my friend.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: That might have been one of the shortest assignments in the history of Starfleet.
PICARD: Wrong, Number One. It was almost the longest. Well done.
RIKER: Thank you. Actually, I learned quite a bit.
PICARD: Apparently, not when to duck.
RIKER: When not to duck would be more accurate.
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Number One. Now, Lieutenant, conduct the Commander to Sickbay.
WORF: Aye, sir. Commander?

[Corridor]
RIKER: Your little toy worked. Thanks.
WORF: I'm glad it did.
RIKER: You come from a very brave and unique people. I'm glad you're with us on the Enterprise.
WORF: Thank you, Commander, and welcome home.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42523.7. We are en route to newly established Starbase one seven three for port call. Crew rotation is scheduled, and we will be off-loading experiment modules.

[Data's quarters]
O'BRIEN: Hold it, that's my chair. My luck is always lousy unless I start on the dealer's right.
DATA: That would seem to be superstition.
O'BRIEN: Bitter experience has taught me it's a fundamental truth.
RIKER: Okay, the game is five card stud, nothing wild. Ante up.
DATA: This game is exceedingly simple. With only fifty two cards, twenty one of which I will see, and four other players, there are a limited number of winning combinations.
LAFORGE: There's more to this than just the cards, Data.
DATA: Of course. The bets will indicate of the relative strength of each hand.
O'BRIEN: Time to pluck a pigeon.
PULASKI: Five.
LAFORGE: I'm in.
DATA: I too.
RIKER: Call.
RIKER: A seven, and a six, and the ace.
DATA: I bet ten.
O'BRIEN: See that.
RIKER: Call.
PULASKI: Fold.
LAFORGE: Yeah, me too. I'm out.
DATA: I bet five.
O'BRIEN: Same.
RIKER: Your five. And five.
O'BRIEN: Too rich for me.
RIKER: No help.
DATA: I bet ten.
RIKER: Your ten and ten.
DATA: Is that what is known as a poker face?
RIKER: Are you playing or not?
DATA: I fold.
DATA: You had nothing!
LAFORGE: He bluffed you, Data.
DATA: It makes very little sense to bet when you cannot win.
RIKER: But I did win. I was betting that you wouldn't call.
DATA: How could you tell?
PULASKI: Instinct, Data, instinct. The game is seven card high/low with a buy on the last card. And just to make it more interesting, the man with the ax takes all.

[Starbase 173]
PICARD: My God. Phillipa Louvois. And back in uniform. It's been ten years, but seeing you again like this makes it seem like fifty. If we weren't around all these people, do you know what I would like to do?
PHILLIPA: Bust a chair across my teeth?
PICARD: After that.
PHILLIPA: Ain't love wonderful.
PICARD: So, what are you doing out here?
PHILLIPA: I am in charge of the Twenty third Sector JAG office. We're brand new. I have no staff but one terrified little Ensign. Hopefully we can make some good law out here.
PICARD: Anything is possible. So you came back to Starfleet.
PHILLIPA: Still the most exciting and worthwhile place to be.
PICARD: You had no reason to leave.
PHILLIPA: They forced me out.
PICARD: No. That was your own damn stubborn pride.
PHILLIPA: When I prosecuted you in the Stargazer court martial, I was doing my job.
PICARD: Oh, you did more than your job. You enjoyed it.
PHILLIPA: Not true! A court martial is standard procedure when a ship is lost. I was doing my duty as an officer of the Judge Advocate General.
PICARD: You always enjoyed the adversarial process more than arriving at the truth. Well, I hope you've learned a little wisdom along the way.
PHILLIPA: You know, I never thought I would say this, but it's good to see you again. It brings a sense of order and stability to my universe to know that you're still a pompous ass. And a damn sexy man.
NAKAMURA: Captain Picard?
PHILLIPA: Admiral.
NAKAMURA: Captain Louvois. You're acquainted with Captain Picard?
PHILLIPA: Oh, yes. We're old friends. Excuse me. Picard, call me. You can buy me dinner.
NAKAMURA: Captain, it's good to see you again.
PICARD: Admiral.
NAKAMURA: May I present Commander Bruce Maddox.
PICARD: Commander.
NAKAMURA: He has an interesting proposal for you, but that can wait for a while. I'm eager to see the Enterprise.
PICARD: Yes, sir. This way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Admiral on the Bridge.
PICARD: I was a little surprised at the decision to put a base in force so close to the Neutral Zone.
NAKAMURA: As you know, we've had disturbing news from both sides of the zone. We're here to respond when needed. And it won't hurt to have the Romulans know that we're nearby. Well, Captain, I want to thank you for this opportunity. For five hundred years every ship that has borne the name of the Enterprise has been a legend. This one is no different.
MADDOX: Admiral.
NAKAMURA: Oh yes, Captain. Commander Maddox is here to do some work on your android. Please take care of him.
MADDOX: How have you been, Data?
DATA: My condition does not alter with the passage of time, Commander.
PICARD: The two of you are acquainted?
MADDOX: Yes, I evaluated Data when it first applied to the Academy.
DATA: And was the sole member of the committee to oppose my entrance on the grounds that I was not a sentient being.
PICARD: What exactly will this work entail?
MADDOX: I am going to disassemble Data.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: All right, explain this procedure.
MADDOX: Ever since I first saw Data at the entrance evaluation at the Starfleet Academy, I've wanted to understand it. I became a student of the works of Doctor Noonien Soong, Data's creator, and I've tried to continue his work. I believe I am very close to the breakthrough that will enable me to duplicate Doctor Soong's work and replicate this. But as a first step I must disassemble and study it. Data is going to be my guide.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: It sounds intriguing.
RIKER: How will you proceed?
MADDOX: I will run a full diagnostic on Data, evaluating the condition of its current software. I will then dump its core memory into the starbase mainframe computer and begin a detailed analysis of its construction.
DATA: You've constructed a positronic brain?
MADDOX: Yes.
DATA: Have you determined how the electron resistance across the neural filaments is to be resolved?
MADDOX: Not precisely.
DATA: That would seem to be a necessary first step.
MADDOX: I am confident that I will find the answer once I examine the filament links in your anterior cortex.
DATA: But if the answer is not forthcoming, your model will not function.
MADDOX: I do not anticipate any problems.
RIKER: You seem a little vague on the specifics.
PICARD: What are the risks to Commander Data?
MADDOX: Negligible.
DATA: Captain, I believe his basic research lacks the specifics necessary to support an experiment of this magnitude.
PICARD: Commander Data is a valued member of my Bridge crew. Based on what I've heard, I cannot allow Commander Data to submit himself to this experiment.
MADDOX: I was afraid this might be your attitude, Captain. Here are Starfleet's transfer orders separating Commander Data from the Enterprise, and reassigning it to Starbase one seventy three under my command. Data, I will see you in my office tomorrow at zero nine hundred hours.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: You sent for me, sir?
PICARD: Data, please sit down. Well, we have a problem.
DATA: I find myself in complete agreement with that assessment of the situation, sir.
PICARD: Your service to this ship has been exemplary. I don't want to lose you.
DATA: I will not submit to the procedure, sir.
PICARD: Data, I understand your objections, but I have to consider Starfleet's interests. What if Commander Maddox is correct, there is a possibility that many more beings like yourself could be constructed.
DATA: Sir, Lieutenant La Forge's eyes are far superior to human biological eyes. True? Then why are not all human officers required to have their eyes replaced with cybernetic implants? I see. It is precisely because I am not human.
PICARD: That will be all, Mister Data.
PICARD: Computer, pull all relevant information with regard to Starfleet regulations on the transfer of officers.
COMPUTER: Working.

[JAG office]
PHILLIPA: My God, twice in as many days.
PICARD: I need your help.
PHILLIPA: An historic moment.
PICARD: I have been trying to make sense of this gobbledygook, but it's beyond me. The fact is, my android officer, Data, is being transferred compulsorily to be made part of a highly dangerous, ill-conceived experiment, and I want it stopped.
PHILLIPA: He can refuse to undergo the procedure, but we can't stop the transfer.
PICARD: Once this Maddox has got control of Data, anything could happen. I don't trust that man.
PHILLIPA: We agree to certain risks when we join Starfleet.
PICARD: Yes. Acceptable risks, justified risks, but I can't accept this. It's unjustified. It's unfair. He has rights.
PHILLIPA: All this passion over a machine?
PICARD: Don't start. This is important to me. Is there an option?
PHILLIPA: There is always an option. He can resign.
PICARD: I see.
PHILLIPA: So you came to me for help.
PICARD: Yes, I came to you. You're the JAG officer for this sector. I had no choice but to come to you.
PHILLIPA: Wait! I didn't mean it that way. I'm glad that you felt you could, well, come to me.
PICARD: The word trust just isn't in your vocabulary, is it. Good try, nine out of ten for effort.
PHILLIPA: I wish things were different.
PICARD: I wish I could believe that.

[Data's quarters]
MADDOX: 'When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes, I all alone beweep my outcast state'. Is it just words to you, or do you fathom the meaning?
DATA: Is it not customary to request permission before entering an individual's quarters?
MADDOX: I thought that we could talk this out, that I could try to persuade you. Your memories and knowledge will remain intact.
DATA: Reduced to the mere facts of the events. The substance, the flavor of the moment, could be lost. Take games of chance.
MADDOX: Games of chance?
DATA: Yes, I had read and absorbed every treatise and textbook on the subject, and felt myself well prepared for the experience. Yet, when I finally played poker, I discovered that the reality bore little resemblance to the rules.
MADDOX: And the point being?
DATA: That while I believe it is possible to download the information contained in the positronic brain, I do not think you have acquired the expertise necessary to preserve the essence of those experiences. There is an ineffable quality to memory which I do not believe can survive your procedure.
MADDOX: Ineffable quality. I had rather we had done this together, but one way or the other, we are doing it. You are under my command.
DATA: No, sir, I am not under your nor anyone else's command. I have resigned from Starfleet.
MADDOX: Resigned? You can't resign.
DATA: I regret the decision, but I must. I am the culmination of one man's dream. This is not ego or vanity, but when Doctor Soong created me he added to the substance of the universe. If by your experiments I am destroyed, something unique, something wonderful will be lost. I cannot permit that, I must protect his dream.
MADDOX: And so must I. But keep packing, because one way or the other, you will be reporting.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Bruce Maddox, having been thwarted by Data's abrupt resignation, is now seeking a legal remedy for his woes. Captain Louvois has requested my presence at those discussions.

[JAG office]
MADDOX: Your response is emotional and irrational.
PICARD: Irrational?
MADDOX: You are endowing Data with human characteristics because it looks human. But it is not. If it were a box on wheels I would not be facing this opposition.
PHILLIPA: Overt sentimentality is not one of Captain Picard's failings. Trust me, I know.
PICARD: I will tell you again. Data is a valued member of my crew. He is an outstanding Bridge officer.
MADDOX: If I am permitted to make this experiment, the horizons for human achievement become boundless. Consider, every ship in Starfleet with a Data on board. Utilizing its tremendous capabilities, acting as our hands and eyes in dangerous situations.
PHILLIPA: Look, you're preaching to the choir here. Why don't you get to the point?
MADDOX: Data must not be permitted to resign.
PICARD: Data is a Starfleet officer. He still has certain rights.
MADDOX: Rights! Rights! I'm sick to death of hearing about rights! What about my right not to have my life work subverted by blind ignorance?
PHILLIPA: We have rule of law in this Federation. You ca not simply seize people and experiment with them to prove your pet theories.
PICARD: Thank you.
MADDOX: Now you're doing it. Data is an extraordinary piece of engineering, but it is a machine. If you permit it to resign it will destroy years of work in robotics. Starfleet does not have to allow the resignation.
PICARD: Commander, who do you think you're working for? Starfleet is not an organization that ignores its own regulations when they become inconvenient. Whether you like it or not, Data does have rights.
MADDOX: Let me put it another way. Would you permit the computer of the Enterprise to refuse a refit?
PHILLIPA: That's an interesting point. But the Enterprise computer is property. Is Data?
MADDOX: Of course.
PHILLIPA: There may be law to support this position.
PICARD: Then find it. A ruling with such broad ranging implications must be supported. Phillipa, I hope you will use the same zeal that you did in the Stargazer court martial.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Data, you're supposed to rip the wrapping off.
DATA: With the application of a little care, Wes, the paper can be utilized again.
WESLEY: Data, you're missing the point.
DATA: The Dream of the Fire, by K'Ratak. Thank you, Worf.
WORF: It was in the hands of the Klingons that the novel attained its full stature.
PULASKI: I couldn't disagree more. We'll save that argument for another day.
DATA: Excuse me, please.
DATA: Is something wrong?
LAFORGE: Of course there is. You're going away.
DATA: No one regrets that necessity more than myself. You do understand my reasons?
LAFORGE: Sure, I understand. I just don't like your being forced out. It's not fair.
DATA: As Doctor Pulaski would at this juncture, no doubt, remind us, life is rarely fair.
LAFORGE: Sorry, that just doesn't make it any better.
DATA: I shall miss you, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Me too. Take care of yourself, Data.

[JAG office]
PHILLIPA: I have completed my research, based on the Acts of Cumberland passed in the early twenty first century. Data is the property of Starfleet. He cannot resign and he cannot refuse to cooperate with Commander Maddox.
PICARD: What if I challenge this ruling?
PHILLIPA: Then I shall be required to hold a hearing.
PICARD: Then I so challenge. Convene your hearing.
PHILLIPA: Captain, that would be exceedingly difficult. This is a new base. I have no staff.
PICARD: But surely, Captain, you have regulations to take care of such an eventuality.
PHILLIPA: There are. I can use serving officers as legal counsel. You as the senior officer would defend.
PICARD: Very good.
PHILLIPA: And the unenviable task of prosecuting this case would fall on you, Commander, as the next most senior officer of the defendant's ship.
RIKER: I can't. I won't. Data's my comrade. We have served together. I not only respect him, I consider him my friend.
PHILLIPA: When people of good conscience have an honest dispute, we must still sometimes resort to this kind of adversarial system.
RIKER: You just want me to prove that Data is a mere machine. I can't do that because I don't believe it. I happen to know better. So I'm neither qualified nor willing. You're going to have to find someone else.
PHILLIPA: Then I will rule summarily based upon my findings. Data is a toaster. Have him report to Commander Maddox immediately for experimental refit.
RIKER: I see. I have no choice but to agree.
PHILLIPA: Good. And I expect you to do your duty in that courtroom. If I find for one minute that you are not doing your best, I will end this then and there.
PICARD: You don't have to remind us of our duty. You just remember yours.
PHILLIPA: I have never forgotten it. Not then, and certainly not now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Data, Captain Louvois has issued a ruling. You are the property of Starfleet Command. You can not resign.
DATA: I see. From limitless options I am reduced to none, or rather one. I can only hope that Commander Maddox is more capable than it would appear.
PICARD: Data, you're not going to submit. We're going to fight this. I challenged the ruling. Captain Louvois will be compelled to hold a hearing. She may be overly attached to the letter of the law, but I suspect that she still understands its spirit. We will put to rest this question of your legal status once and for all. Now, I have been asked to represent you, but if there is some other officer with which you would feel more happy?
DATA: Captain, I have complete confidence in your ability to represent my interests.

[Computer room]
RIKER: Computer, identify Riker, William T. Access code theta alpha two seven three seven, blue, enable.
COMPUTER: Riker, William T, identified. Ready.
RIKER: Access all available technical schematics on Lieutenant Commander Data.
COMPUTER: Working.

[Courtroom]
PHILLIPA: This hearing, convened on stardate 42527.4, is to determine the legal status of the android known as Data. The office of the Judge Advocate General has rendered a finding of property, the defense has challenged. Commander Riker?
RIKER: Your honor, there is only one issue, and one relevant piece of evidence. I call Lieutenant Commander Data.
COMPUTER: Verify. Lieutenant Commander Data. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Starfleet Command Decoration for Valor and
RIKER: Your honor, we'll stipulate to all of this.
PICARD: Objection, Your Honor, I want this read. All of it.
PHILLIPA: Sustained.
COMPUTER: Valor and Gallantry, Medal of Honor with Clusters, Legion of Honor, the Star Cross.
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander.
RIKER: Commander, what are you?
DATA: An android.
RIKER: Which is?
DATA: Webster's Twenty Fourth Century Dictionary, Fifth Edition, defines an android as an automaton made to resemble a human being.
RIKER: Automaton. Made. By whom?
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Who built you, Commander?
DATA: Doctor Noonien Soong.
RIKER: And he was?
DATA: The foremost authority in cybernetics.
RIKER: More basic than that. What was he?
DATA: Human?
RIKER: Thank you. Commander, what is the capacity of your memory, and how fast can you access information?
DATA: I have an ultimate storage capacity of eight hundred quadrillion bits. My total linear computational speed has been rated at sixty trillion operations per second.
RIKER: Your Honor, I offer in evidence prosecution's exhibit A, a rod of par-steel. Tensile strength, forty kilobars. Commander, would you bend that?
PICARD: Objection. There are many life forms possessed of mega strength. These issues are not relevant to this hearing.
PHILLIPA: I'm afraid I can't agree, Captain. Proceed with you demonstration, Commander.
RIKER: Drawing on the log record of the construction of the prototype android Lore, also constructed by Noonien Soong, I request to be allowed to remove the Commander's hand for your inspection.
PICARD: Objection! It doesn't matter. Objection withdrawn.
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander.
RIKER: I'm sorry.
RIKER: The Commander is a physical representation of a dream, an idea conceived of by the mind of a man. It's purpose is to serve human needs and interests. It's a collection of neural nets and heuristic algorithms. Its responses dictated by an elaborate software program written by a man. Its hardware built by a man. And now. And now a man will shut it off.
RIKER: Pinocchio is broken. Its strings have been cut.
PICARD: I request a recess.
PHILLIPA: Granted.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Do you mean his argument was that good?
PICARD: Riker's presentation was devastating. He almost convinced me.
GUINAN: You've got the harder argument. By his own admission, Data is a machine.
PICARD: That's true.
GUINAN: You're worried about what's going to happen to him?
PICARD: I've had to send people on far more dangerous missions.
GUINAN: Then this should work out fine. Maddox could get lucky and create a whole army of Datas, all very valuable.
PICARD: Oh, yes. No doubt.
GUINAN: He's proved his value to you.
PICARD: In ways that I cannot even begin to calculate.
GUINAN: And now he's about to be ruled the property of Starfleet. That should increase his value.
PICARD: In what way?
GUINAN: Well, consider that in the history of many worlds there have always been disposable creatures. They do the dirty work. They do the work that no one else wants to do because it's too difficult, or to hazardous. And an army of Datas, all disposable, you don't have to think about their welfare, you don't think about how they feel. Whole generations of disposable people.
PICARD: You're talking about slavery.
GUINAN: I think that's a little harsh.
PICARD: I don't think that's a little harsh. I think that's the truth. But that's a truth we have obscured behind a comfortable, easy euphemism. Property. But that's not the issue at all, is it?

[Courtroom]
PICARD: Commander Riker has dramatically demonstrated to this court that Lieutenant Commander Data is a machine. Do we deny that? No. Because it is not relevant. We too are machines, just machines of a different type. Commander Riker has also reminded us that Lieutenant Commander Data was created by a human. Do we deny that? No. Again it is not relevant. Children are created from the building blocks of their parents' DNA. Are they property? I call Lieutenant Commander Data to the stand.
PICARD: What are these?
DATA: My medals.
PICARD: Why do you pack them? What logical purpose do they serve?
DATA: I do not know, sir. I suppose none. I just wanted them. Is that vanity?
PICARD: And this?
DATA: A gift from you, sir.
PICARD: You value it?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Why?
DATA: It is a reminder of friendship and service.
PICARD: And this? You have no other portraits of your fellow crew members. Why this person?
DATA: I would prefer not to answer that question, sir. I gave my word.
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I don't think Tasha would mind.
DATA: She was special to me, sir. We were intimate.
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I have no further questions for this witness.
PHILLIPA: Commander Riker, do you want to cross?
RIKER: I have no questions, Your Honor.
PHILLIPA: Thank you. You may step down.
PICARD: I call to the stand Commander Bruce Maddox as a hostile witness.
COMPUTER: Verify, Maddox, Bruce, Commander. Current assignment, Associate Chair of Robotics, Daystrom Technological Institute. Major papers
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. Suffice it to say, he's an expert. Commander, is your contention that Lieutenant Commander Data is not a sentient being and therefore not entitled to all the rights reserved for all life forms within this Federation?
MADDOX: Data is not sentient, no.
PICARD: Commander, would you enlighten us? What is required for sentience?
MADDOX: Intelligence, self awareness, consciousness.
PICARD: Prove to the court that I am sentient.
MADDOX: This is absurd! We all know you're sentient.
PICARD: So I am sentient, but Data is not?
MADDOX: That's right.
PICARD: Why? Why am I sentient?
MADDOX: Well, you are self aware.
PICARD: Ah, that's the second of your criteria. Let's deal with the first, intelligence. Is Commander Data intelligent?
MADDOX: Yes. It has the ability to learn and understand, and to cope with new situations.
PICARD: Like this hearing.
MADDOX: Yes.
PICARD: What about self awareness. What does that mean? Why am I self aware?
MADDOX: Because you are conscious of your existence and actions. You are aware of yourself and your own ego.
PICARD: Commander Data, what are you doing now?
DATA: I am taking part in a legal hearing to determine my rights and status. Am I a person or property?
PICARD: And what's at stake?
DATA: My right to choose. Perhaps my very life.
PICARD: My rights. My status. My right to choose. My life. It seems reasonably self aware to me. Commander? I'm waiting.
MADDOX: This is exceedingly difficult.
PICARD: Do you like Commander Data?
MADDOX: I don't know it well enough to like or dislike it.
PICARD: But you admire him?
MADDOX: Oh yes, it's an extraordinary piece of
PICARD: Engineering and programming. Yes, you have said that. Commander, you have devoted your life to the study of cybernetics in general?
MADDOX: Yes.
PICARD: And Commander Data in particular?
MADDOX: Yes.
PICARD: And now you propose to dismantle him.
MADDOX: So that I can learn from it and construct more.
PICARD: How many more?
MADDOX: As many as are needed. Hundreds, thousands if necessary. There is no limit.
PICARD: A single Data, and forgive me, Commander, is a curiosity. A wonder, even. But thousands of Datas. Isn't that becoming a race? And won't we be judged by how we treat that race? Now, tell me, Commander, what is Data?
MADDOX: I don't understand.
PICARD: What is he?
MADDOX: A machine!
PICARD: Is he? Are you sure?
MADDOX: Yes!
PICARD: You see, he's met two of your three criteria for sentience, so what if he meets the third. Consciousness in even the smallest degree. What is he then? I don't know. Do you? Do you? Do you? Well, that's the question you have to answer. Your Honor, the courtroom is a crucible. In it we burn away irrelevancies until we are left with a pure product, the truth for all time. Now, sooner or later, this man or others like him will succeed in replicating Commander Data. And the decision you reach here today will determine how we will regard this creation of our genius. It will reveal the kind of a people we are, what he is destined to be. It will reach far beyond this courtroom and this one android. It could significantly redefine the boundaries of personal liberty and freedom, expanding them for some, savagely curtailing them for others. Are you prepared to condemn him and all who come after him to servitude and slavery? Your Honor, Starfleet was founded to seek out new life. Well, there it sits. Waiting. You wanted a chance to make law. Well, here it is. Make a good one.
PHILLIPA: It sits there looking at me, and I don't know what it is. This case has dealt with metaphysics, with questions best left to saints and philosophers. I'm neither competent nor qualified to answer those. I've got to make a ruling, to try to speak to the future. Is Data a machine? Yes. Is he the property of Starfleet? No. We have all been dancing around the basic issue. Does Data have a soul? I don't know that he has. I don't know that I have. But I have got to give him the freedom to explore that question himself. It is the ruling of this court that Lieutenant Commander Data has the freedom to choose.
DATA: I formally refuse to undergo your procedure.
MADDOX: I will cancel that transfer order.
DATA: Thank you. And, Commander, continue your work. When you are ready, I will still be here. I find some of what you propose intriguing.
MADDOX: He's remarkable.
PHILLIPA: You didn't call him it.
PHILLIPA: You see? Sometimes it does work.
PICARD: Phillipa. Dinner?
PHILLIPA: You buying?

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Sir, there is a celebration on the Holodeck.
RIKER: I have no right to be there.
DATA: Because you failed in your task?
RIKER: No, God, no. I came that close to winning, Data.
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: I almost cost you your life!
DATA: Is it not true that had you refused to prosecute, Captain Louvois would have ruled summarily against me?
RIKER: Yes.
DATA: That action injured you, and saved me. I will not forget it.
RIKER: You're a wise man, my friend.
DATA: Not yet, sir. But with your help, I am learning.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, we are approaching Klavdia Three.
PICARD: Take us to impulse power.
GIBSON: Aye, sir. Impulse power.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is Engineering.
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Now that we're out of warp, I'd like to use this time to make some routine adjustments on the deuterium control conduit. We're overdue.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How much time will these adjustments require, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE (voiceover): A couple of hours, sir.
RIKER: Proceed, Lieutenant La Forge. Standard orbit, Ensign.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Wes, I'm going to need an SCM model three, from ship's stores. Can you handle that?
WESLEY: Right away.
LAFORGE: All right.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Magnify, Mister Worf. Hardly an inviting planet, even for a research establishment.
TROI: I would have thought the inhabitants of Daled Four would send a future leader to a more hospitable environment.
WORF: For some, security is more important than comfort.
TROI: Yes, but sixteen years.
WORF: Captain, we're being hailed.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies, Mister Worf.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard of the USS Enterprise.
ANYA (voiceover): I am Anya of
DATA: Sir, the planet's troposphere is distorting our signal.
PICARD: Can you clean that up, Mister Worf?
WORF: I'll try. Now.
PICARD: This is Picard of the Enterprise. Please will you repeat your message?
ANYA (voiceover): I am Anya. Have you come for Salia of Daled Four?
PICARD: That is correct.
ANYA (voiceover): What species are you?
PICARD: Human.
ANYA (voiceover): Excellent. Bring us aboard. That is all.
RIKER: Friendly, isn't she?
PICARD: Friendly or not, Salia has the rank of head of state, so we will treat her and Anya accordingly. Number One, Mister Worf, let's go greet our visitors. You have the Bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise. I'm Captain Picard.
ANYA: This is Salia of Daled Four.
SALIA: I didn't feel a thing. Is that normal when one is transported, Captain?
PICARD: Oh, yes, it is.
SALIA: Those must be the matter energy conversion controls. May I take a look?
PICARD: Yes, of course.
RIKER: I can arrange for a tour of the ship, if you'd like.
SALIA: Oh, I'd love that.
ANYA: No, that will not be necessary. Just show us to our quarters, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Very well.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We're accommodating you in quarters normally reserved for Starfleet admiralty. I'm sure you'll find them quite comfortable.
SALIA: That's a superconducting magnet, isn't it?
WESLEY: Yes It's an SCM model. How did you know that?
SALIA: Study, for the last sixteen years it is all I could
ANYA: Please, Salia, walk ahead with me.
SALIA: Better be careful. Those can rip the iron right out of your blood cells.
WESLEY: Commander, who is she?
RIKER: I think she's a governess.
WESLEY: No! The girl.
RIKER: I don't know if she'll have time for you, Wes. She's destined to rule an entire world.

[Wesley's quarters]
WESLEY: Come in.
DATA: You wanted to see me?
WESLEY: Yes. Data, the girl who came on board.
DATA: Salia of Daled Four.
WESLEY: Who is she?
DATA: Little is known. She was born on Daled Four. Her parents were from opposite sides in a civil war which has lasted for centuries. They both died shortly after her birth. A Federation ship brought her and her governess to Klavdia Three so that she could be raised in a neutral environment.
WESLEY: And now she's returning?
DATA: It is hoped she will unite the factions and bring peace.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Ensign Crusher, report. Are you all right?
WESLEY: Geordi? Yeah, I'm fine. I just
LAFORGE (voiceover): Wes, we're waiting for that magnet.
WESLEY: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, we've broken orbit and laid in a course for Daled Four. We will remain on impulse power until Lieutenant La Forge completes his adjustments.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have our passenger's accommodations met with their approval?
WORF: I doubt if anything ever meets with that woman's approval, sir.
TROI: Captain, I'm concerned our new passengers. Their emotions do not fit who they are and what they're doing.
PICARD: Are you suggesting they're not who they say they are?
TROI: Actually no, it's more like they're not what they say they are.
PICARD: Picard to Salia's quarters.
SALIA (voiceover): Yes?
PICARD: May we turn on the viewer?
SALIA (voiceover): Yes, of course.
PICARD: Are your quarters satisfactory?
SALIA (screen): Yes, very. Tell me, Captain, who was the young man I met before?

[Salia's quarters]
PICARD (screen): That was Ensign Wesley Crusher.
SALIA: Thank you for checking on us, Captain. I only hope our quarters on Daled Four will be this luxurious.
PICARD (screen): Please feel free to contact me at any time. Picard out.

[Bridge]
TROI: What I sensed before hasn't changed.
DATA: What puzzles me, Captain, is how she is expected to bring peace to Daled Four. Its inhabitants have been fighting throughout their recorded history.
PICARD: What do we know about the cause of these wars?
DATA: Only that it is the difference between night and day.
RIKER: Data, you used a colloquialism.
DATA: Did I? What I meant, sir, is that Daled Four rotates only once per revolution. Therefore one side is constantly dark, and the other side constantly light. One might surmise that the two hemispheres have developed disparate cultures, which is a major cause of most wars.
PICARD: This child is supposed to bring them together.
RIKER: She seems too delicate for such a task.
WORF: Do not be fooled by her looks. The body is just a shell.

[Salia's quarters]
SALIA: How can I be a leader if I don't know anything about my people?
GIRL: You will lead because you are accepted by both sides. And because it is in your blood.
SALIA: What is expected of me once I'm there?
GIRL: You will know.
SALIA: How?
GIRL: You just will. Salia, you must arrive with an open mind, without preconceived ideas of the worlds you will find or the people on either side.
SALIA: It's very frustrating.
GIRL: You feel the weight of so much responsibility, you're not sure you'll live up to everyone's expectations.
SALIA: It's not only that. Nobody's even asked me if this is something I want.
GIRL: It is your duty.
SALIA: And I have no choice.
GIRL: It won't be as bad as you think. In fact, it could be quite wonderful. Besides, you are the last and only chance.
SALIA: Don't you think I'm going to need more than instinct to do whatever is expected of me on Daled Four?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Energy depletion level?
COMPUTER: Point oh four percent and increasing.
LAFORGE: Wesley? Wesley, you haven't found that defocused area yet?
WESLEY: I'm looking.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I see the way you're looking. Wesley!
WESLEY: What? Sorry. I've got my mind on something.
LAFORGE: I can see that.
WESLEY: It's this girl they beamed up, Geordi. She's perfect. Absolutely perfect.
LAFORGE: Now I understand why you can't concentrate.
WESLEY: I'll do better.
LAFORGE: Okay.
COMPUTER: Warning, resonant field applied.
LAFORGE: What is it? What happened?
WESLEY: Nothing. I had it on the wrong setting.
LAFORGE: I suppose it had to happen to you. It usually does at about this age.
WESLEY: What usually does?
LAFORGE: Glands erupting with hormones. It happens to all of us.
WESLEY: Just because I said that I think she's interesting
LAFORGE: You said she was perfect. Come on down. You're no use around here for now. Come on down. Go talk to her. Use the ladder.
WESLEY: That's silly, Geordi. But since you recommended it, how should I approach her? If she'll talk to me, what should I say?
LAFORGE: Just say, 'Hi, I'm Wesley Crusher. I'd like to talk to you'.
WESLEY: And then what?
LAFORGE: Whatever occurs to you.
WESLEY: What if nothing occurs to me?
LAFORGE: Look, Wes, I don't have time for this. You're going to have to ask somebody else.
WESLEY: Okay.

[Bridge]
WORF: That is how the Klingon lures a mate.
WESLEY: Are you telling me to go yell at Salia?
WORF: No. Men do not roar. Women roar. Then they hurl heavy objects. And claw at you.
WESLEY: What does the man do?
WORF: He reads love poetry. He ducks a lot.
WESLEY: Worf, sounds like it works great for the Klingons, but I think I need to try something a little less dangerous.
WORF: Then go to her door. Beg like a human.
DATA: It should be that simple, Wesley. Judging by her appearance it is likely you and Salia are biologically compatible. Of course, there could be a difference in the histocompatibility complex in the cell membrane, but.
WESLEY: Data, I want to meet her, not dissect her.
PICARD: Picard to Salia's quarters.
SALIA (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: May I activate the viewer?

[Salia's quarters]
SALIA: Hurry, go, go.
SALIA: Certainly.
PICARD: We've invited Anya to take a tour of the ship. Maybe you would like to join her?
SALIA: Very much.
PICARD: Your escort will with you shortly. Picard out.
SALIA: I think I'll go on the tour.
SALIA: Why can't I? This is the only chance I'll ever have to see a vessel like this.
ANYA: No. You must remain here where it is safe. Salia, do an old woman a favor and obey me for the rest of this trip.
SALIA: You are no more an old woman than I am a leader.
SALIA: Yes. Come in.
WORF: I'm here to escort you on a tour of the Enterprise.
ANYA: Salia will remain behind. I will be right there. You are a leader. And I am older than you could ever imagine.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: What should I say? How do I act? What do I do?
RIKER: Guinan, I need your help. Could you step over here a minute?
GUINAN: Sounds simple enough.
RIKER: Now, the first words out of your mouth are the most important. You may want to start with something like this. You are the most beautiful woman in the galaxy. But that might not work.
GUINAN: Yes. Yes, it would.
RIKER: You don't know how long I've longed to tell you that.
GUINAN: But you were afraid?
RIKER: Yes.
GUINAN: Of me?
RIKER: Of us. Of what we might become.
WESLEY: Commander?
RIKER: or that you might think that was a line.
GUINAN: Maybe I do think it's a line.
RIKER: Then you think I'm not sincere?
GUINAN: I didn't say that. There's nothing wrong with a line. It's like a knock at the door.
RIKER: Then you're inviting me in?
GUINAN: I'm not sending you away.
RIKER: That's more than I expected.
GUINAN: Is it as much as you hoped?
RIKER: To hope is to recognize the possibility. I had only dreams.
GUINAN: Dreams can be dangerous.
RIKER: Not these dreams. I dream of a galaxy where your eyes are stars, and the universe worships the night.
GUINAN: Careful. Putting me on a pedestal so high, you may not be able to reach me.
RIKER: Then I'll learn how to fly. You are the heart in my day and the soul in my night.
WESLEY: I don't think this is my style.
GUINAN: Shut up, kid. Tell me more about my eyes.

[Engineering]
WORF: This is the dilithium crystal chamber. Our Chief Engineer, Geordi La Forge.
ANYA: What is that? What are you doing?
LAFORGE: Nothing to be concerned about. Just performing some routine adjustments.
ANYA: I wasn't aware that the deuterium control conduit required routine adjustments.
LAFORGE: I perform periodic inspections on all engineering systems.
ANYA: In this case you seem to have found a malfunction.
LAFORGE: It's not a malfunction. It's simply that a minute defocused area has developed. It lowers our operating efficiency.
ANYA: It could also lead to excess prion production.
LAFORGE: Our computer would detect that.
ANYA: Unless, of course, it too is malfunctioning.
LAFORGE: Look, I really have to get this finished.
WORF: Anya. Please come with me.
ANYA: I will be back to check your progress.

[Corridor]
GUARD: Ensign Crusher, what can I do for you?
WESLEY: Nothing.
GUARD: Is there a problem?
WESLEY: No.
SALIA: Could you show me how to work the food dispenser?
WESLEY: Sure.

[Salia's quarters]
WESLEY: Really, it's quite simple. You just tell the computer what you want and it prepares it for you.
SALIA: Oh. What should I order?
WESLEY: I don't know. what do you like?
SALIA: I'd like something sweet.
WESLEY: I know. Computer, Thalian chocolate mousse.
SALIA: It's a wonderful sensation.
WESLEY: On Thalos Seven they age the beans four hundred years.
SALIA: You've been there?
WESLEY: It's one of my favorite places.
SALIA: It must be fun to visit a planet like that.
WESLEY: It's the best part of being on the Enterprise.
SALIA: I've studied about some of them, but to see them, that would be wonderful. Tell me about some of the other places you've been.
WESLEY: Oh, there's too many.
SALIA: The only world I've known is Klavdia Three.
WESLEY: It's about time we changed that.
SALIA: How?
WESLEY: Come with me.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: I'll be with you in a moment.
ANYA: What's wrong with him?
PULASKI: Andronesian encephalitis.
ANYA: That disease is contagious.
PULASKI: Very unlikely. Our air filtering system can handle
ANYA: But there is a chance.
PULASKI: If you mean mathematically, yes, the probability is not zero.
ANYA: I cannot rely on your primitive technologies. Kill the patient!
PULASKI: What?
ANYA: Destroy the patient. Immediately!
PULASKI: Now, you calm down.
ANYA: If you won't take action, then I will!
PULASKI: Security to Sickbay! Hurry!
PICARD: Wait! Hold your fire.
PICARD: Worf!
PULASKI: What is she? Keep her away!
ANYA: Do not interfere!
PULASKI: She wants to kill Hennesey!
ANYA: His disease threatens Salia.
PULASKI: Captain, there is no chance of contagion.
PICARD: The situation is under control.
ANYA: That's not good enough!
PICARD: Well, it will have to be.
ANYA: Your powers are infinitesimal compared to mine.
PICARD: Yes, that may be, but you will obey my orders. You are to remain in your quarters and in your present form for the rest of this voyage. Is that clear?
ANYA: Very.
PICARD: Keep her under guard.
WORF: Aye, sir.
WORF: Wait for me. What kind of creature is she?
PICARD: I've never seen anything like her.
PULASKI: There is mention in the galactic zoological catalog of a species called allasomorph, which is supposed to possess the power to alter their molecular structure into other life forms.
WORF: Such a creature would make a perfect protector.
PICARD: I want a Security team stationed outside Sickbay, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir. Captain, what if Anya transforms?
PICARD: Improvise.

[Holodeck]
SALIA: Can a place so remarkable truly exist?
WESLEY: Yes. There are many more. All of them are different.
SALIA: I've learned about them. That's all I did on Klavdia Three, was learn. I know so much, but I've seen so little.
WESLEY: Think of what you have to look forward to. This is a great time to be alive.
SALIA: For you.
WESLEY: For both of us. This is all just beginning. We've only charted nineteen percent of our galaxy. The rest is out there, just waiting. Look what we've already discovered.
SALIA: I have never seen anything so wondrous.
WESLEY: Wait. Computer, Rosseau Five.
SALIA: It's breathtaking!
WESLEY: Yes.
SALIA: And you've been to this place?
WESLEY: Someday, you'll visit Rosseau Five, and many other places, all more spectacular.
SALIA: If only it were possible.
WESLEY: Listen.
SALIA: What is it?
WESLEY: In a moment, the harmonic resonance from the neutrino clouds will become synchronous.
SALIA: It's so beautiful! It's like this place has a voice and is trying to speak to us. Thank you for sharing all of this with me.
WESLEY: Someday, you'll see it all for yourself. Look over there.

[Corridor]
WORF: Remain here. You are restricted to these quarters for the remainder of this voyage.
ANYA: You are the protector of this ship, are you not?
WORF: I am in charge of Security.
ANYA: You must understand my duties as well. If you confine me to this cell, I cannot protect Salia.
WORF: There is no need for concern. She is safe on this ship.
ANYA: You must understand that I cannot make such an assumption.
WORF: You no longer have the choice. You have to trust me to protect her.
ANYA: No. A true protector cannot have two charges. Your responsibility is to the ship. My duty is to Salia.
WORF: My responsibility to the ship includes protecting Salia.
ANYA: You know I'm stronger than you.
WORF: I was unprepared.
ANYA: You underestimated me in your Sickbay. That is usually fatal.
WORF: Still, you are here, confined to your room.
ANYA: I ceased my struggle by choice, not because of you or your Captain.
WORF: I would have stopped you. If not me, someone else.
ANYA: No, you cannot control me.
WORF: We will see.

[Ready room]
PICARD: We've obviously brought a very dangerous life form aboard this ship. I want to minimize the chances of any incident.
TROI: Whatever kind of life form Anya is, emotionally she's Salia's mother.
PICARD: The most dangerous animal is a mother protecting her young.
TROI: Exactly.
ANYA (voiceover): Captain, this is Anya.
PICARD: Yes?
ANYA (voiceover): Salia is gone. Where is she?

[Ten forward]
SALIA: This has all been so wonderful. I'm not even sure it's real.
WESLEY: Believe me, Ten Forward isn't an illusion.
SALIA: Not that. I mean the way I feel.
GUINAN: You won't find a better dish of chocolate anywhere.
SALIA: I'm sure I won't.
WESLEY: Is something wrong?
SALIA: I've had a great time being with you, Wesley.
WESLEY: And that makes you sad?
SALIA: When I was on Klavdia Three, all I could think of was leaving that isolation. What makes me sad is having to face it again after seeing what else is possible.
WESLEY: Is that what awaits you on Daled Four? Isolation?
SALIA: Yes.
WESLEY: I thought you were going there to reunite two warring parties.
SALIA: What else do you know?
WESLEY: Very little. The ship's computer doesn't have that much on Daled Four. How will you stop the fighting?
SALIA: I'm not certain. I only know I will have many responsibilities when I get there. Your language has no word for the position I'll hold. In many ways I'll have even less freedom than I did on Klavdia Three.
WESLEY: You could stay.
SALIA: On the Enterprise?
WESLEY: Why not?
SALIA: Because I can't.
GUINAN: Just because a girl runs out, doesn't mean she doesn't wish you to follow.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: What is it? What happened? Salia!
SALIA: Stay away from me! I'm sorry.
WESLEY: I don't understand.
SALIA: I can't stay here! I can't have this life! I want it more than anything, but I can't have it!
WESLEY: Salia, nothing is impossible.
SALIA: Not for you.
WESLEY: There's a way. I know there is!
ANYA: Leave her alone!
PICARD: Ensign, step away from her.
ANYA: Come with me.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Energy depletion level?
COMPUTER: Zero.
LAFORGE: La Forge to bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: I've just completed my final adjustments. Thanks for the time. You now have warp engines available.
PICARD (voiceover): Very good.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, get us to Daled as quickly as possible.
RIKER: Ensign Gibson, take us to warp eight point eight.
GIBSON: Warp eight point eight, sir.
RIKER: Estimated time?
GIBSON: Three hours, nine minutes.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher, when you're finished with your duties in Engineering, report to my Ready Room.
WESLEY (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The woman, Anya, is not what she appears to be. She is an allasomorph.
WESLEY: A shape shifter?
PICARD: Yes. She's not only a governess, she's also the girl's protector. Now, I don't care to interfere in the personal relationships of those under my command, but in this case.
WESLEY: You want me to stay away from Salia?
PICARD: Yes, I do. For the good of the ship and the safety of everyone on board.
WESLEY: I will do as you ask.

[Salia's quarters]
SALIA: Why won't you let me have a friend?
ANYA: It is my duty to protect you from danger.
SALIA: There's no danger here.
ANYA: There is always danger from one who is not your kind. Salia, he's confusing you. You're forgetting you responsibilities.
SALIA: Whether or not I see Wesley is for me to decide.
ANYA: It is not! I raised you, I protected you and I intend to deliver you to Daled Four!
SALIA: Maybe what you want doesn't matter any more.
ANYA: Salia, please. I know it's difficult for you. But you must do what you are destined to do.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Standard orbit.
GIBSON: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies, Mister Worf.
WORF: Captain, I am encountering the same interference we experienced on Klavdia Three.
DATA: The troposphere appears to be distorting our signals. It is fascinating, Captain. Klavdia Three and Daled Four have almost identical atmospheres.
PICARD: Magnify. Times twenty.
RIKER: How could anyone exist in an environment so totally hostile toward human life?
PICARD: Mister Data, do whatever is necessary to override the interference. Let's complete our mission.

[Wesley's quarters]
WESLEY: Come in. Salia! You shouldn't have come.
SALIA: Do you want me to leave?
WESLEY: I didn't say that.
SALIA: Then you want me to stay.
WESLEY: Does Anya know you're here?
SALIA: That doesn't matter.
WESLEY: I'm glad you came. I thought Anya would have kept you with her.
SALIA: I have certain rights.
WESLEY: So in other words, you slipped out.
SALIA: While she was asleep. I hope you didn't get in trouble from your Captain.
WESLEY: Oh, I haven't got in trouble yet.
SALIA: Anya thought you would corrupt me.
WESLEY: With my wild way of life?
SALIA: Maybe. With the normal things people do when they like each other.
SALIA: Wesley, get out of here now.
WESLEY: What's going on?
SALIA: Just go, please.
WESLEY: Security, crew quarters!
SALIA: No! Anya, No!
ANYA: You should not have disobeyed me.
SALIA: I had to.
ANYA: I warned you to leave her alone.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42568.8. Since Anya's powers of transformation apparently gave her the ability to escape her guards unnoticed, we have sealed her quarters with a forcefield that will contain her no matter how small a form she may take.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I'm receiving an audio signal.
PICARD: Audio on.
VOICE (voiceover): Come in Enterprise. This is Command Headquarters of Daled Four. We have been expecting you.
DATA: Sir, sensors indicate the communication originated from a terawatt source on the planet.
RIKER: That's more power than our entire ship can generate.
DATA: It is what is needed to penetrate the atmosphere.
RIKER: Which means we lack the ability to respond, sir.
WORF: Sir, there are beam-down coordinates encoded within the carrier signal.
PICARD: Splendid.
RIKER: I'll arrange for our guests to beam down.

[Corridor]
WORF: Forcefield off.

[Salia's quarters]
SALIA: Come in.
WORF: We have arrived.
ANYA: Salia will be with you in just a moment.
SALIA: You're not going?
ANYA: No. My duties have been completed. I have done all that I could. I hope it was enough.
SALIA: You've raised me well, and I thank you for that.
ANYA: I would not have harmed the boy, I only wanted to frighten him.
SALIA: I know.
ANYA: You are ready for what awaits you and you will do well. I know that I have been hard on you, but I wanted to prepare you for anything you might be required to do.
SALIA: Will I ever be able to leave Daled Four?
ANYA: Probably not. But anything is possible.
SALIA: That's what Wes said.
ANYA: I hope he's right.
SALIA: Where will you go?
ANYA: The third moon is within range of this ship's transporter, I shall go there. It was my home before we went away.
SALIA: I'm going to miss you.
ANYA: I know.
SALIA: I am ready now.
WORF: I will escort you to transporter room six.
ANYA: You will be happy to see me leave.
WORF: No. You are a worthy opponent.
ANYA: Thank you. At heart, we are very much alike.
WORF: Yes, we are.
ANYA: Perhaps we shall fight again. On the same side.
WORF: It would be an honor. Shall we go?

[Wesley's quarters]
WESLEY: Come in.
SALIA: Wesley, I have to go now.
WESLEY: Was it fun?
SALIA: What do you mean?
WESLEY: Playing humanoid. Was it fun?
SALIA: Wesley, look at me. Right now, this minute, this is what I am. A humanoid girl.
WESLEY: What are you really?
SALIA: Does it matter?
WESLEY: Yes.
SALIA: Our natural state is one unlike anything you can imagine.
WESLEY: So you took this form for our benefit? That's why you wanted to know what species we are.
SALIA: I'm sorry I hurt you. I didn't mean to.
WESLEY: I loved you.
SALIA: I love you, too.
WESLEY: Can you?
SALIA: Yes, oh yes. I have the same feelings, the same emotions as you. You must believe me.
WESLEY: Please go.
SALIA: Wesley, let's not say goodbye like this.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Prepare to beam Salia to the specified coordinates.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
SALIA: Our world is grateful for the courtesy which you have extended us.
RIKER: I hope some day that the Federation and Daled Four will have formal contact.
SALIA: That is my wish as well.
O'BRIEN: Coordinates have been input, sir.
RIKER: Proceed.
WESLEY: Wait. A taste to remember me by.
SALIA: I wish there were something I could give you.
WESLEY: You already have.
SALIA: I'm glad you came to say goodbye. Thank you, for everything.
SALIA: I want you to leave now.
WESLEY: Why?
SALIA: I cannot arrive on my planet in this form, and I want you to remember me as I am now.
WESLEY: Don't' worry, I will.
WESLEY: Energize.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Seeing her on the transporter pad, it was like seeing pure light. I miss her. I feel empty.
GUINAN: I know that sensation. But there'll come a time when all you remember is the love.
WESLEY: I'm never going to feel this way about anyone else.
GUINAN: You're right.
WESLEY: I didn't expect you to say that.
GUINAN: There'll be others, but every time you feel love it'll will be different. Every time, it's different.
WESLEY: Knowing that doesn't make it any easier.
GUINAN: It's not supposed to.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42609.1. In response to a desperate plea for aid by my old friend, Captain Donald Varley of the USS Yamato, I am running a grave risk by taking the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone. Varley's request was prompted by dangerous malfunctions which have been plaguing our sister ship. Perhaps with both crews working together we can able to eliminate the problems before our presence is detected by the Romulans.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How long to rendezvous, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Four minutes and thirty three seconds, sir.
PICARD: Status of download, Mister Data?
DATA: The Yamato log should be in our computer by rendezvous, sir.
RIKER: Have you nailed down our little hiccup yet?
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: The odd reading?
DATA: No, sir. It might be due to problems currently being experienced by the Yamato.
PICARD: Trouble, Number One?
RIKER: I'm not sure, sir. Are we alone out here, Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir. There are no other vessels in the area except the Yamato, which is coming into visual range now.
PICARD: At last.
WORF: Transmission from the Yamato, sir.
PICARD: On viewer.
PICARD: Donald, what's a nice Starfleet Captain like you doing in a place like this?
VARLEY (screen): It's good to see you again, Jean-Luc, despite your antique humor. I only hope your people are able to help us. Malfunctions are becoming serious. We lost an engineering team when the computer shut down a forcefield in an open shuttlebay. Eighteen people.
RIKER: Do you have any idea what caused this, sir?
VARLEY (screen): None. They are affecting every system simultaneously. It's like the ship has suddenly decided to fall apart. It's beginning to make me think we should have run these Galaxy Class ships across a few more drawing boards before we built one.
PICARD: You believe it's a design flaw?
VARLEY (screen): I don't know. I'm grasping at straws here. All I know is we've got to get it fixed, and before I lose more than an engineering team.
RIKER: Do you wish to evacuate any non-essential personnel to the Enterprise, sir?
VARLEY (screen): No. No, that would be premature.
PICARD: Donald, we'll get our teams to work on it immediately. I'm sure neither of us feels too comfortable sitting around in the Neutral Zone.
VARLEY (screen): I know what you're thinking, what the hell am I doing here? Well, I had heard rumors about a couple of archeological digs that started making the Iconians sound a lot less like legend. I did a little investigating, and I located their homeworld.
PICARD: In the Neutral Zone?
VARLEY (screen): In the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Donald, that was quite a risk to run to satisfy archeological curiosity.
VARLEY (screen): The risk would be in allowing the Romulans to locate Iconia. Fortunately, I got there first. It's a virtually dead planet, but enough technology remains to give the Romulans an edge if they should find it.
PICARD: Donald, your transmission is breaking up. Mister Data, try and clean that up.
WORF: Sir, there is an energy build-up in the Yamato's Engineering section.
PICARD: Yamato, this is the Enterprise. Yamato, come in.
WORF: Captain, magnetic seals in the antimatter chamber are decaying!
PICARD: Captain! Donald, come in!
PICARD: Shields up.
WORF: Sir!
DATA: Sensors indicate no life readings, sir.
WORF: Captain. Another vessel is coming within sensor range. It is Romulan.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Yamato's entire crew and their families, more than a thousand people, have been lost. Circumstances unfortunately permit us no pause for grief.

[Bridge]
WORF: No response from the Romulan vessel.
RIKER: Arm phasers and prepare to lock on target.
PICARD: Did they attack the Yamato?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
WORF: All their weapons systems have been fully activated. Still no response.
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
TARIS (screen): Captain Picard.
PICARD: Explain your illegal presence in the Neutral Zone.
TARIS (screen): Explain yours.
PICARD: Are you responsible for the destruction of the Yamato?
TARIS (screen): No. But believe me, Captain, had we chosen to exercise our right to defend the Neutral Zone, we would not have stopped with one starship. You will leave at once.
WORF: Mute.
PICARD: Comments.
TROI: She's extremely anxious.
WORF: Understandable if she just destroyed a Federation starship.
RIKER: Your scan was inconclusive. We don't know what happened to the Yamato.
TROI: Our presence in the Neutral Zone is provocative. It could force her to respond.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: We will comply when I have determined the cause of the destruction of the Yamato, and when I am fully satisfied that you were not responsible. Picard out.
WORF: They are engaging their cloaking device.
RIKER: Good. They can't fire when they're cloaked.
WORF: Unless they have overcome that deficiency. The Yamato was destroyed while they were cloaked.
PICARD: Enough. Answers. I want answers, not conjecture. Number One, I want them at a staff meeting in one hour.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Sensor recordings reveal that what we witnessed was an uncontrolled and catastrophic matter-antimatter mix. The magnetic seals between the chambers collapsed and
PICARD: Wait. Wait. That's not possible.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, it is, but a highly improbable series of events has to take place for such a result to occur.
PICARD: Explain.
LAFORGE: Okay. In the event of a breach of seal integrity there's an emergency release system which dumps the antimatter.
DATA: Apparently such a dump began, was then halted, and the containment seals were dropped. There was still sufficient antimatter present to lead to an explosion.
PICARD: And so there is no evidence that a weapon was used?
DATA: No, sir. None.
LAFORGE: However it happened, the Yamato did it to herself.
PICARD: Theorize. What could have caused such a catastrophic malfunction?
LAFORGE: I think Captain Varley may have been right. There may be a design flaw.
RIKER: In a Galaxy Class starship?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. It's the most sophisticated piece of machinery ever built. Something could have been overlooked.
PICARD: Knowing where the flaw is located, can you isolate the problem and solve it?
LAFORGE: We're already working on it, sir.
PICARD: Pull any personnel you can use.
TROI: If we have established that the Romulans were not responsible for the destruction of the Yamato, would it not be prudent to withdraw?
PICARD: If it is a design flaw, we're better to stay where we are and give Geordi time to work on it. Or what happened to the Yamato could happen to us.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Computer, access Captain Donald Varley's personal log. Search parameter. Locate entries containing words Romulan and or Iconia.
COMPUTER: Working.
VARLEY (screen): Personal log. It was kind of Doctor Ramsey to allow me to carry away my own little piece of legend from the archeological dig at Denius Three. My engineers have examined it, but are completely baffled by its technology. What was its purpose? I'm like a caveman confronted by a tricorder. I'm certain this device is Iconian, but how far had it traveled before it was abandoned on this alien world? Personal log. A galactic Rosetta stone. The starfields on the artifact were unintelligible until I took into account two hundred millennia of stellar drift. After that it was easy to pinpoint Iconia. My First Officer is questioning the wisdom of my order to violate the Neutral Zone, but I am convinced that I have taken the only proper course. Should this advanced technology fall into the hands of the Romulans, we might as well dock our ships and defend ourselves with sticks. Personal log. We've been spotted by a Romulan cruiser, but after playing hide and seek through several solar systems, I think I've managed to elude them. The Iconian probe scan. Was it an attempt at communication? If only I knew what we were dealing with here. Personal log. I'm unable to send an away team to the surface of Iconia, nor can I scan the energy source on the planet because of these maddening system failures. It's infuriating to be stopped at the threshold of a dream by one's own ship. We're leaving orbit to rendezvous with Picard. If his people can't help us repair the Yamato, I must convince him to continue this exploration. The future wellbeing of the Federation may well depend upon it.
COMPUTER: No further entries conforming to search parameters.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, there's a reference in Captain Varley's personal log to a probe that scanned the Yamato.
DATA: Aye, sir. We have a visual record.
PICARD: Put it on main viewer.
RIKER: What the devil is that?
PICARD: Have you seen anything like that before?
DATA: No, sir. It appears to be a scanner. Possibly a transmitter.
RIKER: Transmitting what?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: La Forge.
PICARD (voiceover): What progress on the matter-antimatter scan?
LAFORGE: Everything continues to check out. I'm starting an analysis on the magnetic coils.

[Bridge]
PICARD: When the Yamato was probed, where was she?
DATA: In orbit around a planet at coordinates two two seven mark three five nine, sir.
PICARD: ETA at warp factor eight?
DATA: Twelve hours sixteen minutes, sir.
WORF: Sir, that would put us substantially close to the Romulan side of the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: That can't be helped. Ensign, lay in a course. Warp factor eight.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: We're going to assume the Yamato's mission.
RIKER: And risk a war?
PICARD: Perhaps prevent one.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Sir, may I speak with you for a minute?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Well, what is it, Wesley?
WESLEY: It's about the Iconians, sir. I was told they were just a myth.
PICARD: China was thought to be only a myth until Marco Polo traveled there. No, the Iconians were certainly real. Sit down. We know that three systems within this sector had a number of cultural similarities. Similarities which could only be explained by there being a single unifying influence.
WESLEY: So they colonized those worlds?
PICARD: Probably conquered.
WESLEY: You mean they were warlike?
PICARD: Perhaps. Ancient texts did speak of 'Demons of Air and Darkness'.
WESLEY: Air and darkness?
PICARD: Legend has it that they traveled without the benefit of spaceships, merely appearing out of thin air on distant planets.
WESLEY: Sounds like magic.
PICARD: Well, we would appear magical to Stone Age people.
WESLEY: How did you find all this out?
PICARD: Archeology has been a hobby since Academy days. But why don't we talk about what really brought you here?
WESLEY: It's the Yamato, Captain. I can't stop thinking about her. All those people dead. I don't know how you and Commander Riker and Geordi, how you handle it so easily.
PICARD: Easily? Oh no, not easily. We handle it because we're trained to, as you will be. Tea, Earl Gray, hot. But if the time ever comes when the death of a single individual fails to move us
WESLEY: Didn't you order tea, sir?
PICARD: Now that should not have happened.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. As happened with our sister ship, the Enterprise is being to experience a series of system failures. So far they are random, but I fear they could be early symptoms of what happened to the Yamato.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Engineering.
LAFORGE: La Forge.
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are you making any progress toward solving our problems?
LAFORGE: Solving them, no sir, but I can eliminate one worry. It is not a design flaw.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've been reviewing the Yamato's log, and I think maybe that alien probe had something to do with her problems.
PICARD (voiceover): How?
LAFORGE: I need to see the thing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: If it was the probe, that explains the Yamato. But how do you account for the difficulties the Enterprise is experiencing?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't.
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant, Are our problems likely to attain the seriousness of those on the Yamato?
LAFORGE: If you're asking for speculation, I'd say yes, sir, they are. I need time.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, time is the one thing which we do not have in abundance.
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Scanning, sir.
PICARD: Well, Mister Data?
DATA: No life-form readings, sir.
WORF: All major cities have been heavily damaged, and the pattern of destruction is that consistent with large-scale orbital bombardment.
PICARD: How long ago?
DATA: Approximately two hundred thousand years, sir.
WORF: There is an energy source in the mountains of the smaller continent.
PICARD: Magnify.
RIKER: Is that Iconia?
PICARD: Captain Varley died believing that it was.
RIKER: Did you see that?
WORF: Captain. Projectile launched from the planet's surface.
DATA: Its size and composition match the probe which scanned the Yamato, sir.
PICARD: Shields up. Prepare a tractor beam. Mister La Forge, I'm going to assist you in your research. A probe has been launched from Iconia.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): I'm going to capture it.
LAFORGE: No, sir, wait! Captain! Captain!

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Coming through!

[Turbolift]
LAFORGE: Bridge!
LAFORGE: Emergency stop!
LAFORGE: Stop! Damn it!

[Bridge]
WORF: Tractor beam ready, sir.
RIKER: Geordi, are you all right?
LAFORGE: Destroy the probe, sir. Quickly!
PICARD: Worf, target phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire!
PICARD: Welcome to the Bridge, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. If that thing had managed to scan us, we never would have had any chance of saving the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That probe was a transmitter sending an alien computer program. The same program that is currently aboard the Enterprise trying to rewrite our software in its own image. We have two completely incompatible computer systems trying to interact.
RIKER: So that's why the ship's instruments have become so erratic.
LAFORGE: Yes.
PICARD: What can you do?
LAFORGE: Not very much. The Iconian program is so sophisticated I may never understand it.
DATA: Consider, Captain, this program has entered an alien data base, ours, and in less than seven hours has managed to not only learn our systems, but has begun to reprogram our computer.
PICARD: And so the earlier probe was responsible for the Yamato's destruction?
LAFORGE: Yes, but only in as much as it was the probe that transmitted the program.
RIKER: But we weren't scanned by that probe. How did this thing get aboard the Enterprise?
DATA: We downloaded the Yamato log, and contained in the log was the program.
PICARD: Why didn't we suffered the same fate?
LAFORGE: The program affected all of the Yamato's systems simultaneously. But with us, it was deposited within a specific section of our mainframe, so it's having to work its way out from that location. That gives us a little breathing space.
RIKER: Not much. The injury reports are increasing too, sir.
DATA: Doctor Pulaski is unwilling to trust the turbolifts. She is sending medical teams through the access tunnels.
LAFORGE: Captain, the Enterprise computer system is a lot like our own bodies with voluntary and involuntary system. Now, probably ninety percent of what happens on this ship is done automatically. Completely out of our control. We're sitting on a bomb that could go off any second, or maybe never.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: The biobeds aren't working? The ship is falling apart! I've had thirty-five emergency calls scattered across twelve decks. My trauma teams are being run ragged trying to respond. Biobeds!
MEDIC: Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: Yes.
MEDIC: I've got a problem here. The knitter isn't working.
PULASKI: Try a splint.
MEDIC: Doctor?
PULASKI: Splint. It's a very ancient concept. You take two flat pieces of wood or plastic, a bandage. The broken limb is kept immobile.
DOCTOR: That's crazy, that's not practicing medicine.
PULASKI: Oh yes, it is. It's a time honored way to practice medicine, with your head and your heart and your hands. So jump to it.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Damn!
DATA: Try a bypass on the shield control interface.
LAFORGE: No go. Let me see if I can directly access the master program.
LAFORGE: Data?
DATA: Yes?
LAFORGE: What happened?
DATA: Any answer would be mere speculation. This is yet another example of how our actions have random results.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. I noticed.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Life support has failed on decks seven and thirteen, sir. Now what if this thing manages to rewrite our entire system? It's so far beyond us that we don't have a hope of understanding it, let alone controlling it. Our own ignorance could kill us.
PICARD: We may never reach that point. A variation of what happened to the Yamato might destroy us first.
RIKER: So we just sit here and watch our ship disintegrate around us?
PICARD: The probe was launched from Iconia, probably from an automated system. There may be records near the launch site that could help us find a solution.
RIKER: I'll arrange an away team.
PICARD: And I'll lead it.
RIKER: You will lead it?
PICARD: Yes.
RIKER: Sir, we've had this conversation a hundred times.
PICARD: And we will have it again, Number One. I have been studying the Iconians since I was a cadet. I have to be the one to go. The Enterprise is yours.
RIKER: For as long as she lasts.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got a fix on the energy source, and for the moment this baby's working, but that could change in an instant.
PICARD: We're aware of the risks. Energize.
O'BRIEN: Transport complete.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Stay sharp, Mister O'Brien, I want to be able to pull them out of there at a moment's notice.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
WESLEY: Commander, Romulan vessel.
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies.
WILLIAMS: They're arming photon torpedoes.
RIKER: Shields up! Go to Red Alert.
WESLEY: Sir, the shields aren't responding.
WILLIAMS: They are preparing to fire photon torpedoes.
RIKER: Mister Crusher, I need those shields!
WESLEY: I'm trying, sir!
WILLIAMS: They're firing.
RIKER: What happened?
WILLIAMS: Instead of firing they suddenly disarmed and canceled.
RIKER: Fate protects fools, little children and ships named Enterprise. Lock phasers on the Romulans and hold your fire.
WESLEY: Sir, the shields are back up.
RIKER: Impeccable timing.
WESLEY: Sir, the shields are back down.
WILLIAMS: Phaser banks are down.
WESLEY: Shields are back up.
TROI: In another time and place this could be funny.
RIKER: Status of torpedo banks?
WILLIAMS: They're down, too.
RIKER: In case it should become necessary to fight, could you arrange to find me some rocks to throw at them?
WILLIAMS: Sir, the Romulan torpedoes are continuing to arm and disarm.
RIKER: Maybe its attempt to fire was unintentional. Open hailing frequencies.
WILLIAMS: Open.
RIKER: Romulan vessel, this is Commander William Riker, First Officer of the USS Enterprise. Why did you attempt to fire on us?
TARIS (screen): This is Sub-Commander Taris of the Haakona. Why have you penetrated deeper into the Neutral Zone?
RIKER: Why are you still here?
TARIS (screen): I have claimed this planet for the Romulan Empire.
RIKER: This is the Neutral Zone. Nobody can claim anything.
TARIS (screen): You will withdraw or I will be forced to destroy your ship and your away team.
RIKER: What the hell?
TARIS (screen): This is your final warning, I will not
RIKER: Having a little trouble with your systems, Commander? Maybe we could consider postponing the war until we solve our more immediate problem?
TARIS (screen): You're stalling for time.
WESLEY: Sir, another probe launched from the planet, heading toward the Romulans.
RIKER: Have we got our phasers back?
WILLIAMS: No, sir.
RIKER: Taris, if you've got phaser capability, prepare use them now!
TARIS (screen): What?
RIKER: Destroy that probe!
RIKER: And not even a thank you.
TROI: Sub-Commander Taris is deeply frustrated, probably because her ship is as crippled as the Enterprise.
WESLEY: Why would the Romulans be experiencing problems? They weren't probed.
RIKER: They must have tapped into the Yamato log. Taris got a whole lot more than she bargained for. Maintain Red Alert. Try to keep those shields up in case Taris decides to act on her threat.
WESLEY: Commander, what about the away team? With the shields up, we can't beam them back.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. While there is little left on the surface of Iconia, we have found what appears to be a control center which seems to have remained intact.

[Iconian Control room]
WORF: Come in, Enterprise. Still no response, sir.
PICARD: Keep trying them. Communications are bound to be erratic.
WORF: I would not like to become a permanent resident of this planet.
PICARD: Nor would I, Mister Worf.
DATA: Scanners show no other life forms on the planet, sir.
PICARD: I would not expect any. Judging from the severity of bombardment, I doubt any Iconians survived. Well, Mister Data, let's see what sense we can make of this.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: This is very reminiscent of Dinasian.
DATA: Yes, sir. There are also similarities to Dewan and Iccobar.
PICARD: Is it possible that they could be branches of the same language family, beginning with Iconian?
DATA: It is, sir.
PICARD: Run a comparison using basic simple words from Dinasian, Dewan and Iccobar. See if we can reconstruct a common root language.
DATA: Accessing, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: You're jumpy.
TROI: The tension on the ship is very high.
RIKER: What's your recommendation?
TROI: Give everyone something to do, somewhere to focus their attention.
RIKER: All right. Let's consider evacuation.
TROI: To the planet?
RIKER: I know it's probably impossible with Taris sitting out there, but it would give everyone something to do. You go and organize it.
TROI: But you might need me if you have to negotiate with Taris again.
RIKER: I'll manage. Right now, they're more important.

[Iconian Control room]
DATA: Captain, your original hypothesis is correct. Iconian is the parent tongue of a language family which consists of Iccobar, Dewan and Dinasian. I have constructed a basic working understanding through a comparison of common root words such as mother, father, child, home, tribe, food, life, death, yours, ours, mine
PICARD: Data, Data, Data.
DATA: You do understand, sir, that my interpretation of the symbols will not be exact?
PICARD: Yes. Let's get on with it.
DATA: This would appear to be manual override.
DATA: That was not manual override.
PICARD: Demons of Air and Darkness, indeed.
WORF: What is that?
PICARD: A gateway?
WORF: These scenes could be holographic images.
PICARD: Be careful.
PICARD: Data! That was very foolish.
DATA: But we have established that this is not a holograph. If I step through and investigate, we could determine whether it is truly a gateway.
PICARD: No, Data. You might not be able to get back, and I can't risk losing you.
WORF: If it is not illusion, this gate would seem to take us beyond the confines of this planet.
PICARD: Is this how the Iconians traveled? Crossing light years as easily as we would cross a room? Those places could be on worlds in distant sectors of the galaxy. I think the Iconians might have out-foxed their enemies. Maybe they didn't all die in the bombardment. Some of them could have passed through this. This is what Varley feared. This is what he died for.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: The Romulans could use this technology as a weapon.
WORF: Like the Iconians did.
DATA: No, I disagree. Captain, there is nothing in this room to indicate it was used as a military command center. Perhaps a transporter room?
WORF: But the probe was hostile.
PICARD: We can't make that assumption. The effect on the Yamato was devastating, but what if it was by accident, not by design. What I'm going to say may sound unscientific, but standing on this soil, breathing in this air, my instincts tell me that we may have got them wrong.
WORF: But we do know that the Iconians were conquerors.
PICARD: But that knowledge was passed down by the descendants of those who attacked this world. The victors invariably write the history to their own advantage. There is an unfortunate tendency in many cultures to fear what they do not understand. It's possible that their enemies, confronted with this technology, were driven to attack the Iconians out of fear.
WORF: Sir!
WORF: Was that really the Enterprise?
PICARD: I believe that it was. Gentlemen, we have a way home.
DATA: Captain, there is a vast underground power source which is controlled by this console. I believe my triggering of the gateway has caused a dramatic upsurge in power level. Ah, I have access.
PICARD: Data, can you hear me? Data, respond.
DATA: Captain.
WORF: Are you all right?
DATA: No, I am damaged.
PICARD: How bad is it?
DATA: The Iconian program is attempting to rewrite my software. Physical manifestations, blindness, motor con
WORF: Sir, without him we have no hope of deciphering the program. Captain, the Enterprise again.
PICARD: How long is the interval?
WORF: About four minutes, if the cycle holds.
PICARD: The next time the Enterprise appears, go through it with Data. Geordi will be able to learn from him. Maybe help him.
WORF: Sir, we have not yet established that that is truly a gateway.
PICARD: This will be the test.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Destroy the tricorder.
WORF: Sir, it contains everything we've discovered up to this point.
PICARD: And that is precisely why it must be destroyed. How long?
WORF: About three minutes.
PICARD: I'm running out of time. We all are. Data. Data, I have to destroy this. This control room and its technology must not be allowed to fall into Romulan hands.
DATA: I understand, sir.
PICARD: How! How do I do it? How do I destroy everything? The control room, the probes, all of it.
DATA: The power source, sir.
PICARD: I detonate it. But how? How do I do that?
DATA: The probes, sir.
PICARD: Probes? The probes. Launch? I launch the probes? But why? What's good will that do?
DATA: The doors, sir.
PICARD: Doors?
WORF: Perhaps the probes are in a launch bay.
PICARD: And if the doors are closed, then the backwash from the rockets will spill into the power grids and there'll be an overload.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: But the doors will open automatically when the launch begins. And I will override.
DATA: Correct, sir.
PICARD: Which control keys? Damn. Of course, you can't see.
DATA: Help.
PICARD: Worf, help him up.
DATA: Describe, please.
PICARD: I'm standing directly in front of the gate. To my left there is a small triangular screen.
DATA: Right one meter.
PICARD: Right. Now, to my right is a larger triangular screen. The top is solid amber. To the left, red.
DATA: Correct. Key blue, amber, amber, red.
PICARD: That's the launch sequence? How do I override the doors?
DATA: Blue, blue, blue.
PICARD: I hope that's not a stutter. I don't know how long a delay there will be between the launch and the detonation. I'll hold keying the launch sequence until you're through the gate. How long until the Enterprise reappears?
WORF: Almost time. Captain, you will be killed.
PICARD: I'll go through the gate.
WORF: But where will you end up?
PICARD: Very shortly, anywhere will be preferable to this room. Mister Worf, I am depending on you. You must get Data back to the Enterprise. He may be their only hope.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN: Commander! Look!
RIKER: Worf! What happened? Where's the Captain?
WORF: We must take Data to Engineering. Hopefully the Captain will follow.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know how to help him. But comparing recorded norms for Data to the current readings, it's clear that all his functions are just going crazy. If we had an expert, a Maddox, somebody, I
LAFORGE: He's gone.

[Iconian Control room]
COMPUTER: Kandar qui. Kandar pro. Kandar kija. Kandar sis. Kandar exen.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data!
RIKER: What the hell?
DATA: I am accessing.
LAFORGE: The self-correcting mechanism.
DATA: Captain? Captain?
LAFORGE: It's constantly kicking in to make minute adjustments in the positronic brain.
DATA: I am on the Enterprise. How did I get here?
RIKER: He cleared the Iconian program from his own system. How?
DATA: Iconia? I was on Iconia, now I am on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Geordi, this is critical. How?
LAFORGE: Okay, give me a second to think. There was an incompatible program running through Data's system, so the mechanism started searching for a way to keep him alive. The solution. The solution was a shutdown and a total wipe of all affected memory.
DATA: Query. What have I forgotten?
RIKER: Can you do the same thing with the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: I don't see why not, but it will have to be a complete shutdown. We turn her off, and effect a wipe of the Yamato log including every subsequent event since we downloaded it. I'll then be able to reload all the ship's programs from the protected archives in the main core.
RIKER: Geordi, if we shut down that means we're going to be bringing down the shields, and we're hanging nose to nose with a Romulan battle cruiser.
LAFORGE: Hey, Commander, whether it's Romulan phasers or our own warp engines, we're just as dead.
RIKER: Make it so.
DATA: May I help?

[Iconian Control room]
COMPUTER: Kandar nien, kandar cobar,
COMPUTER: Kandar konyen.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: All systems functioning.
RIKER: Lock on the Captain, bring him back.
O'BRIEN: Scanning, sir. Got him.

[Iconian Control room]
COMPUTER: Kandar jet, kandar se, kandar tor, kandar eir, kandar

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've lost him!
RIKER: Damn it!
O'BRIEN: Got him, sir. He's on the Romulan ship.
RIKER: How the hell?

[Romulan Bridge]
TARIS: Go to your stations. You did this. You sabotaged my ship.
PICARD: Oh, no.
TARIS: I cannot deactivate the auto-destruct, but at least I have the satisfaction that you will die with us.
PICARD: Not, I think, today, Commander.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Bridge, Picard.
DATA (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Take us out of here. The Romulan ship is set to auto-destruct and they can't deactivate it.
RIKER: Wait, sir. Open hailing frequencies.
O'BRIEN: Open, sir.
RIKER: Commander Taris, prepare to receive a transmission from our Chief Engineer. He'll instruct you how to purge your system.

[Bridge]
TARIS (voiceover): Agreed, Enterprise. Standing by.
DATA: Commander, your transmission has been received

[Transporter room]
DATA (voiceover): And acknowledged.
RIKER: Now, Mister Data, warp speed, please. Just in case Taris's engineer is not as efficient as our Mister La Forge.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Well, Number One, I can see why you want to keep the away missions to yourself. That's where the excitement is. So, what's been happening here? Same old routine, I suppose?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42625.4, We're entering orbit around the eighth planet in this previously unmapped Theta One Sixteen solar system. We diverted from our scheduled course when a passing Klingon cruiser reported discovering pieces of a strange vessel in the upper atmosphere of this planet. We have come to investigate.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Nasty. Nitrogen, methane, liquid neon. Surface temperature minus two hundred and ninety one degrees Celsius. Winds up to three hundred and twelve meters per second.
RIKER: Not exactly a vacation planet, eh?
LAFORGE: Not unless you like ammonia tornadoes. But I have found indications of debris in an elliptical orbit.
RIKER: Keep me informed. The sooner we find out what the Klingons think they saw, the sooner we can get the hell out of here.
LAFORGE: Sounds good to me. Nasty.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Fermat's last theorem. You're familiar with it?
RIKER: Vaguely. I spent too many math classes daydreaming about being on a starship.
PICARD: When Pierre de Fermat died they found this equation scrawled in the margin of his notes. X to the nth plus Y to the nth equals Z to the nth, where n is greater than 2, which he said had no solution in whole numbers. But he also added this phrase. Remarkable proof.
RIKER: Yeah, that's starting to come back to me. There was no proof included.
PICARD: For the eight hundred years people have been trying to solve it.
RIKER: Including you.
PICARD: I find it stimulating. Also, it puts things in perspective. In our arrogance we feel we are so advanced, and yet we cannot unravel a simple knot tied by a part-time French mathematician working alone, without a computer.
RIKER: Captain, we've detected some sort of debris in a loose orbit.
PICARD: Can you identify it?
RIKER: No, sir. I suggest we beam a section aboard for analysis.
PICARD: Make it so, Number One.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We've locked onto something with markings on it.
PICARD: What sort of markings?
RIKER: Uncertain. Energize.
PICARD: We've got ourselves a puzzle, Number One.
RIKER: Yes sir. I think we have.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Analysis bears out that the object was definitely terrestrial in origin, dated mid twenty first century.
PICARD: No, no. No Earth ship of that time could have traveled out this far.
DATA: Nevertheless, that is what our tests indicate. And the markings we discovered are consistent with this hypothesis.
TROI: Any indication of what destroyed it, Data?
DATA: That is even more significant than the object itself, Counselor. On several of its surfaces, the molecules seem to have disintegrated
RIKER: Disintegrated? How?
DATA: Almost as if they were hit by a weapon from our time.
PICARD: Curiouser and curiouser.
WESLEY (voiceover): Captain, we've detected a large structure on the planet.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: It's a building of some sort, situated on a plain of frozen methane, smack in the middle of a tremendous storm belt.
RIKER: I don't believe this. That structure is surrounded by breathable air.
PICARD: Is there any connection between that structure and the ship fragment we found?
LAFORGE: Unknown, sir.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Just one, sir. We could go down there and have a look.
PICARD: Breathable air. No life forms that might be dangerous. I think we could risk a minimal away team, Number One.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Give me a moment, gents. We're dealing with an extremely narrow access point.
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Ready when you are.
O'BRIEN: I believe we've got it now. You have a green light, Commander.
RIKER: Energize.

[Planet surface]
DATA: Those ammonia storms are less than a kilometer away, yet they do not appear to penetrate this breathable zone.
RIKER: It's like the eye of a hurricane.
WORF: Commander, what is that?
RIKER: A door.
DATA: The structure must be here, yet we cannot see it.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): As your read out shows, this is an unusual place.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Completely calm, no sound, no movement, yet a few hundred meters away a storm is raging.
PICARD (voiceover): Any information about the structure.
RIKER: Yes, sir. There is an antique revolving door. It could be an entrance.

[Bridge]
PICARD: A revolving door? Number One, proceed with caution.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Well, this is what we came here for. Captain, we're entering.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Enterprise to away team, come in.
LAFORGE: We're receiving no signal at all from them, sir.
PICARD: Transporter room. lock on to the landing party. Beam them up.
LAFORGE: We've got nothing to lock on to, sir.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. We've entered the structure. Riker to Enterprise, come in. Come in, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: When they went through that antique doorway, the signal just disappeared, sir.
PICARD: What's causing the interference?
LAFORGE: Unknown.
PICARD: Are they receiving us?
LAFORGE: No. We're going to have to recalibrate all the frequencies to find one that'll work.
PICARD: Then do it.

[Lobby]
DATA: Sir, without communication, we should beam up immediately.
RIKER: We're here, there's no danger. We'll look around then leave.
BELLBOY: Checking in, gentlemen? You'll have to go to the front desk.
RIKER: Very good. We'll start with that.
CLERK: Welcome, gentlemen. Have a nice trip?
RIKER: Do you know us?
CLERK: We've been expecting you. A trio of foreign gentlemen.
RIKER: Yes. We're from the United Federation of Planets.
CLERK: Of course you are. Welcome to the Hotel Royale
BELLBOY: Excuse me. Did Rita call?
CLERK: I'm busy.
BELLBOY: You're busy? This is my life I'm talking about here. Now did Rita call or not?
CLERK: No, and for your own good you'd better quit thinking about Rita.
BELLBOY: I'm not afraid of Mickey D.
CLERK: Then you're a fool. Anybody with any sense is afraid of Mickey D.
BELLBOY: If Rita calls, you let me know.
CLERK: Kid's just asking for trouble. Rita's too much for him to handle, and Mickey D's going to plant his face in the pavement. Now, here are your room keys. And some complimentary casino chips. Enjoy.
WORF: What is this place? How did a being like you get here?
CLERK: Why, this is the Royale, of course. And my personal life is really none of your business, thank you.
RIKER: What he means is, what planet is this?
CLERK: I beg your pardon?
RIKER: This planet. What do you call it?
CLERK: Earth. What do you call it?
WORF: We call it Theta Eight.
CLERK: How charming.
DATA: Commander
RIKER: Yes, Data?
DATA: None of these people are emitting life signs.
WORF: You mean they're not alive?
RIKER: Then what are they?
WORF: These beings, are they machines, or mere illusions designed to deceive us?
DATA: Not illusion, Lieutenant. They do exist, but they do not register as either man or machine.
DATA: Take this creature, for example. He does not exhibit any DNA structure.
TEXAS: Excuse me, son. Look who's talking. Man, you sound just like my ex-wife. All right. Time to get back to business!
DATA: What sort of business do you suppose he is getting down to?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status report.
WESLEY: We're attempting to employ alternate encoding schemes.
LAFORGE: There could be hundreds of possible combinations.
PICARD: Is there an intelligence causing this interference?
LAFORGE: That's impossible to tell, Captain.
PICARD: It's unlike Commander Riker not to follow procedure. When he lost contact with the Enterprise, he should have returned immediately to the beam down coordinates.
TROI: I don't feel he's in any danger. In fact, if I could choose one word to assess his mood, it would be amused.
PICARD: Amused?

[Casino]
TEXAS: Put some chips there, mister. Yes, sirree! You're new around here, aren't you?
DATA: Yes, sir.
TEXAS: Sit down. I'm going to teach you how this game is played, boy. Go ahead. Ante up.
VANESSA: He wants you to cut the cards.
DATA: Ah, is this poker?
TEXAS: No, no, blackjack.
DATA: Blackjack. Accessing. Ah. Also known as twenty one, a number which defines the object of the game. Picture cards are worth ten, aces one or eleven, all other cards face value.
TEXAS: Boy, you're right. You are right.
TEXAS: Pretty smooth. Run 'em, boy. Make 'em nice and friendly.
VANESSA: Twenty one, twenty one.
TEXAS: Don't look at your hand, honey. That gal has got to win. Now, honey, you got fifteen and the dealer's showing ten.
VANESSA: Do I hit, Texas, or do I stand?
TEXAS: If you've got to win, you've got to hit.
VANESSA: Hit me. Damn!
TEXAS: Shoot. Hit me. Twenty one, and a winner. Yes, sirree.
DATA: Hit me. Another please.
TEXAS: Do you think you've had about enough?
DATA: If the objective of the game is to approach a total of twenty one points, I will definitely need another card.
VANESSA: Yeah.
TEXAS: Boy, you have got the brass. Do you know what the odds are on a five card charlie? Hell, you're just throwing your money away.
DATA: Hit me.
TEXAS: How'd you? Shut my mouth. Hey, you're not one of them card counting fellas, are you?
DATA: The number of the cards and their values remain quite constant. What would be the purpose in counting them?
VANESSA: Yeah.
RIKER: Having fun, Data?
DATA: Fun, sir? While there is a certain amount of enjoyment involved, I am mainly conducting research into
RIKER: Save it. We're getting out of here.
DATA: Understood, sir.
TEXAS: Guys, you're holding up the game.
RIKER: Our apologies, sir.
TEXAS: I'll watch your chips.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
TEXAS: Hey. The hat.
DATA: Sorry, sir.
TEXAS: Deal them up.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Progress?
WESLEY: We've accessed the range of encoding scheme alternates. The difficulty is in the frequency range. The interference is highly variable.
LAFORGE: See, the problem may be with the envelope covering the structure. There are hydrogen-carbon helix patterns throughout.
PICARD: Any transmissions are simply scattered and refracted at random. No wonder you can't get through.
LAFORGE: Exactly.
PICARD: Those are some fairly aggressive computations, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: I'm comparing the molecular integrity of that bubble against our phasers.
PICARD: Is penetration possible?
LAFORGE: I don't know just yet. It may be an option. I'd like to run this test.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Let's try that again.
RIKER: Let's find another way out of here.
DATA: Excuse me. Excuse me. Aside from the main door, is there another exit I might use?
DATA: Excuse me?
RIKER: Excuse me. Say, I was wondering if you could tell me
RIKER: There's a good deal of structural integrity, Worf.
WORF: Permission to use phaser, sir.
RIKER: Granted.
DATA: Sir, I can find no other exits. I believe we are trapped here.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit around Theta Eight, still out of contact with the away team.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're almost there, Captain. We'll be able to attempt contact in a few minutes.
TROI: Captain, the situation down there has changed.
PICARD: In what way?
TROI: Commander Riker has become tense. Closed in, he's feeling trapped.

[Casino]
WORF: Phasers are totally ineffective on all surfaces.
DATA: Sir, our options appear quite limited.
RIKER: We don't have any. If we're going to get out of here, we're going to have to do it on our own. I'm going to get some answers out of that desk clerk.

[Lobby]
CLERK: Are you crazy?
BELLBOY: Wrong. I'm finally getting some smarts.
CLERK: You think you're going to scare Mickey D with that gun?
BELLBOY: I'm going to make him leave Rita alone.
CLERK: Kid, she's a big girl, and she's Mickey D's girl.
BELLBOY: Not any more. Not after tonight.
CLERK: Look, kid. I like you. I don't want to see you get hurt, especially over some dame
BELLBOY: Don't call her that. You'll see. You'll see how tough Mickey D is. He's nothing.
RIKER: I want some answers.
CLERK: I'm sure the concierge will be delighted
RIKER: We would like to get out of here. Now.
CLERK: The Royale's exits are clearly marked.
RIKER: That's not good enough.
CLERK: If you have a complaint about the service you've received during your stay here, you can always take it up with the manager.
RIKER: Fine. I'd like to see him, immediately.
CLERK: I'm afraid the manager is very busy.
PICARD (voiceover): Riker, can you read me?
RIKER: Yes.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): There's a good deal of interference, but you are getting through.
PICARD: Number One, why haven't you left that building?

[Lobby]
RIKER: We tried, sir. It seems like we're trapped here. We're in no immediate danger

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): But I am concerned.
PICARD: Something about your location is interfering with communication. We are working on the problem.
RIKER (voiceover): Standing by, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, these frequencies are unstable.
PICARD: Then find others.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What is going on down there?

[Lobby]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up something most unusual in another section of this structure. It appears to be human DNA.
RIKER: Where?
DATA: Thirty one point nine meters above and to the right of us.
WORF: Perhaps those turbolifts could take us there.
WORF: Seems to be malfunctioning.

[Hotel corridor]
DATA: The reading I received is from behind this door, sir.

[Hotel room]
DATA: My reading is intensifying, sir.
RIKER: Are you getting any life signs?
DATA: None, sir.
DATA: Definitely human. Male.
RIKER: Looks like the poor devil died in his sleep.
WORF: What a terrible way to die.
DATA: He has been dead for two hundred and eighty three years, sir. The lack of any advanced decomposition is due to the sterile environment.
RIKER: Why would anyone go to all this trouble? It's just window dressing for a dead man.
WORF: Commander.
DATA: Is this significant, sir?
RIKER: American.
DATA: Fifty two stars sir. Places it between 2033 and 2079 AD. It correlates with the debris we found. Colonel S. Richey. Rest in peace, Colonel.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Finally. Riker. Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): You're coming through clearly now.
PICARD: What's your situation?

[Hotel room]
RIKER: This structure was apparently made to resemble twentieth century Earth. All efforts to exit have failed.
PICARD (voiceover): We haven't found a way to transport you back yet.
RIKER: I assumed as much, sir. We've also located the remains of a human. Request identity scan. Colonel Richey. American. First initial S. Roughly the same time period.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do it.

[Hotel room]
WORF: Commander. Some curiosities.
RIKER: Books. A novel. Hotel Royale? Summarize, please.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Information retrieved, Captain
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: We have the information you requested. Colonel Stephen Richey was the commanding officer of the explorer ship Charybdis

[Hotel room]
PICARD (voiceover): Which had a terrestrial launch date of July 23rd, 2037. It was the third manned attempt to travel beyond the confines of the Earth's solar system.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Its telemetry failed. It was never heard from again. Do you believe that you've discovered the remains of Colonel Richey?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes. And Captain,

[Hotel room]
RIKER: We've found something else. A novel by Todd Matthews, entitled Hotel Royale, which is the name of this structure. Data.
DATA: Captain, this is the story of a group of compulsive gamblers caught up in a web of crime, corruption and deceit.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): It is told by nefarious lothario Mickey D, who appears only at the climax to carry out the cold-blooded murder of the hotel bellboy.

[Hotel room]
DATA: There is also a subplot about an older man conspiring with a younger woman to murder her husband. She is squandering her inheritance.
RIKER: Captain, this novel and everything Data just described

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Seems to be exactly what's happening at this hotel.
PICARD: Extraordinary.
RIKER (voiceover): There's also one other thing, a diary with only

[Hotel room]
RIKER: Obviously made by Colonel Richey.
PICARD (voiceover): Can you read it?
RIKER: Yes. I write this in the hope that it will someday be read by human eyes. I can only surmise at this point, but apparently our exploratory shuttle was contaminated by an alien life form which infected and killed all personnel except myself.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): I awakened to find myself here in the Royale Hotel, precisely as described in the novel I found in my room.

[Hotel room]
RIKER: And for the last thirty eight years I have survived here. I have come to understand that the alien contaminators created this place for me out of some sense of guilt, presuming that the novel we had on board the shuttle about the Hotel Royale was in fact a guide to our preferred lifestyle and social habits. Obviously, they thought this was the world from which I came.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): I hold no malice toward my benefactors. They could not possibly know the hell they have put me through.

[Hotel room]
RIKER: for it was such a badly written book, filled with endless cliché and shallow characters. I shall welcome death when it comes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I understand, Number One. Now we know why all that is there.

[Hotel room]
PICARD (voiceover): Why can't you get out?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge has a thought. He believes we can phaser a slice in the field

[Hotel room]
PICARD (voiceover): Surrounding the structure.
RIKER: That means the atmosphere of the planet would instantly rush in.
DATA: Our projected survival would be approximately twelve seconds.

[Observation lounge]
PULASKI: Correct. The cryogenic process would be nearly instantaneous.
RIKER (voiceover): But I assume you could revive us?
PULASKI: Yes.

[Hotel room]
PULASKI (voiceover): In theory.
PICARD (voiceover): You must understand, Number One

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We'll wait here for months if necessary. We're just considering options.
RIKER (voiceover): If you're trying to motivate us to find

[Hotel room]
RIKER: Our own way out of here, you've succeeded, Captain.
WORF: Yes? There is a female voice asking if we want room service.
DATA: I believe she is asking if we want the room cleaned.
RIKER: Tell her no.
WORF: No.
RIKER: What did she say?
WORF: She said the kitchen will be open twenty four hours if we change our minds.
RIKER: We're going to explore the rest of the hotel. We'll keep a comm. line open. You two go down to the lobby and see if there's anything that we've missed. You talk to the guests and try to find out who or what they are. I'll check out the rest of the floors.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Computer, locate and display the text of the novel entitled Hotel Royale by Todd Matthews.
COMPUTER: Accessing.
PICARD: If the cause of the difficulties is in the novel, we may find the solution within its pages. Ah. 'It was a dark and stormy night'. It's not a promising beginning.
TROI: It may get better.

[Casino]
DATA: I suggest we separate and blend in with these beings. Casual queries, offered inconspicuously, may prove fruitful.
VANESSA: I need a four. Give me a four.
TEXAS: Oh, shoot.
VANESSA: How much do I have left here?
TEXAS: Honey, now you know it's bad luck to count your chips at the table.
VANESSA: Yeah?
DATA: Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire, where are you from?
TEXAS: Lubbock, Texas.
DATA: And how did you get here?
TEXAS: To Vegas? Drove my car. I got a ninety one Caddy with only eighty thousand miles on it.
DATA: Where is your automobile now?
TEXAS: Out front, I suppose. What the hell difference does it make?
DATA: Could you take me there?
VANESSA: Hit me. I'm losing my shirt.
TEXAS: Son, why would I want to do that? Can't you see I'm trying to to help this little lady?
DATA: I believe you are trapped inside the Royale, just as I am.
TEXAS: Sure does seem that way when you're losing, don't it? We're just trying to turn this lady's wagon around, and win back some lost change. Otherwise she's in a desperate situation and she's got nowhere to turn. Well, almost nowhere.
VANESSA: I stay, right?
TEXAS: I wouldn't.
DATA: The odds favor standing pat.
VANESSA: What do I do?
TEXAS: Do you want a card or what?
VANESSA: Hit me. Too many. I've almost lost it all. What am I going to do?
TEXAS: There, there, there, there, there.

[Lobby]
RIKER: What did you find?
WORF: Nothing.
CLERK: Rita just called.
BELLBOY: She did? What did she say?
CLERK: It was kind of hard to tell. She was crying.
BELLBOY: Crying? Damn. Mickey D thinks he can treat people any way he wants. Well, that's all over now.
MICKEY D: You were told.
BELLBOY: It's not for you to make the call. It's for Rita.
MICKEY D: She sent me to tell you.
CLERK: Okay, boys. Look, we can't afford to have any trouble in here. Why don't you just take this outside.
MICKEY D: Yeah, I like that. Come on, baggage man.

[Ready room]
MICKEY D (voiceover): Let's you and me take it outside.
BELLBOY (voiceover): When I was a kid, I used to look up to you guys. The suit, the fancy shoes. I really thought that made you somebody, but you're nobody. She could make something out of her life
TROI: I don't believe this dialogue. Did humans really talk like that?
PICARD: Not in real life. Remember, everything that's going on down there is taken from what Colonel Richey calls a second-rate novel.
BELLBOY (voiceover): Like Rita. She could do something with her life. She could be somebody if she only had the chance.
TROI: With your permission, sir.
MICKEY D (voiceover): She is somebody. She's my girl.
BELLBOY (voiceover): You got her on the stuff. That's the only reason she stays with you. Because you feed her sickness.

[Lobby]
BELLBOY: You got to let me help her.
MICKEY D: Well why don't we just go outside and talk about it?
CLERK: Just watch yourself.
BELLBOY: Don't worry.
RIKER: It's all part of the novel. Don't interfere.
MICKEY D: You should have listened to me, kid. No woman's worth dying for. Killing for, not dying for.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Yes, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): A bizarre incident just took place.
PICARD: The shoot-out between the bellboy and Mickey D.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Yes, and Mickey D just walked out the door. How did he do that?

[Ready room]
PICARD: It's on page 244.

[Lobby]
RIKER: In the novel. Right. How does it end?

[Ready room]
PICARD: A bad love affair ends in a bloody shoot-out, the hotel gets bought out, and life goes on, such as it is.

[Lobby]
RIKER: The hotel gets bought? By whom?

[Ready room]
PICARD: It isn't specific. It simply refers to foreign investors. Sale price, twelve point five million United States

[Lobby]
PICARD (voiceover): They return home, leaving the assistant manager in charge.
RIKER: Captain, that's how we're getting out. We're buying this place.

[Casino]
DATA: It is all a question of probabilities. Quite simple, really, if one bets with any sequential consistency.
RIKER: Elaborate.
DATA: The combinations totalling seven or eleven have considerable value when achieved on the primary attempt. With eight variations possible to create those totals, the likelihood of those totals occurring is not significant. However
RIKER: Okay, okay. Can you do it?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
TEXAS: Eight's a point. Eighter from Decatur. Candy see the wise. Do it, do it.
TEXAS: Oh. Snake eyes.
DATA: Single digits on each cube are not at all desirable.
VANESSA: You're almost broke.
TEXAS: Relax, honey. It's only money
VANESSA: Yeah, but if you lose it all, I won't even have a place to sleep.
TEXAS: Don't worry your little head, honey. I'd never let that happen. Go babe, let's go. Here they come, babe.
CROUPIER: Seven. You're out.
TEXAS: You're turn, Slick.
RIKER: Go to work.
TEXAS: Maybe this turkey'll bring us some luck.
CROUPIER: Six. Six is your number.
TEXAS: Hell, my blind grandmother can make a six. Come on, boy, roll 'em.
RIKER: I thought seven and eleven had value.
DATA: Actually, six is a valid point. Of course, now the objective is to roll a duplicate six before hitting seven.
RIKER: But the probability of making a six is no greater than that of rolling a seven.
DATA: There is a certain degree of random fortune involved. I believe that is why they call it gambling.
VANESSA: Yeah.
CROUPIER: Seven. Seven away. Next shooter.
VANESSA: So much for your new turkey.
TEXAS: Give Slick another shot. I got a feeling about you, boy.
DATA: Commander, these cubes are improperly balanced. I believe their final resting position would be
RIKER: Can you repair them?
DATA: I believe so. I will make another attempt.
DATA: Baby needs a new pair of shoes.
TEXAS: Eleven! Attaboy! Do that a few more times and we're all gonna get well!
CROUPIER: Seven, a winner.
TEXAS: And another one. Keep going, boy. We got a hot one. Let's go. Let's go.
RIKER: Double 'em up. Here we go.
TEXAS: Keep 'em rolling, boy. Keep rolling. Seven, a winner.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Number One.

[Casino]
RIKER: Rather a nice run of luck, Captain.
PICARD: Don't get out of character, Commander.
RIKER: Sir?

[Bridge]
PICARD: The foreign investors in the book are described as flamboyantly generous.

[Casino]
RIKER: Yes, sir. I understand.
TEXAS: Seven, look at that.
VANESSA: Oh, Tex, darlin', you're brilliant!
TEXAS: Yeah. And I'm good lookin' too, huh?
WORF: Isn't that enough?
RIKER: No. Don't want to come up short. You are keeping count?
DATA: Yes, sir. Twelve point three million. Perhaps I will bet seven hundred thousand.
RIKER: No, bet it all.
DATA: But sir, the sale price of this edifice is twelve point five million.
RIKER: We need some spreading around money, Data.
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Bet it all.
RIKER: There you go. A little something for you, Ziggy. A little something for those cocktail waitresses. Why don't you run this outside, give it to the parking lot attendants.
CLERK: You're very kind, sir.
RIKER: Here you go, Vanessa. A little something for you, too.
VANESSA: Thank you.
RIKER: When the train comes in, everybody rides.
TEXAS: Yeah, and I'm getting off at this station. After eighteen passes, the air gets a little too thin for this country boy. I'm betting against you, fella.
VANESSA: Are you nuts?
DATA: I do not believe that is a prudent choice, sir.
TEXAS: Hey, that's what horse racing's about. Roll 'em, boy.
CROUPIER: Seven, a winner.
CLERK: The man has the touch.
TEXAS: You knew you were going to throw that seven, didn't you? You just let me go down the tube.
DATA: I tried to caution you, sir.
TEXAS: What was it? I mean, was it personal, or what? Because I didn't show you my car?
RIKER: Now.
DATA: I wish to cash in, sir.
CLERK: I'm afraid you've broken the bank.
RIKER: Just take twelve point five million, the purchase price of this hotel. Spread the rest around.
CLERK: You're the foreign investors.
RIKER: That's right. We just bought this place, lock, stock, and barrel. Consider it a done deal.
TEXAS: I like you fellas. You got style. Let me buy you guys a drink.
RIKER: Just enjoy the game. Don't let them change the dice on you.
TEXAS: You got it.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Enterprise, this is the away team. We're clear of the structure.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Three to beam up.
PICARD: Time to come home now, Number One. Transporter room, we have a fix on the away team. Beam them up.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Sir.
PICARD: Welcome back, Number One.
RIKER: Very strange experience. Puzzling. I still can't comprehend how Colonel Richey's vessel could have traveled out that far. Not on it's own, at any rate.
PICARD: Perhaps they were brought here by whoever created that make-believe world down there. It's possible they didn't know how fragile the humans aboard actually were. Only one of them survived.
RIKER: None of it makes any sense.
PICARD: Like Fermat's theorem, it's a puzzle we may never solve.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come on in.
RIKER: Excellent. Exactly what I need. Ah, Mister Worf. And the good Doctor, bearing gifts.
PULASKI: Ale from Ennan Six. Your omelets deserve no less.
DATA: This is not an efficient method for the preparation of sustenance.
RIKER: No, you're right, Data. The ship's computer would be more efficient, but it wouldn't allow for the subtlety needed for great cooking. It would give you all of the ingredients in pre-determined measurements, but wouldn't allow for flair or individuality. And Data, as we both know, flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence.
PULASKI: For much of the history of mankind, the breaking of bread was a symbol of friendship and community. Something we have gotten away from in the twenty-fourth century.
PULASKI: Ah, you have a practiced hand, Commander.
RIKER: Yes, I have my father to thank.
PULASKI: Your father liked to cook?
RIKER: No, he hated it. That's why he left the chore to me.
WORF: It is my understanding that in most human families, the woman shares in the cooking.
RIKER: There were only the two of us. I never knew my mother. She died when I was very young.
LAFORGE: Where did you get these eggs?
RIKER: On our last stop.
LAFORGE: At Starbase Seventy Three?
RIKER: Yes.
LAFORGE: What kind of eggs did you say these were?
RIKER: Owon. For you, Data, something special. Don't be afraid. They won't bite you. And for you, Mister Worf.
RIKER: A cook's only as good as his ingredients.
WORF: Delicious.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One.
RIKER: Go ahead.
PICARD (voiceover): I would appreciate you joining me on the Bridge.
RIKER: Right away, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, we've picked up an automated signal from a Federation shuttlecraft.
RIKER: A shuttlecraft? How's that possible? I thought we were the only manned Federation vessel out here.
PICARD: Apparently not.
RIKER: What's a shuttlecraft doing out this far? Where's its mother ship?
WORF: Sensors indicate there is at least one life form on board the shuttle, sir. Humanoid.
PICARD: Perhaps someone to answer your questions, Number One. Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Communication is not possible, sir. The shuttle is without power.
RIKER: Set course to intercept.
DATA: Estimate intercept in three minutes.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42679.2. While en route to the Endicor system, we have encountered a Federation shuttlecraft, which seems to have appeared out of nowhere. There are no indications of where it came from or how it got out here.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are closing on shuttlecraft, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. On screen.
RIKER: Magnify.
RIKER: Prepare to lock on tractor beam.
DATA: Target vehicle. We will be within tractor beam range in two seconds.
RIKER: Set automatic locking device. Alert Shuttlebay two.

[Shuttlebay two]
DATA (voiceover): Shuttlebay two, prepare for retrieval procedure.

[Bridge]
DATA: Locking tractor beam.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: You're with me, Mister Worf.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, you are needed in Shuttlebay two.
PULASKI (voiceover): I've been monitoring. I'm on my way.

[Shuttlebay two]
DATA (voiceover): Engage secondary tractor beam.
RIKER: It's a Federation shuttlecraft, all right.
WORF: Yet there are no Federation bases or vessels in this area.
RIKER: NCC one seven zero one D USS Enterprise, shuttlecraft five.
RIKER: NCC one seven zero one D USS Enterprise shuttlecraft five.
WORF: How is this possible?
PULASKI: Commander, come here!
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Number One.
RIKER: Are you on the Bridge?
PICARD (voiceover): Where else would I be?
RIKER: Well. right now I think you should be in Shuttlebay two.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Why? What is it?
RIKER: This I think you should see for yourself. Bring Commander Data.

[Shuttlebay two]
PICARD: Condition?
PULASKI: The life signs are very confusing. His heartbeat is strong, but the pulse is off.
PICARD: Is he injured?
PULASKI: There's no signs of trauma.
PICARD: Why is he unconscious? What happened to him?
PULASKI: I can't say. The readings of his brain waves are very strange.
PICARD: Strange? In what way? Non-human? Artificial?
PULASKI: No, neither. They're just out of phase.
PICARD: Can you revive him?
PULASKI: I wouldn't even attempt it till we get him into Sickbay. Come on, let's get him back.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I have never felt anything quite like this before, so it's difficult to put into words. That person is you.
PICARD: No.
TROI: He is as much Jean-Luc Picard as the person I am standing next to. Beyond that, there is very little I can be sure of. I will have to wait until he regains consciousness before knowing more.
PICARD: Data, I need to know what's on the shuttle's logs.
DATA: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, both primary and reserve power has been drained from the shuttle. I am going to have to connect to the Enterprise in order to activate the shuttle's systems.
RIKER: Geordi

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Report to Shuttlebay two immediately.
LAFORGE: I'm on my way.

[Shuttlebay two]
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay. Keep me informed.
RIKER: Captain, seen this?
PICARD: Looks like the damage caused by an antimatter explosion.
RIKER: It must have been just out of range of the shuttlecraft.
PICARD: Data, I need those logs. Counselor.
RIKER: We'll be on the Bridge. Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Resume course and speed. Scanners at maximum range.
WORF: Maximum range.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: There you go. You should have power now.
LAFORGE: What happened?
DATA: The polarity is not compatible.
LAFORGE: That's not possible. The connection's idiot proof.
DATA: The power requirements of the shuttle do not match those of the Enterprise. We will need a variable phase inverter, to align the power from the Enterprise to the circuits of the shuttle.
LAFORGE: Data, what do you think is going on here? I don't mean just with the shuttle, I mean everything.
DATA: I do not have enough information.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: I'm just starting a complete medical work-up. His vital signs are distorted. Some of the indicators are totally depressed, others are fluctuating wildly. I can't explain any of it. But he is alive. The restraints are for his own protection.
PICARD: Have you been able to determine why he's still unconscious?
PULASKI: No. but I have been able to rule out any head injury.
PICARD: Wake him.
PICARD: What happened?
PULASKI: Apparently, the normal stimulant had the opposite effect. I'll have to try something else.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: All right, Data. I think I've got it now. That ought to give you something. Making this power adjustment is very tricky. By all rights, this connection should blow all the shuttle's circuits.
DATA: Perhaps you had better step out of the way.
LAFORGE: All right, but remember, you're not indestructible yourself, you know.
DATA: Increase the power.
LAFORGE: Powering up.
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent positive.
LAFORGE: Two percent positive. It's the right decision, but it's having the opposite effect.
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I don't understand. I can't think of anything that would cause the circuit to change so radically.
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent negative.
LAFORGE: Okay. Two percent negative. That's it. It shouldn't work, but it does. Hey, Data. Take a look at the stardate. 42679.5. Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've been able to reactivate the shuttle, and the on-board clock indicates that the shuttle is

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Six hours in front of us. Captain, do you read me? If the shuttle's from six hours into the future, then so is the other Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so, presumably, is the facsimile of me.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Try to wake him, again.
PICARD: No!
PULASKI: It's a only a sedative.
PICARD: I know what it is. Don't sedate him. Let him be. Please. Let him to remain conscious.
PULASKI: I have never seen anything like this. Are you all right?
PICARD: I'm fine, Doctor. Save your ministrations for your patient. I want a staff meeting in five minutes. Doctor, I assume you will want to remain here.
PULASKI: Yes, I will monitor the conference from here.
PICARD: Keep me informed of any changes, no matter how small.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I've been informed that Mister Data has recovered the logs from the duplicate shuttlecraft. I am more than apprehensive to play back a log which will not be recorded for several hours.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've retrieved all we are going to get from the shuttle logs, including the last visual records. Everything before that is just a jumble.
PICARD: Show me.
LAFORGE: The distortion is because we had to use a phase inverter to retrieve the logs. The quality will improve slightly.
DATA: According to the shuttle log, the Enterprise was destroyed three hours nineteen minutes from now.
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a portion of the last log entry. It's audio only.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's personal log, supplemental. I have just witnessed the total destruction of the USS Enterprise with a loss of all hands, save one. Me.
LAFORGE: All attempts to obtain further information from the shuttle have failed.
RIKER: Well, at least now we have something to go on.
LAFORGE: I just don't understand how you could have ended up in a shuttlecraft while the Enterprise was being destroyed.
WORF: Nor I. The last thing you would do is leave the Bridge of the Enterprise during an emergency.
PICARD: Yes. All right, let's proceed on the premise that what we have just seen happened, and that in less than four hours from now, the Enterprise will be destroyed, and somehow, although this is unfathomable, I and I alone escape. Discussion.
RIKER: Our destination is the Endicor system. We're due to arrive in three days. The charts show nothing of consequence, certainly nothing to threaten the Enterprise, between here and there.
WORF: Sensors indicated no other vessels, Federation or otherwise, in this area.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: I have nothing to offer. There is not enough information upon which to base a hypothesis.
LAFORGE: Well, the shuttle apparently came from somewhere up ahead, so Rather than continuing on this course, maybe we should stop here and let whatever is out there come to us.
RIKER: We may already be too late.
LAFORGE: What are you saying? That stopping, turning right or left, or even reversing our course, would be pointless?
RIKER: When we brought the shuttle and the other Picard on board, we committed to a sequence of events which may be unalterable.
PICARD: Yes, this is not a rock on the trail which once seen can easily be avoided. This is much more complex.
WORF: There is the theory of the moebius. A twist in the fabric of space where time becomes a loop from which there is no escape.
LAFORGE: So, when we reach that point, whatever happened will happen again. The Enterprise will be destroyed, the other Picard will be sent back to meet with us and we do it all over again. Sounds like someone's idea of hell to me.
RIKER: Well, I know this much. We can't avoid the future.
PICARD: Agreed. So let's continue on course. Somewhere out there something will happen. A decision will be made during the course of which, I will be separated from the Enterprise. At the time, the decision will seem to be correct, but it won't be. We have to anticipate and not make, not make the same mistake once. Something is waiting for us out there. Let's try and determine what it is, as quickly as possible.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: I'm just beginning to realize just how much of the body is held together by its own internal clock. He was thrown out of time, which caused his body systems to change their rhythm. Now, slowly, as we get closer to the time he left, his internal body clock is realigning.
PICARD: You're saying that when our time intersects with the time he left, in that instant he will function normally and, and there will be two of us.
PULASKI: Right now, that is my guess.
PICARD: Doctor, I don't think that's possible.
TROI: I'm able to feel much more from him now, Captain. His emotions are still a jumble, but
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: He desperately wants to leave this ship.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We continue on course to Endicor. We are now less than two hours away from our rendezvous with ourselves.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Worf.
WORF: Maximum scan. Nothing unusual to report.
RIKER: If this timetable is correct, we could get an indication of something very soon.
PULASKI (voiceover): Bridge, this is Sickbay.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Captain, my patient is more coherent.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm on my way. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How is he?
PULASKI: His vital signs are more normal. Which is to say, more like ours. He is calmer.
PICARD: He's aware of me.
PULASKI: Perhaps, in some fashion.
PICARD: But he knows where he is, who's here with him.
PULASKI: I doubt it.
PICARD: What went wrong? You know, don't you? What did you do? What happened? Why did you leave the ship? Don't turn away. Look at me. Picard! Look at me!
TROI: Captain, he doesn't understand you.
PICARD: He knows I'm here.
TROI: Yes, but in a nightmare of disjointed images and half-heard voices. He's in another dimension, looking at us across a great chasm. And he's feeling remorse at what he has witnessed. He's afraid.
PICARD: What is he afraid of? Damn you. Help me! Why did you leave the ship?
TROI: It's no use, Captain. He can't answer you.
PULASKI: When we get closer to his time, he may be able to.
PICARD: Are you still convinced he's me?
TROI: Yes, but you're not convinced.
PICARD: Not in the slightest. Except for his features, there is nothing about him that I find familiar. Counselor, I want you to stay with him. He will be able to communicate with you before any on else.
PULASKI: I don't know how long anyone could take this kind of anxiety state. There has to be a breaking point.
TROI: I think he's handling it very well.
PULASKI: He has a lot of anger.
TROI: Yes, because of what he represents.
PULASKI: And what is that?
TROI: Doubt. He's afraid that seeing him here and knowing what happened to the Enterprise will make him timid, or worse, make him to hesitate.
PULASKI: Part of my job is to anticipate problems. My duty is to the Captain, but first to the ship and its crew.
TROI: Doctor, the Captain is quite capable of command decisions.
PULASKI: Yes, for now. But this situation has put him under extreme pressure of a unique and very personal kind. We both know that pressure will only increase. You said yourself that he already has doubt.
TROI: Which is understandable, and healthy.
PULASKI: And could be potentially paralyzing. If we begin to see signs that he's acting in an irrational manner, I have the authority and the duty to relieve him.
TROI: I don't think that will be necessary.
PULASKI: I hope you're right.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What force or phenomenon could cause the shuttle to be thrown back in time?
RIKER: None that we've encountered. In theory, accelerating beyond warp ten.
PICARD: Using the gravitational pull of a star to slingshot back in time. Is that what happened here?
RIKER: The shuttle doesn't have warp capability.
PICARD: No. So some external force was needed.
RIKER: We've never encountered a natural force that powerful. Why only six hours? Why not a day? Or a year?
PICARD: Are you saying there was some conscious mind at work here?
RIKER: There's no evidence either way.
PICARD: The Traveler moved through time using the power of his mind.
RIKER: I don't think that's the case here.
PICARD: No. And Manheim's experiments with gravity and time were rudimentary, and uncontrollable.
RIKER: Captain, I think this is one instance where you should suppress your natural tendencies.
PICARD: Oh, really?
RIKER: One of your strengths is your ability to evaluate the dynamics of a situation, and then take a definitive pre-emptive step, take charge. Now, you're frustrated because you not only can't see the solution, you can't even define the problem.
PICARD: Go on.
RIKER: What we're facing is neither a person nor a place. At least not yet. It's time.
PICARD: You're saying I should just sit down, shut up and wait.
RIKER: I wouldn't have put it exactly like that.
PICARD: Not something I do easily.
RIKER: Your Persian flaw.
PICARD: Yes, perhaps it is.
WORF (voiceover): Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
WORF: This energy vortex has just appeared beneath us. There was no warning.
RIKER: Well, at least the waiting's over.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have apparently intersected with something.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is similar to our tractor beam, sir, only much more powerful.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Bridge, this is Lieutenant La Forge.
RIKER: Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The pull on the Enterprise is steady. I'm having to hold the warp engines at thirty percent in order to maintain our present position.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transfer Engine control to the Bridge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): On my way, Captain.
TROI: Captain, there is a consciousness here. Not thought, more like instinct.
PICARD: What do you think, Number One?
RIKER: I think we're being probed.
DATA: The beam is coming from the center of the vortex. Sensors show it to be only a mass of energy.
PICARD: What is it trying to learn?
TROI: I think it's trying to determine if we are a life force.
PICARD: We'll stay and investigate.
RIKER: Agreed.
PICARD: Unless that was the mistake. Staying too long.
RIKER: Possibly.
PICARD: We should go now.
RIKER: Well
PICARD: That would be the prudent move. I never thought I'd hear myself saying something like that.
RIKER: Under the circumstances, sir, I think you're right.
PICARD: But you would rather stay and find out what it is? What is its intent?
LAFORGE: Engineering, transfer to Bridge.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: Try and take us out of here. Maximum warp.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. I've set the velocity at warp nine.
PICARD: Engage.
LAFORGE: Warp engines are at ninety one percent.
PICARD: Put it to the wall, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I can't hold it.
RIKER: Captain, the engines can't handle the strain.
PICARD: All stop.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I'm re-engaging warp engines, Captain.
PICARD: Status?
WORF: All decks have reported. No damage. No injuries.
LAFORGE: Captain, the hold on the Enterprise is still very strong. I'm having to hold at warp seven just to maintain our position.
PICARD: Everything we do tightens its grip. Let's see what we can learn. Launch a Class one probe.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf
PICARD: That was personal.
LAFORGE: Captain, the power drain needed to hold this position is enormous.
PICARD: How long can you maintain it?
LAFORGE: Just a few minutes and then we're going to have to shut down again.
PULASKI (voiceover): Captain some kind of energy

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Just surrounded my patient.
PICARD (voiceover): Is he still alive?
PULASKI: Yes

[Bridge]
RIKER: Arm the photons, Mister Worf. Lock on the center of the vortex.
WORF: Photon torpedoes locked on target.
PICARD: Hold for my order.
RIKER: Like a rag in a dog's mouth.
LAFORGE: I am now at maximum warp.
TROI: It's you, Captain. It was the entire ship, but now it has focused its attention entirely on you.
LAFORGE: Captain, I can't hold it any longer. If we don't shut down right now, we are going
PICARD: Hold this position. Counselor, if I were to leave the Enterprise, would its attention still be focused on me?
TROI: Yes. I think it would.
RIKER: You'd never survive.
PICARD: But in those few seconds, the Enterprise might break free. That's what he, that's what the other Picard must have thought.
RIKER: Captain, where are you going?
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: You're leaving the ship?
PICARD: We may be on a road that has no turns.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: He's very agitated.
P2: I must get to the shuttle.
PICARD: I know. Do you know where you are?
P2: The Enterprise.
PICARD: Yes, but you're only vaguely aware of it. And me? Do you know who I am? No, you don't, do you.
P2: I must go.
PICARD: Release him.
PULASKI: Do you know what you are doing?
PICARD: No. Release him.
PULASKI: Security to Sickbay.
PICARD: No. Security, disregard that order, and clear all personnel, repeat, all personnel, from Shuttlebay two.
PICARD: I don't want any distractions. You, stay here.

[Corridor]
PICARD: You made a decision to leave the ship?
P2: I must.
PICARD: Why?
P2: The energy in the vortex wants me.
PICARD: You're certain.
P2: Yes. It's an entity, a life form, which recognizes the Enterprise as an entity with me as its brain. And it wants me.

[Turbolift]
P2: Shuttlebay two.
PICARD: What's your other option?
P2: This is our only chance. If I leave, it may be distracted long enough for the Enterprise to escape.
PICARD: You're wrong. If you leave, the Enterprise will be destroyed. Don't you remember? You saw it happen.
P2: If I don't leave the ship, then the Enterprise will be destroyed.

[Corridor]
PICARD: If that's true, then help me. We want the same thing. We both want the Enterprise to be safe. But there is a piece of information I don't have. What is it?
P2: It's me.
PICARD: You?
RIKER (voiceover): Captain.
PICARD: Yes.
RIKER (voiceover): We are about to lose warp drive.
PICARD: Understood.
P2: Understood.

[Shuttlebay two]
PICARD: When you say it wants you, do you mean it's still you, only you, and not me.
P2: You're confusing me. We're almost out of time. I must get to the shuttle.
PICARD: Wait. You can. I'll let you. But first, tell me. What is, what was your other choice?
P2: Stand aside.
PICARD: You must tell me. What was it? You don't know what I'm talking about. You're locked into a single intent unable to change. Unable to alter any part of your previous actions.
P2: I have to leave. There's no other way.
PICARD: There must be.
P2: One. But it would never work.
PICARD: What is it? What would never work?
P2: I have to leave.
PICARD: What was the other choice? We can't fight, we can't escape, we can't go forward.
P2: No. No, we can't go forward. That would destroy the Enterprise.
PICARD: Was that it? Is that the other choice?
P2: I must leave.
PICARD: No. Captain Picard. I can not allow you to leave. Before we can go forward, the cycle must end.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, report to Shuttlebay two.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, we're wasting our energy trying to escape. It only weakens us. Helm, set a course for the center of the vortex. Mister La Forge, on my command, I want all the power you can muster.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: We're going in?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA: Course set, sir.
PICARD: Now everyone hold their position. No matter what. Engage. ibi
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Captain Picard.

[Shuttlebay two]
O'BRIEN: This is Shuttlebay two. The other Picard and the shuttle are gone.
PICARD (voiceover): Explain.
O'BRIEN: They just vanished.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's our position?
DATA: We are back on course to Endicor.
RIKER: Stand down from Red Alert.
WORF: All decks have reported in. No damage, no casualties.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: A lot of questions, Number One. Damn few answers.
RIKER: Maybe none of it was real. Perhaps we were all part of a shared illusion.
PICARD: Or maybe he was thrown back in time, so that we would be able to take another road. Make a different choice. Well, they say if you travel far enough you will eventually meet yourself. Having experienced that, Number One, it's not something I would care to repeat.
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42686.4. We are en route to Starbase Montgomery for engineering consultations prompted by minor readout anomalies.

[Engineering]
DATA: I would consider them insignificant.
RIKER: What if you're wrong? Sorry. But what if it is more than a mere discrepancy?
LAFORGE: Then I'd say we have a problem.
PICARD: Agreed. We'll have Starbase Montgomery give us an independent reading.
DATA: Even if the molecular level controls have failed, we can still recrystallize the dilithium without outside help.
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Data. My ego isn't at stake here.
DATA: Perhaps we can reprogram the system to correct the readout variables
PICARD: Well, that's certainly another option, but as we're stopping at Starbase Montgomery anyway, we'll let them do the analysis.
RIKER: I don't recall Starbase Montgomery on the mission itinerary
PICARD: I think we could all use a twelve hour layover. Besides, I've just received some personnel transfer directives. Priority matter,
RIKER: Boarding or disembarking?
WESLEY (voiceover): Captain Picard. We're within hailing range of Starbase Montgomery
PICARD: Go to half impulse power. Will you join me in the Observation lounge when you're done?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Number One, I've just been recollecting the arrival of a new First Officer on board the Enterprise, and a manual docking confidently achieved. I may have been somewhat miserly in my congratulations then, so let me make up for it now. The Captain of the Starship Ares is retiring. Congratulations. You've been selected as his replacement.
RIKER: The Ares. She's in Vega-Omicron sector.
PICARD: And they have picked up indications of an intelligent life form, though nothing confirmed.
RIKER: Obviously, Starfleet will want to know more.
PICARD: That's why they're asking for you. Not for your military proficiency, but for your skill as an explorer and as a diplomat.
RIKER: Vega-Omicron. It'll take months at high warp just to get there.
PICARD: With no guarantee of finding anything when you arrive. Well, you have twelve hours to think it over. And if it's not too premature, congratulations, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Establish synchronous orbit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Starbase Montgomery is sending a civilian advisor on board to brief you on the Ares's mission.
RIKER: A personal briefing?
PICARD: A strategic attaché with specialized knowledge in the frontier regions. I think you'll find the briefing interesting.
RIKER: I hope it's complete. Much of my decision will be based on it.
HERBERT (voiceover): Commander Riker to Transporter room three.
PICARD: Enjoy.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Ensign.
HERBERT: Ah, you're right on time, Commander. He's on his way now.
RIKER: Dad. You're the civilian advisor? The strategic attaché?
KYLE: I asked Captain Picard to keep it quiet. I didn't want you to make you nervous or excited.
RIKER: It's been fifteen years. Excitement is hardly the appropriate emotion.
KYLE: You've done well. First Officer on the Enterprise. Quite a feather in your cap.
RIKER: I've worked hard.
KYLE: Of course. I'm proud of you, son.
RIKER: If you'll excuse me, I've got my duties to attend to. When you've settled in, we can complete our briefing. Have Security arrange an escort for this gentleman.
HERBERT: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Worf, did you hear about Commander Riker's promotion?
WORF: Yes.
WESLEY: He didn't know his father was coming. He was completely surprised.
WORF: So?
WESLEY: Can you imagine if it was your father?
WORF: I never knew my father.
WESLEY: And I didn't have a father long enough to know him.
WORF: It is a waste of time to think of such things.
WESLEY: I wasn't thinking about it, but everybody needs somebody.
WORF: Enough!

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: You know, Starbase Montgomery really didn't have to send me all this help, because we've already checked the entire dilithium spectrum for anomalous frequencies, so you don't have to waste your time on that.
LAFORGE: Wes. Are you okay?
WESLEY: I was just talking to Worf. He's really eccentric at times.
LAFORGE: That's one word for it.
WESLEY: He was really upset. I must've said something wrong.
LAFORGE: Maybe Worf's not too thrilled with the idea of losing Commander Riker to a new assignment. I know I'm not.
WESLEY: Neither am I. But with Worf it was something else. Something's really bothering him.
LAFORGE: Think so?

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Female?
RIKER: No.
O'BRIEN: Career? Career?
RIKER: Family.
O'BRIEN: That is trouble. You choose your enemies, you choose your friends, but family? That's in the stars.
RIKER: So I've heard.
MAN: Kyle Riker! Excuse me, ladies. Great to see you.
MAN 2: Kyle. Been a long time.
PULASKI: This is more than a surprise. It's total shock.
KYLE: You mean you didn't bake me a cake?
PULASKI: You're actually here.
KYLE: That makes two of us. How about a drink?
PULASKI: How about a kiss?
RIKER: They know each other.
O'BRIEN: No kidding. I know her too, but we don't do that.
KYLE: You look wonderful.

[Engineering]
DATA: And it has nothing to do with Commander Riker's new assignment?
WESLEY: No. His reaction was just the opposite of mine. Completely unaffected.
LAFORGE: You see? With all that's going on, maybe you're overreacting.
WESLEY: Really? You try talking to Worf, Geordi. I'm telling you, he is not normal for Worf.
DATA: There is, of course, a genetic predisposition toward hostility among all Klingons, but Worf has been unusually out of sorts.
LAFORGE: Come on, he's never been much on charm.
WESLEY: Well, whatever is troubling him, I think we should try to help. He is our friend.
LAFORGE: I for one want to keep him friendly.
WESLEY: Suggestions?
DATA: Empirical study. Monitor the subject.
WESLEY: Right. Watch the subject for any signs of unusual behavior.
LAFORGE: That won't be difficult.
DATA: Within the norm of Klingon patterns, of course. Discretion will be required.
WESLEY: Agreed. When do we start?
LAFORGE: We will assist you as needed. You found the problem.
DATA: And you must solve it.

[Ten Forward]
KYLE: Thank you. And after working out the Fuurinkazan battle strategies at the Tokyo Base, I was asked to come here to work for Starfleet as a tactical advisor.
PULASKI: I'm surprised you stayed our of the action as long as you did. Will, please join us. Your father and I are just catching up.
RIKER: You never told me you knew him.
PULASKI: Well, it wasn't exactly a secret. It just never really came up.
KYLE: Sit down, son.
RIKER: I'm ready for that briefing whenever you are.
KYLE: Good to see you too, Graham.
PULASKI: You wouldn't be running for mayor, would you?
KYLE: Do pick up work for the Federation long enough and it'll happen to you, too. I thought about you a lot.
PULASKI: Kyle, I don't need to hear what you don't need to say.
KYLE: We could've been great together.
PULASKI: Possibly.
KYLE: Is it true you got married?
PULASKI: Again and again.
KYLE: That make you three for three, doesn't it?
PULASKI: I'm not complaining. Each was good a man and we're all still good friends.
KYLE: Like us?
PULASKI: Close, but different. They were all a little more in touch with themselves.
KYLE: Ouch.
PULASKI: Face facts, Kyle. You're crusty. You have a reputation for being hard as nails and getting the job done. Underneath it all, you're not so bad. Some of us even love you. And then there's Will.
KYLE: Then there's Will.
LAFORGE: Wesley should really be doing this on his own.
DATA: But he needs his study time.
LAFORGE: I can't believe you fell for that. I don't know, Data. He looks perfectly normal to me.
DATA: In solitude, there is nothing to trigger unusual behavior.
LAFORGE: Good point. Let's not tamper with the status quo.
DATA: But that would defeat the opportunity for our behavioral research. In all probability, he is simply lonely. We can relieve his anxiety through socialization.
LAFORGE: Be my guest.
DATA: Excuse me, Lieutenant. You seem to have lost the will to communicate with others. You have friends here. We, we care about you. Why, just recently, Geordi, Wesley and I were saying
WORF: With all due respect, be gone! Sir.
DATA: He seems quite sincere in his desire for solitude.
LAFORGE: Seeing is believing, huh?

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in. Worf?
WORF: May I have a moment, sir?
RIKER: Of course. What is it?
WORF: It is very difficult to say. Words are not always easy for me. Is that Earth?
RIKER: Yes. Alaska. I was nine years old.
WORF: That is a fish you are holding.
RIKER: And I didn't even catch it.
WORF: But it looks like you were
RIKER: I hooked it. My father took the rod away. He wouldn't let me reel it in. He was afraid that I might lose it.
WORF: You do not have good feelings for your father?
RIKER: No, I. I'm not sure what I'm feeling. What's on your mind?
WORF: You plan to leave the Enterprise.
RIKER: I've been offered my own command.
WORF: I would like to join you.
RIKER: I haven't accepted the assignment yet
WORF: But sir, it could be a dangerous mission. There may be the potential for combat.
RIKER: That is not the purpose of the mission.
WORF: Still, to die a true hero
RIKER: Worf, you've made your point.
WORF: Then I know you will do the right thing.

[Observation lounge]
KYLE: Finally. We're alone. Maybe now we can talk.
RIKER: I'm here for the briefing, sir.
KYLE: All you need to know is here.
RIKER: These mission details could have been transmitted.
KYLE: I've been hearing some good things about you.
RIKER: Then why haven't I heard from you?
KYLE: I know. Keeping in touch is not my strong suit. It's a funny thing about being a parent. There aren't any tech manuals. No quick readouts to get you to the next set of variables. You just got to wing it from day to day. Will, when your mother died
RIKER: Excuse me. I've got to study this mission briefing.
KYLE: Will. I came to the Enterprise because. Look, considering where you might be going, I wanted to. I'm here with my hand out, son.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Poor guy. Picked up a flu virus on our last stop at Nasreldine.
KYLE: Sounds nasty. What's the therapy?
PULASKI: Tryptophan-lysine distillates with generous doses of PCS.
KYLE: PCS?
PULASKI: Pulaski's chicken soup.
KYLE: You haven't lost your touch, haven't you?
PULASKI: I like to help. When they hurt, I hurt.
TROI: Commander Pulaski's greatest medical skill is her empathy. You must be Commander Riker's father.
KYLE: Yes, but how?
TROI: We've all heard about you, and I felt certain things.
PULASKI: This is Deanna Troi, ship's Counselor.
KYLE: Kyle Riker.
PULASKI: I thought you two should meet. Deanna's job is to keep us from deluding ourselves.
KYLE: Let me guess. Betazoid?
TROI: At your service.
PULASKI: I have some lab work to do. If you'll excuse me.

[Doctor's office]
KYLE: Why do I get the feeling that this is a set-up?
TROI: Because you are intelligent, wise and quite correct.
KYLE: Well, I've never been set up better, that's for sure
TROI: You're also very anxious about something. It's Will, isn't it? You're not as close to him as you'd like to be.
KYLE: Oh, I don't know. We both have pretty good taste in women, wouldn't you say?
TROI: I'd like to help you if I can. If you'll let me.
KYLE: Fine. What is it you want from me? I came here to bury the hatchet with my son only to find out the ground was frozen solid.
TROI: You don't seem to be the kind of man to give up so easily.
KYLE: I didn't say I was giving up. It would just be nice to get a little something from him.
TROI: What is it you want from him?
KYLE: I don't know. Acknowledgement, maybe or
TROI: Respect is earned, not bestowed.
KYLE: Respect? I don't need that from him.
TROI: Perhaps you want him to be proud of you. You carry great pride in his accomplishments.
KYLE: Absolutely. Look at him. First Officer of the Enterprise, just been offered his first command.
TROI: Yet you covet his success.
KYLE: Please. He'd be lucky to have the career I've had.
TROI: True, you're well respected in your field.
KYLE: I may have something of a reputation for excellence
TROI: And false humility.
KYLE: My guess is that Will finds you pretty fascinating. Candor seems to be a trait he admires.
TROI: Honesty is the trait he admires most. And you should honestly consider why you're so competitive with your own son.
KYLE: Competitive? Maybe in the past. But I've come here to help Will prepare for his first task as captain.
TROI: Are you sure he'll accept such a dangerous assignment?
KYLE: He'll accept it just because it is dangerous.
TROI: How can you be so sure?
KYLE: Because I would. And we aren't so different, Will and I.

[Riker's quarters]
PICARD: You've seen your mission briefing?
RIKER: Yes, I have.
PICARD: Any questions?
RIKER: No, other than a question about the Ares's First Officer.
PICARD: Oh, yes. His name is Flaherty.
RIKER: Yes. The briefing mentions something about an uncanny linguistic skill.
PICARD: That is an understatement, Number One. The last time I saw Commander Flaherty, he spoke forty languages. As I recall, among the more exotic were Romulan, Klingon, Giamon, Stroyerian.
RIKER: He speaks forty languages?
PICARD: He has this unique ability of instantaneously interpreting and extrapolating any verbal communication that he hears. You will find him very useful in Sector Vega-Omicron.
RIKER: Yes, I'm sure I will.
RIKER: Come in.
KYLE: Oh, Captain Picard, at last. I'd like to thank you for all the help you've been to my son.
PICARD: My only regret is that your reunion marks Will's farewell.
KYLE: But he's ready for this command.
PICARD: Oh, yes, I have no doubt.
KYLE: Captain, may I have a word with my son?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Excuse me, gentlemen.
RIKER: I won't be pushed into this decision.
KYLE: Oh, come on, Will. Don't you think you're ready for the Ares?
RIKER: Starfleet does.
KYLE: Of course. Because you're the best candidate for the job. I only want you to know I'm here if you need me.
RIKER: I've been on my own since I was fifteen. I can take care of myself.
KYLE: Please, spare me the pain of your childhood. I hung in for thirteen years. If that wasn't enough, it's just too bad.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, what if I missed something?
DATA: The ship's computer would have corrected immediately.
LAFORGE: Maybe my inputs were incorrect.
WESLEY: Data! Geordi! I figured out Worf's problem.
LAFORGE: You spoke to him?
WESLEY: No, no. I accessed the complete Klingon cultural database. It took me some time
LAFORGE: Okay, Wesley, slow down. What is the problem?
WESLEY: It's the tenth anniversary of Worf's Age of Ascension.
LAFORGE: His what?
WESLEY: The Klingon Age of Ascension. It's a ritual of great significance. A rite of initiation marking a new level of Klingon spiritual attainment.
DATA: And what is the significance of the anniversary of this event?
WESLEY: It's a day of celebration and ritual spent with one's fellow Klingons. Worf doesn't have any Klingon friends.
LAFORGE: We're his friends.
WESLEY: Right, but we don't practice Klingon tradition, And we're not Klingons. Worf is feeling culturally and socially isolated.
LAFORGE: So, what do you suggest we do? I'm not sure I'd like to invite a bunch of Klingons on board.
DATA: We can program the ship's computer to supply simulations on the Holodeck.
LAFORGE: Holographic Klingons. Sure. Why not?
DATA: We need only to program the computer with details of the specific ceremony.
WESLEY: The cultural database said the Klingon's family must attend.
LAFORGE: So? We're his family. We'll go. I just wonder what kind of party the Klingons had in mind.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Have you got a minute?
PULASKI: Sure.
RIKER: I wanted to apologize for my remark in Ten Forward. Your personal is none of my business.
PULASKI: Even if it involves your father?
RIKER: Even if it involves my father.
PULASKI: Did he ever tell you why he never remarried?
RIKER: What woman would have him with an ego like that?
PULASKI: I would have, in a cold minute. Twelve years ago, Kyle Riker was a civilian strategist advising Starfleet in its conflict with the Tholians. The starbase that he was operating from was attacked. None of the base crew was expected to live, and they all died. All except your father. Your father alone had the will to endure, to face the pain, to live.
RIKER: I never knew any of that about him.
PULASKI: I've never saw a man fight so hard in all my life.
RIKER: And you fell in love?
PULASKI: Yes. And so did he. But marriage was out of the question. He had other priorities.
RIKER: His career.
PULASKI: You know, if I were you, going out on the Ares, I'd jettison the emotional baggage you're still carrying around.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Now the Klingon cultural database was very specific on the setting.
LAFORGE: Now let me guess. Twenty piece orchestra, magnificent ballroom, everybody in formal wear.
WESLEY: No, there is some unusual test of inner strength involved
DATA: That would entail the use of Klingon painstiks.
LAFORGE: Painstiks? Sounds lovely.
DATA: Enduring physical suffering is considered a Klingon spiritual test.
LAFORGE: You mean in order for Worf to celebrate the anniversary of his Ascension, he has to be hurt? And we have to witness this?
DATA: We are his family.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I'd be a fool to turn that promotion down, wouldn't I?
PICARD: I don't know, and if you're asking me what I think you should do, I don't know that either. I can spell out for you, albeit crudely, what you are choosing between. As the First Officer of the Enterprise you have a position of distinction, prestige, even glamor of a sort. You are the second in command of Starfleet's flagship, but still second in command. Your promotion will transfer you to a relatively insignificant ship in an obscure corner of the galaxy> But it will be your ship, and being who you are, it will soon be vibrant with your authority, your style, your vision. You know, there really is no substitute for holding the reins.
RIKER: I'll need a little more time to make this decision.

[Engineering]
O'BRIEN: Find anything yet?
LAFORGE: Not yet.
DATA: There is nothing to find.
O'BRIEN: No harm in checking, I guess.
LAFORGE: Really? How would you like them to give the transporter operation a little once-over?
O'BRIEN: No problem. We're totally ship-shape.
LAFORGE: You're missing the point. It's just the idea that they even suspect a malfunction.
DATA: If I were not a consummate professional, and an android, I would find this entire procedure insulting.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.
WESLEY: Chief, will you be able to attend a little party for Lieutenant Worf at seventeen hundred hours?
O'BRIEN: A party for Worf? Sounds intriguing. I'd be delighted.
WESLEY: It's a surprise.
O'BRIEN: My lips are sealed.

[Troi's office]
RIKER: I didn't want to leave without saying good-bye.
TROI: I don't like good-byes. How about, until next time?
RIKER: How about until next time.
TROI: It's been a pleasure serving with you, Commander.
RIKER: The feeling is mutual, Counselor.
TROI: I'm supposed to know how everyone feels but, I can't read you right now.
RIKER: Perhaps your own feelings are getting in the way.
TROI: My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings are beside the point.
RIKER: Not to me. Our feelings are what make us all human.
TROI: Are you feeling sad?
RIKER: Yes, I am.
TROI: So am I.

[Corridor]
KYLE: I'm leaving at twenty one hundred hours. Can I have a minute?

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: I've practiced my best Academy courtesy, now it's time for you to go.
KYLE: It's time for us to have a talk, so lower your shields.
RIKER: I'm asking you to leave, or I'll
KYLE: You'll what? You know, it's a shame there's no anbo-jyutsu ring nearby.
RIKER: Really? There is. Deck Twelve. The gymnasium.
KYLE: We can clear the air once and for all.
RIKER: You're on.

[Doctor's office]
KYLE: Scuttlebutt says you wanted to see me.
PULASKI: That's right. I thought I knew you, Kyle.
KYLE: You do, as well as anyone.
PULASKI: Then what is this I hear about an anbo-jyutsu match with Will?
KYLE: You've heard.
PULASKI: Haven't we grown beyond the point where we resolve our problems with physical conflict?
KYLE: I think you're overreacting.
PULASKI: I'm overreacting? You're the one who's going out to fight with his own son.
KYLE: Don't think of it as a fight, Kate. Think of it as more of a contest.
PULASKI: And suppose one of you is injured?
KYLE: I know where to find a good doctor. Kate
PULASKI: Kyle.
KYLE: Will and I have been playing anbo-jyutsu ever since he was eight old, and he knows how to handle himself. And so do I.
PULASKI: Don't take this personally, but Will is in his prime.
KYLE: And I'm no spring chicken, I know. Don't worry. He's never been able to beat me.

[Holodeck]
DATA: Computer, is this it?
COMPUTER: Correct. Klingon Rite of Ascension Chamber.
LAFORGE: Is this really necessary?
WESLEY: If we want to get Worf through his problem, it is.
DATA: Computer, please give us Klingon personnel appropriate to this event.
DATA: These images are specifically programmed for Ascension rites.
LAFORGE: Cute bunch.
WESLEY: And they use those?
O'BRIEN: Those are Klingon painstiks. I once saw one of them used against a two-ton Rectyne Monopod. Poor creature jumped five meters at the slightest touch. It finally died from excessive cephalic pressures.
WESLEY: You mean?
O'BRIEN: That's right. The animal's head exploded like
PULASKI: I think that's enough, Chief O'Brien.

[Corridor]
WORF: I do not enjoy riddles, Counselor.
TROI: You will enjoy this one.
WORF: I am in no mood for trifling or games, not today.
TROI: I know what an important day this is for you, the anniversary of your Rite of Ascension.
WORF: You know about that?
TROI: All your friends on board do.
WORF: That is impossible. It is a secret known only to Klingons.
TROI: And certain resourceful young Ensigns.
WORF: Wesley Crusher. What does he know about it?
TROI: Just bear with me.
WORF: Where are we going?
TROI: The holodeck.
WORF: This is truly trying my patience, Counselor.
TROI: I think you will approve.
WORF: You're not coming in?
TROI: No.
WORF: Open.

[Holodeck]
WORF: An Ascension ceremony.
LAFORGE: Happy anniversary, Worf.
DATA: Shall we begin?
WORF: I am ready.
WORF: DaHjaj SuvwI''e' jIH. tIgwIj Sa'angNIS. 'Iw bIQtIqDaq jIjaH. Today I am a Warrior. I must show you my heart. I travel the river of blood.
DATA: The true test of Klingon strength is to admit one's most profound feelings while under extreme duress.
WORF: jIbechrup may' vIlos.
WORF: The battle is mine. I crave only the blood of the enemy. HIHIvqa'.
WORF: The bile of the vanquished flows over my hands. May'pequ' moH.
WORF: Thank you.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Is Lieutenant Worf all right?
PULASKI: He's never been happier.
TROI: So it was a good ceremony?
PULASKI: Let's just say that I was not about to stay for refreshments.
TROI: Klingon culture is not in your taste?
PULASKI: I'm just glad that humans have progressed beyond the need for barbaric display.
TROI: Have they? Commander Riker and his father are in the gymnasium, about to engage in barbarism of their own.
PULASKI: Don't remind me. It's something of which I do not approve.
TROI: In spite of human evolution, there are still some traits that are endemic to gender.
PULASKI: You think that they're going to knock each other's brains out because they're men?
TROI: Human males are unique. Fathers continue to regard their sons as children, even into adulthood. And sons continue to chafe against what they perceive as their fathers' expectations of them.
PULASKI: It's almost as if they never really grow up at all, isn't it?
TROI: Perhaps that's part of their charm, and why we find them so attractive.
PULASKI: Particularly men like Commander Riker.
TROI: And his father.
PULASKI: I hope they don't hurt each other.

[Gymnasium]
KYLE: Anbo-jyutsu. The ultimate evolution if the martial arts.
RIKER: I remember my early lessons.
KYLE: You could never get used to the sightless factor, or to losing.
RIKER: True, but I've had fifteen years to practice.
KYLE: Well, let's see if you've learned anything.
BOTH: Onegaishimasu.
KYLE: Well, you've been practicing.
RIKER: And remembering. You should have been the one to die, not her. Yoroshiku-onegaishimasu.
KYLE: Good. Get it all out. Yoroshiku-onegaishimasu.
RIKER: Matta! I had you.
KYLE: Listen, Will. You were too young to understand and I was too hurt to explain.
RIKER: You were never too hurt for anything.
KYLE: She was your mother, but she was my wife. And when she died all that kept me going was you.
RIKER: You had a strange way of showing it.
KYLE: I came here thinking we could talk this out, but maybe you're right. Maybe I am no father, and you're no son. And this this fight is all we have left.
RIKER: Wait!
KYLE: What is it now?
RIKER: You can't do that.
KYLE: What?
RIKER: Hachidan kiritsu! It's illegal.
KYLE: You're kidding?
RIKER: All those years. That's why I never won. You were cheating.
KYLE: It worked, didn't it? Kept you coming back for more.
RIKER: Incredible. You cheated me. How'd you get away with it?
KYLE: You were just a kid. By the time you were twelve years old, I knew I couldn't take you but I had to keep you interested, I had to keep you challenged, didn't I?
RIKER: I always hated you for that.
KYLE: Damn it, Will. You were barely out of diapers when she died. You hardly knew her! I'd loved her. Of course you carried the pain. So did I. I should have explained this to you a long time ago, but it hurt too much. Then the wall grew up between us. And living there, you and me, the wall got bigger. You know, it's funny. I can talk to a whole roomful of admirals about anything in the galaxy, but I can't talk to you about how I feel.
RIKER: How do you feel?
KYLE: How do you think? I love you, son. I've got to get back to the Starbase.
RIKER: I know. I'm glad you came.
KYLE: Be careful now, okay?

[Bridge]
WORF: Starbase Montgomery's briefing specialist and analytical team have beamed down, sir.
PICARD: Ah. What were the analytical team's findings?
LAFORGE: They suggested we reprogram the system to correct the read-out variables.
PICARD: Precisely what Data recommended, as I recall. At least it gave Commander Riker the opportunity to consider his promotion. Now that he's accepted, we can leave him at Starbase Montgomery.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Captain. With your permission, I've decided to stay on board the Enterprise.
PICARD: Granted.
RIKER: Thank you, sir. Take us out of orbit, Ensign Crusher.
WESLEY: Breaking synchronous orbit, sir.
RIKER: Set course for Beta Kupsic. That is still our destination? Velocity, warp factor five.
WESLEY: Course and speed set, sir.
PICARD: Any particular reason for this change of heart?
RIKER: Motivated self-interest. Right now, the best place for me to be is here.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42695.3. We are the first manned vessel to enter the Selcundi Drema sector. Unmanned probes have recorded unusual levels of geological activity in all five planetary systems. I am hoping the Enterprise will find the answer to this enigma.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I've been reviewing the unmanned probe scans. At some point during the last one hundred and fifty years, the fifth planet of Selcundi Drema has shattered, forming an asteroid belt.
RIKER: I'd call that geological instability.
WORF: Is there any indication that this is the work of an unknown intelligence?
RIKER: This is geology, not malevolence. These planets live fast and die hard. The question is, why?

[Corridor]
PICARD: You're sure you won't reconsider?
TROI: No, I'll just watch you and be impressed.
PICARD: An optimistic vote of confidence from a non-rider.
TROI: You know, I never particularly thought of you as an animal person.
PICARD: Small animals, no, but horses. Computer, program the holodeck for a woodland setting, with a bridle path and an appropriate mount.
COMPUTER: Type of mount? Andorian Zabathu, Klingon Sark
PICARD: Horse. Earth horse.
COMPUTER: Breed?
PICARD: Arabian. The Arabs believed that Allah gathered the south wind and made the horse.
TROI: On the holodeck we've made that legend come true.
PICARD: I like that. Oh yes, computer, English tack, and I will control the animal myself.
COMPUTER: Enter when ready.

[Meadow]
TROI: So you like horses for the romance?
PICARD: It goes deeper than that. A fine war mare would sleep in a bedouin's tent, carry him into battle, feed his children with her milk. There's a bond which is created by mutual need. Hello, beautiful.
TROI: Now I understand. You don't want the comfort of a pet, you want a companion.
PICARD: Thank you. I don't want to anthropomorphise anything. I seems that some creatures have the capacity to fill spaces you never knew were empty.
TROI: I had a Betazoid kitten once. My mother and the cat reacted badly to one another.
PICARD: Sure you don't want to try? It's very relaxing. We can find you something that will be quiet and gentle.
TROI: No, I prefer a mode of transportation that doesn't have a mind of its own.
PICARD: Strange. I would expect Betazoids to be outstanding animal trainers.
TROI: We become too involved in the thoughts and shifting passions of the beast. We lose our way and get swept up in emotion.
PICARD: I should think the shifting passions of this beast would be far more terrifying.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Number One?

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've entered the first system. I think you might want to come to the Bridge.

[Meadow]
PICARD: Something interesting?
RIKER (voiceover): Spectacular. And a little terrifying.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The first long range reading. Magnification ten to the sixth.
PICARD: Quite impressive.
RIKER: And deadly. The last unmanned probe showed a thriving ecozystem. Now there's nothing.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: This is Commander Riker's meeting.
RIKER: I'll need your advice and recommendations. As you know, I've been given the responsibility of overseeing Wesley's education. To further that goal, I would like to put him in charge of the planetary mineral surveys.
PULASKI: It's a big job with a lot of responsibility.
RIKER: The game isn't big enough unless it scares you a little.
LAFORGE: To do the job, Wesley's going to need a team. It takes command presence to lead. Do you think he's ready for that?
TROI: Leadership grows from self-confidence, which is also part of a Starfleet officer's education.
PICARD: All of this is true, but there is an old horse trainer's adage about putting too much weight on a young back. We don't want him to break under pressure.
PULASKI: We seem to be shifting the focus here. Are we talking about a young officer on the fast track to the Academy, or are we talking about a young man that we are guiding through adolescence and into adulthood?
TROI: You can't guide someone into adulthood. The experiences are unique to each person. Whether Wes succeeds or fails, he will learn from the experience.
PULASKI: I agree. I'm just questioning the speed at which we're moving.
LAFORGE: You think we're pushing him too hard?
PULASKI: I think that's a valid concern.
PICARD: Tempering is taken to extremes.
PULASKI: He is a boy, not a sword.
PICARD: Who will one day be a man and, to extend the metaphor, will need a fine edge that won't dull at the first touch of resistance.
RIKER: Sooner or later he'll have to feel the burden of command. Ensign Crusher.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Report to the Observation Lounge.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Wesley, I've assigned you the command of the planetary mineral surveys.
WESLEY: Sir? Thank you, sir.
RIKER: You may not thank me once you see how much work it entails. Assemble a team, and take a look at the records on the Drema quadrant. There's a mystery here. We've got to solve it.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. A team, sir?
PICARD: Ensign, this is a serious responsibility.
WESLEY: I know, sir.
PICARD: These officers are here to assist you. Not judge, help you. You should make use of them. They are a valuable resource. And by the way, I respect an officer who is prepared to admit ignorance and ask a question, rather than one who out of pride will blunder blindly forward.
WESLEY: I understand, sir.
RIKER: Ensign. You're dismissed.
WESLEY: I'll try not to disappoint you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Is this part of your regular duties?
DATA: No, it is a personal project. I have reset the sensors to scan for frequencies outside their usual range.
WORF: Such as?
DATA: The dips and peaks of the galaxy's magnetic field, organic molecules in nebular clouds, energetic cosmic rays.
WORF: Interesting. Would these scans also detect artificial transmissions as well as naturally occurring signals?
DATA: Of course.
WORF: Good.
DATA: Those signals are very faint and difficult to distinguish from background noise. That is why I am boosting the power.
DATA: I will be removing that equipment to my quarters.
WORF: Good.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Hi. Can I walk with you?
TROI: Yes.
WESLEY: I need a little advice.
RIKER: Well, it's free.
WESLEY: Walking or advice?
RIKER: Both.
WESLEY: It's about my team. I'm considering so many factors I'm confusing myself.
TROI: What have you done so far?
WESLEY: Well, I've broken down the task and picked the best people in those disciplines.
RIKER: So who have you got so far?
WESLEY: I've got Prixus in mineralogy and metallurgy, Alans and Hildebrandt for volcanology and geomechanics. I want Davies for geochemistry, but
TROI: But they're all much older than you are.
WESLEY: Right, and it makes me feel strange. What do I do about personality conflicts?
RIKER: Completely irrelevant. These people are professionals. If there's a personality conflict, you're in charge, you settle it.
WESLEY: So you not only have to understand the job, you also have to be a ship's Counselor.
TROI: Sometimes.
WESLEY: Well, thank you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42696.3. We are entering the second Selcundi star system, where acting Ensign Crusher will begin his planetary mineral survey. The results of which may help unlock the geological puzzle.

[Geophysics lab]
WESLEY: Ensign Davies?
DAVIES: You got him.
WESLEY: Wesley Crusher. I've been put in charge of the planetary geological surveys, and I'd like to have you on the team.
DAVIES: Sounds great. Who else is on it?
WESLEY: I have Prixus and Alans and Hildebrandt.
DAVIES: It's a shame you didn't talk to me first. It's just personal opinion, but I like to break up married teams.
WESLEY: I hadn't thought of that.
DAVIES: Don't worry, they'll probably work out fine. And if you need any help, just give me a signal and I'll take over for you. We don't want you to get too beat up on your first command.
WESLEY: Thanks, but I'm pretty sure I'll be all right.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Computer, identify please.
COMPUTER: Sensors indicate low-level rf waves.
DATA: Is there a pattern?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
DATA: Naturally occurring?
COMPUTER: Negative.
DATA: Key universal translator, please.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Weak signal.
DATA: Lock on comm. link and boost.
COMPUTER: Lock on complete.
DATA: Read, please.
COMPUTER: Insufficient signal strength.
DATA: Enhance, please.
SARJENKA (voiceover): Is anybody out there?
DATA: Yes.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Wes?
WESLEY: Hi, Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: You have trouble behind that door?
WESLEY: My team's in there. I've got to assign planets, set a schedule.
PULASKI: It sounds like you've got everything under control.
WESLEY: I haven't had to deal with them yet. Not together, not professionally.
PULASKI: Wes, the minute you walk through that door they're your team. You have nothing to prove. You've got the authority.
WESLEY: That's just 'cos Commander Riker says I do.
PULASKI: It's up to you to hang on to it. Now, you'd better get in there, and Wes, for whatever it's worth, I think you're going to do just fine.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42737.3. It has been six weeks since our entrance into the Selcundi Drema sector. Each system has revealed the same disturbing geological upheavals on every planet.

[Geophysics lab]
HILDEBRANDT: It seems to be at this point we can expect the greatest tectonic stresses.
WESLEY: I agree. Nice job.
DAVIES: Here are the results of my scan on the third Selcundi system. It's just the same old song.
WESLEY: Didn't you tell me that UV absorptions like these are indicative of traker deposits?
DAVIES: And where there's traker there's generally dilithium? Yes, I did.
WESLEY: So don't you think we ought to run an ico-spectrogram?
DAVIES: Well, Wes, these traker readings are really faint. It's probably just a fool's echo.
WESLEY: I think I'd still run an ico-gram.
HILDEBRANDT: Wesley, it's a major undertaking to set up the scanner.
DAVIES: We're looking at five hours minimum.
WESLEY: I know, I know. I don't want to do a half way job.
DAVIES: Wes, there's being thorough and then there's wasting time. It's also the mark of a good officer to recognize the difference.
WESLEY: Maybe you're right.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, please access all volcanic and tectonic plate activity in Drema Four.
COMPUTER: Accessing.
DATA: Computer, locate Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is on holodeck three.

[Meadow]
PICARD: Data?
DATA: An excellent steed, sir. Sorry to disturb you, Captain.
PICARD: It's quite all right. It must be important, or you wouldn't be here.
DATA: Yes, sir, it is important. Very. Eight weeks ago I received a transmission, a simple four word message, 'Is anybody out there?' I answered it.
PICARD: There is a loneliness inherent in that whisper from the darkness.
DATA: Yes, sir. I am glad that you understand, sir.
PICARD: But it didn't end there.
DATA: No, sir. We speak often. It is a young female, humanoid.
PICARD: Her society is aware that there is interstellar life?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Oops. Just where does she think you're calling from?
DATA: I have kept that somewhat vague, sir, but Sarjenka, that is her name, has been quite specific, telling me details of her family and friends. And interspersed among these confidences have been some alarming references.
PICARD: Go on.
DATA: Drema Four has been enduring the same geological stresses we have found in the other systems.
PICARD: Then your friend is in trouble.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What are you proposing?
DATA: If we can determine the cause of these geological disturbances, we might be able to reverse the process.
PICARD: Violate the Prime Directive?
DATA: I was hoping that you might have another option, sir.
PICARD: We don't even know if this catastrophe is preventable. Call a conference in my quarters. All senior staff.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And Data, all communication with this life form must cease.
DATA: Yes, sir. I understand, sir.

[Ten forward]
RIKER: Seeing the look on his face. I'll get you another drink. Two more.
RIKER: Thank you.
RIKER: Family emergency. You don't look like a person who came here to relax.
WESLEY: I didn't. I need your advice. Yesterday, when Ensign Davies turned in his geological survey, I asked him to run an ico-spectrogram. He didn't agree.
RIKER: Do you think you were right?
WESLEY: Yes. I guess. I could have just been picking nits.
RIKER: Or you could have been intimidated. It's tough to tell other people what to do.
WESLEY: I suppose I could have made it an order, but how do you give orders to somebody older and more experienced then you?
RIKER: The difference in ages between you and Davies is not the issue here.
WESLEY: I guess not.
RIKER: Do you think it might have something to do with ego?
WESLEY: No, it's just the opposite of ego. Every time I try to give an order, something inside me says, what makes my judgment so superior to these people's?
RIKER: Wes, responsibility and authority go hand in hand. I know you're responsible, now we've got to teach you a little bit of authority. One of the reasons you've been given command is so you can make a few right decisions, that will establish a pattern of success and help build self-confidence. If you don't trust your own judgment, you don't belong in the command chair.
WESLEY: But what if I'm wrong?
RIKER: Then you're wrong. It's arrogant to think you'll never make a mistake.
WESLEY: But what if it's something really important. I mean, not just a mineral survey. What if someone dies because I made a mistake?
RIKER: In your position, it's important to ask yourself one question. What would Picard do?
WESLEY: He'd listen to everyone's opinion, then make his own decision. But he's Captain Picard.
RIKER: Well it doesn't matter. Once Picard makes his decision, does anyone question it?
WESLEY: No way.
RIKER: And why not?
WESLEY: I'm not sure.
DATA (voiceover): Commander Riker, report to the Captain's quarters.
RIKER: When you figure it out, you'll understand command. I'm on my way. I hope I've been able to help. You let me know what you decide?
WESLEY: I've made my decision. I'm going to have Davies run that ico-gram. Thank you, sir.
RIKER: You're welcome. I'll see you later)
WOMAN: Okay.

[Geophysics lab]
WESLEY: Ensign Davies? I want that ico-spectrogram run on the Selcundi Drema system.
DAVIES: You got it.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: It is no longer a matter of how wrong Data was, or why he did it. The dilemma exists. We have to discuss the options. And please talk freely.
WORF: There are no options. The Prime Directive is not a matter of degrees. It is an absolute.
PULASKI: I have a problem with that kind of rigidity. It seems callous and even a little cowardly.
PICARD: Doctor, I'm sure that is not what the Lieutenant meant, but in a situation like this, we have to be cautious. What we do today may profoundly affect upon the future. If we could see every possible outcome
RIKER: We'd be gods, which we're not. If there is a cosmic plan, is it not the height of hubris to think that we can, or should, interfere?
LAFORGE: So what are you saying? That the Dremans are fated to die?
RIKER: I think that's an option we should be considering.
LAFORGE: Consider it considered, and rejected.
TROI: If there is a cosmic plan, are we not a part of it? Our presence at this place at this moment in time could be a part of that fate.
LAFORGE: Right, and it could be part of that plan that we interfere.
RIKER: Well that eliminates the possibility of fate.
DATA: But Commander, the Dremans are not a subject for philosophical debate. They are a people.
PICARD: So we make an exception in the deaths of millions.
PULASKI: Yes.
PICARD: And is it the same situation if it's an epidemic, and not a geological calamity?
PULASKI: Absolutely.
PICARD: How about a war? If generations of conflict is killing millions, do we interfere? Ah, well, now we're all a little less secure in our moral certitude. And what if it's not just killings. If an oppressive government is enslaving millions? You see, the Prime Directive has many different functions, not the least of which is to protect us. To prevent us from allowing our emotions to overwhelm our judgment.
PULASKI: My emotions are involved. Data's friend is going to die. That means something.
WORF: To Data.
PULASKI: Does that invalidate the emotion?
LAFORGE: What if the Dremans asked for our help?
DATA: Yes. Sarjenka's transmission could be viewed as a call for help.
PICARD: Sophistry.
PULASKI: I'll buy that excuse. We're all jigging madly on the head of a pin anyway.
WORF: She cannot ask for help from someone she does not know.
DATA: She knows me.
RIKER: What a perfectly vicious little circle.
DATA: We are going to allow her to die, are we not?
PICARD: Data, I want you to sever the contact with Drema Four.
COMPUTER: Isolating frequency.
SARJENKA (voiceover): Data. Data, where are you? Why won't you answer? Are you angry me? Please, please, I'm so afraid. Data, Data, where are you?
PICARD: Wait. Oh, Data. Your whisper from the dark has now become a plea. We cannot turn our backs.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42741.3. We are entering into orbit of Drema Four, the planet from which Data received the distress signal. Sensors indicate that the volcanic activity is increasing.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We found the reason for the geological instability.
PICARD: Excellent.
DAVIES: We would have missed it if Ensign Crusher hadn't requested an ico-gram, but he did, and
WESLEY: Drema Four has the largest deposit of dilithium ore ever recorded. It's also laid down in a very unusual pattern. The crystals are growing to form perfectly aligned lattices.
HILDEBRANDT: The ore is forming generator strata.
ALANS: Which creates a piezoelectric effect.
PICARD: In plain English, you're saying the dilithium is causing the geological catastrophe.
ALANS: Right, the crystals take the natural radiant heat of the planet
HILDEBRANDT: Focus it, and turn it into mechanical energy.
ALANS: Which increases tectonic stresses
HILDEBRANDT: That tear the planet apart.
DAVIES: And then the crystals break down, which is why we found all these traces of illium 629.
PICARD: So that takes care of the why. Now, what can you do?
WESLEY: That is going to take a little more work.
PICARD: Can you reverse the process?
WESLEY: We think so.
PICARD: No. No theories, no half answers. Yes or no?
HILDEBRANDT: We'll get to work on it.
RIKER: Sir, Data's out there right now, monitoring the conditions on Drema Four. The situation's become pretty desperate for his friend. He's calculated the safest location on the planet's surface. You can guess why.
PICARD: We're just keep getting deeper and deeper in, aren't we?
RIKER: She's going to die. They're all going to die.
PICARD: Unless.
RIKER: Yes. Unless.
PICARD: All right, you can tell Commander Data he has my permission to contact his friend and conduct her to a safer location. Number One, you know where we are now?
RIKER: Sir?

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Sarjenka, this is Data. Respond please.
COMPUTER: Unable to complete transmission.
DATA: Reason for failure?
COMPUTER: Atmospheric activity interfering with RF signal.

[Ready room]
WORF: We're modifying class one probes so they become resonators. We will then use torpedo casings to protect them once they begin burrowing beneath the surface.
PICARD: How will these resonators destroy the crystals?
HILDEBRANDT: By emitting harmonic vibrations which will shatter the lattices.
WORF: The Enterprise will monitor and adjust the frequency of the resonators.
RIKER: Sounds like a plan. Lets get started.
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Tea, Earl Gray, hot.
DATA: Captain, permission to beam down to Drema Four.
PICARD: What?
DATA: I have been unable to contact Sarjenka.
PICARD: Data, I appreciate your concern. Transporting to the surface is only going to make a bad situation worse.
DATA: Sir, I feel it is important to determine the reason for
RIKER: Come on, Data.
DATA: Captain, your orders were to deliver the message, correct?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA: Then what is the difference between sending the message and delivering it personally?
RIKER: A whopping big one, and you know it.
DATA: Sir, we have come this far.
PICARD: In for a penny, in for a pound, is that what you're saying, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Oh, hell. Go.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Number One, handle the transporter. Go.
RIKER: Where would you say we are now, sir?

[Transporter room]
RIKER: O'Brien, take a nap. You didn't see any of this. You're not involved.
O'BRIEN: Right, sir. I'll just standing over here, dozing off.
RIKER: Data, you've got ten minutes. That's it. If you meet anybody but Sarjenka
DATA: I will signal for immediate beam out.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker to the Bridge.
RIKER: Damn.
O'BRIEN: I just woke up, sir.
RIKER: You know what to do?
O'BRIEN: No problem, sir. I'll have him out of there as smooth as ice.

[Sarjenka's house]
DATA: Sarjenka? Wait! I'm Data.
SARJENKA: Data. Data, you came. Data, where have you been?
DATA: It would take too long to explain. You and your family must leave.
SARJENKA: We already have. We ran when the tremors began.
DATA: Then why are you here?
SARJENKA: My father wouldn't let us take anything, but I had to have my transmitter. I knew you would come back, and I didn't want you to find only silence, the way I did.
DATA: I am sorry for that, but it is very complicated. Does your family know where you are?
SARJENKA: No.
DATA: You cannot survive in this.
SARJENKA: What are we going to do?
DATA: Enterprise, two to beam up. You must come with me.
SARJENKA: Where are we going? To the stars?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: There's going to be hell to pay.
DATA: Where is Commander Riker?
O'BRIEN: On the Bridge. Where are you going?
DATA: To the Bridge.
O'BRIEN: And you're going to take that?
SARJENKA: Don't leave me here. Please don't leave me.
DATA: Quite impossible.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, three minutes to resonator launch.
PICARD: Where is he?
RIKER: He'll be here.
PICARD: He has brought a child onto my ship and on my Bridge.
RIKER: I'm sure Mister Data has a very good explanation.
DATA: I do, sir. She was frightened and did not wish to be left alone
PICARD: Mister Data, kindly assume your station. Counselor, will you escort her to Sickbay.
SARJENKA: No, Data, no. I'm scared. Don't make me go.
TROI: It's all right, no one's going to hurt you.
SARJENKA: No!
TROI: We'll just go and get a treat, and then
SARJENKA: No.
DATA: Captain, I will see to it that she is not in the way.
WORF: One minute to launch.
TROI: Come on, it'll be all right.
SARJENKA: No. Just leave me alone. I want Data.
DATA: Counselor, allow me. Please. Sarjenka, no one will harm you. These are my friends.
PICARD: Mister Data, take your station and keep her with you. This does concern her.
WORF: Ten seconds.
DATA: I will require my hand. Thank you.
WORF: Firing torpedoes.
DATA: Sensors locked on probes.
WORF: Torpedoes have reached their targets.
DATA: Resonators activated. Harmonic sequences have begun.
SARJENKA: What are you doing?
DATA: We are attempting to quiet your planet. If we succeed, there will be no more quakes, no more volcanoes.
PICARD: Ensign, when should the results be known?
WESLEY: They should happen very quickly, sir.
SARJENKA: And my parents and brothers?
DATA: Captain, sensors indicate a planetwide reduction in tectonic stress levels.
WESLEY: It worked. We did it.
DATA: Your parents will be safe now.
SARJENKA: You did this for me?
DATA: Look, Sarjenka, there is your home.
PICARD: Data, escort her to Sickbay.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Doctor.
PULASKI (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Data and the alien are on their way down. What would be involved in removing all memory of her communication with Data

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD (voiceover): And her visit to this ship?
PULASKI: Assuming her brain structure is similar to ours, the memories would be stored chemically on the neurons of the cerebral cortex. They're also time dependent. I would have to scan for age of the chemical links, and try to find

[Ready room]
PULASKI (voiceover): The relevant neurons.
PICARD: Well, do your best.

[Corridor]
SARJENKA: You have many different kinds of people here.
DATA: Yes.
SARJENKA: When I am bigger, can I be on your ship?
DATA: I am certain that you could.
SARJENKA: I wish I could come with you now.
DATA: I am afraid that is not possible.
SARJENKA: I know, but I can still wish for it.

[Pulaski's office]
DATA: Doctor Pulaski, this is Sarjenka.
PULASKI: Hello, Sarjenka.
SARJENKA: Hello.
SARJENKA: What is this?
PULASKI: An Elanin singer stone. It sings a different song for each person.
SARJENKA: What does it sing for you?
DATA: It does not sing for me.
SARJENKA: Why not?
DATA: Because I am a machine.
PULASKI: Sarjenka, we're going to run a few scans just to be sure you're all right. Data's will be right here. Don't worry.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: You did a good thing, Data.
DATA: But are we doing a good thing now, Doctor?
PULASKI: This is to protect her as much as us.
DATA: By robbing her of her memories?
PULASKI: To remember you and this ship would complicate her future. She has to be the person she was born to be. And you'll remember.

[Sarjenka's house]
DATA: Enterprise, one to beam up.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Wes. Sit down.
WESLEY: No, thank you, sir. It's going to be a long time before I'm qualified enough to sit here.
RIKER: You did a good job. I'm proud of you.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. Does it get any easier?
RIKER: No.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: I came to apologize, sir.
PICARD: No apologies are necessary. You reminded us that there are obligations that go beyond duty.
DATA: I appreciate your seeking other options, sir. Your decision could have been unilateral.
PICARD: One of my officers, one of my friends, was troubled. I had to help. Is Sarjenka safely home?
DATA: Yes, sir. She will not remember me, sir, but I will remember her.
PICARD: Remembrance and regrets, they too are a part of friendship.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And understanding that has brought you a step closer to understanding humanity.

[Engineering]
SONYA: Hot chocolate, please.
LAFORGE: We don't ordinarily say please to food dispensers around here.
SONYA: Well, since it's listed as intelligent circuitry, why not? After all, working with so much artificial intelligence can be dehumanizing, right? So why not combat that tendency with a little simple courtesy. Thank you.
LAFORGE: For someone who just arrived, you certainly aren't shy with your opinions.
SONYA: Have I been talking too much?
LAFORGE: No.
SONYA: Oh, I do tend to have a bit of a motor mouth, especially when I'm excited. A nd you don't know how exciting it is to get this assignment. Everyone in class, I mean everyone, wants the Enterprise. I mean, it would have been all right to spend some time on Reiner Six doing phase work with anti-matter. That's my specialty.
LAFORGE: I know. That's why you got this assignment.
SONYA: I did it again. It's just that
LAFORGE: I know, you're excited. Look, Sonya.
SONYA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I don't think you want to be around these control stations with that hot chocolate, do you?
SONYA: Oh, I'm sorry. I shouldn't even have this in Engineering. It's just we were talking and I forgot I had it in my hand. I'm going to go finish it over here. Lieutenant La Forge? This is not going to happen again.
SONYA: Oh, no! Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, Captain.
LAFORGE: Actually it's my fault, sir.
PICARD: Indeed.
SONYA: Oh, I wasn't looking. It's all over you.
PICARD: Yes, Ensign. It's all over me.
SONYA: At least let me, sir.
PICARD: Ensign er, Ensign?
SONYA: Oh, Ensign Sonya Gomez.
LAFORGE: Ensign Gomez is a recent Academy graduate. She just transferred over at Starbase One Seventy Three.
PICARD: Is that so? Well, Ensign Sonya Gomez, I think it will be simpler if I simply change my uniform.
LAFORGE: Captain, I must accept responsibility for this.
PICARD: Yes, Chief Engineer. I think I understand.
SONYA: I just want to say, sir, that I'm very excited about this assignment and I promise to serve you and my ship, your ship, this ship, to the best of my ability.
PICARD: Yes, Ensign, I'm sure that you will. Carry on.
SONYA: Oh, my. First impressions, right? Isn't that what they say? First impressions are the most important.
LAFORGE: I'll give you this. It's a meeting the Captain won't soon forget.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck nine. Officers' quarters.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Crewman? What is going on?
Q: Welcome, Picard, to shuttlecraft six.
PICARD: Q.
Q: There, there, haven't we been careless. A little cleaning service I'm only too than happy to provide.
PICARD: We agreed you would never trouble my ship again!
Q: I always keep my arrangements, sir. Look, we're nowhere near your vessel.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I read your graduating thesis. Now, I wouldn't have requested you if you weren't the best.
SONYA: Where are we going?
LAFORGE: Ten Forward. We're going to forget about work. We are going to sit, talk, relax, look at the stars. You need to learn how to slow down.
SONYA: Oh, no, no, no, no, no. I can't do.
LAFORGE: You know, you're awfully young to be so driven.
SONYA: Yes, I am. I had to be. I had to be the best because only the best get to be here. Geordi, Lieutenant
LAFORGE: It's okay. Go on.
SONYA: Whatever is out here, we're going to be the first humans to see it. And I want to be a part of that. I want to understand it.
LAFORGE: Sonya, relax. You're here. You've made it. But you won't last long banging into walls. It'll be there for you, believe me.
SONYA: Okay.
LAFORGE: Look, I promise I won't let anything exciting slip past without letting you know, okay?
SONYA: Okay.
LAFORGE: Okay.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Bridge, this is Ten Forward.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Guinan? I don't remember you ever calling the Bridge before.
GUINAN (voiceover): Is everything alright?
RIKER: How do you mean?
GUINAN (voiceover): Is there anything unusual happening?
RIKER: No Guinan, nothing out of the ordinary. Why do you ask?

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: I'm not sure. It's just a feeling. I've had it a couple of times before. It's probably nothing. Forget that I called. Ten Forward out.

[Shuttlecraft]
Q: The locator beacon won't help. They'll never think to look for you this far away.
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Stop this foolishness, Q. Return me to the Enterprise.
Q: I suggest you change your attitude. Petulance does not become you. We have business, Picard.
PICARD: Keeping me a prisoner here will not compel me to discuss anything with you.
Q: It will in time.

[Ten forward]
SONYA: I appreciate your advice, Lieutenant. And, I'll take it to heart.
LAFORGE: Guinan?
GUINAN: Can I get you something?
LAFORGE: We're fine. Is everything all right?
GUINAN: I don't know.
LAFORGE: I think I'll go check out Engineering.
SONYA: I'll go with you.

[Bridge]
TROI: Where's the Captain?
RIKER: In his quarters?
TROI: Captain, this is Counselor Troi.
RIKER: Computer locate Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: The Captain is not on the ship.
WORF: Commander, there is a shuttle missing from bay two.
RIKER: All stop.
WESLEY: Answering all stop, sir.
WORF: I have hailed the shuttle on all frequencies. No response.
DATA: Sensors indicate no shuttle or other ships in this sector.
RIKER: We think we can assume the Captain is aboard that shuttle.
WESLEY: How could he get to the shuttlebay and leave the Enterprise without us knowing? That's not possible.
RIKER: Take it easy, Wes. We're going to find him. I want to begin a methodical search. Worf, set sensors on maximum scan. Data, use our present location as a center. Plot a search pattern from these coordinates to cover the most area in the least time.
DATA: Search pattern has been input, sir.
RIKER: Engage, Mister Crusher. First officer's log, stardate 42761.3. We have not been able to determine why, or how, Captain Picard left the Enterprise. We can't even be certain he is in the missing shuttle, although that is the assumption on which we are proceeding. For the last six hours, we have been searching without success.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have covered the area in a spherical pattern which a vessel without warp drive could traverse in the time allotted.
RIKER: Widen the area.

[Shuttlecraft]
Q: Do we stay out here years? Decades? I am ageless, Picard. You are not.
PICARD: The Enterprise will continue with Riker as Captain.
Q: You are an impossibly stubborn human.
PICARD: Return me to my ship!
Q: If I return you to your ship, will you agree to give my request a full hearing?

[Ten forward]
Q: You're right Picard. This is the proper venue for our discussion.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander. My status board indicates that the shuttle is back in bay two.
RIKER: Computer, locate Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Ten Forward.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: I knew it was you.
Q: You! Picard, if you had half the sense you pretend to have, you would get her off your ship immediately. And if you like, I'd be more than pleased to expedite her departure.
PICARD: You know him?
GUINAN: We have had some dealings.
Q: Those dealings were two centuries ago. This creature is not what she appears to be. She's an imp, and where she goes, trouble always follows.
PICARD: You're speaking of yourself, Q, not Guinan.
Q: Guinan? Is that your name now?
PICARD: Guinan is not the issue here. You are. We had an agreement that you would stop meddling with us.
Q: And so I have.
PICARD: What do you want, Q? You state your business. Get on with it.
Q: I agree, Captain. Enough about this creature. She's diverting us from the purpose of my being here.
RIKER: Which is?
Q: Ah, the redoubtable Commander Riker. And Micro-brain. Growl for me. Let me know you still care.
PICARD: Worf.
Q: My purpose is to join you.
RIKER: To join us as what?
Q: As a member of the crew. Willing and able. Ready to serve. This ship is already home for the indigent, the unwanted, the unworthy. Why not for a homeless entity.
RIKER: Homeless?
Q: Yes.
RIKER: The other members of the Q continuum kicked you out.
GUINAN: Not all the Q are alike. Some are almost respectable.
PICARD: Ready and willing. Able to serve. What would you do? Would you start as an ordinary crewman? What task is too menial for an entity?
Q: Sir, do you mock me?
PICARD: Not at all. That's the last thing I would do. You, by definition, are part of our charter. Our mission is to go forth to seek out new and different life forms, and you certainly qualify as one of the most unique I've ever encountered. To learn about you is, frankly, provocative. But you're next of kin to chaos.
Q: Captain, at least allow me to present my argument.
PICARD: Worf.
Q: After our last encounter, I was asked to leave the Q Continuum. Since then, I've been wandering vaguely, bored really, my existence without purpose. Then I remembered all the good times I had with you.
RIKER: The good times? The first time we met you, you put us on trial for the crimes of humanity.
Q: Of which you were exonerated.
RIKER: The next time we saw you, you asked me to join the Q Continuum.
Q: A big mistake that you did not accept my offer. More and more I realize that here, here is where I want to be. Think of the advantages. Now, I neither expect nor require any special treatment. And if necessary, although I can't imagine why, I will renounce my powers and become as weak and incompetent as all of you.
PICARD: No.
Q: No? Oh, Captain, in fairness, let me try, I deserve at least that much.
RIKER: In fairness? You disrupt this ship, you kidnap the Captain.
Q: I add a little excitement, a little spice to your lives, and all you do is complain. Where's your adventurous spirit, your imagination. Think, Picard, think. Think of the possibilities.
PICARD: Simply speaking, we don't trust you.
Q: Oh. Well, you may not trust me, but you do need me. You're not prepared for what awaits you.
PICARD: How can we be prepared for that which we do not know? But I do know that we are ready to encounter it.
Q: Really?
PICARD: yes. Absolutely. That's why we're out here.
Q: Oh, the arrogance. They don't have a clue as to what's out here.
GUINAN: But they will learn, adapt. That is their greatest advantage.
Q: They're moving faster than expected, further than they should.
PICARD: By whose calculations?
Q: You judge yourselves against the pitiful adversaries you have encountered so far. The Romulans, the Klingons. They are nothing compared to what's waiting. Picard, you are about to move into areas of the galaxy containing wonders more incredible than you can possibly imagine, and terrors to freeze your soul. I offer myself as guide only to be rejected out of hand.
RIKER: We'll just have to do the best we can without you.
Q: What justifies that smugness?
PICARD: Not smugness, not arrogance. But we are resolute, we are determined, and your help is not required.
Q: We'll just have to see how ready you are.
GUINAN: Q!
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. All stop.
WESLEY (voiceover): Answering all stop, sir.
PICARD: Status?

[Bridge]
DATA: According to these coordinates, we have traveled seven thousand light years

[Ten Forward]
DATA (voiceover): And are located near the system J two five.
RIKER: Travel time to the nearest starbase?
DATA (voiceover): At maximum warp, in two years, seven months, three days, eighteen hours we would reach Starbase one eight five.
RIKER: Why?
Q: Why? Why, to give you a taste of your future, a preview of things to come. Con permiso, Capitan. The hall is rented, the orchestra engaged. It's now time to see if you can dance.
PICARD: Guinan, your people have been in this part of the galaxy.
GUINAN: Yes.
RIKER: What can you tell us?
GUINAN: Only that if I were you, I'd start back now.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42761.9. Despite Guinan's warning, I feel compelled to investigate this unexplored sector of the galaxy before heading back.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the sixth planet in the system is Class M.
DATA: There is a system of roads on this planet, which indicates a highly industrialized civilization. But where there should be cities there are only great rips in the surface.
WORF: It is as though some great force just scooped all the machine elements off the face of the planet.
DATA: It is identical to what happened to the outposts along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Captain, we are being probed.
RIKER: What is the source of the probe?
WORF: A ship. It is on an intercept course.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: Full scan.
PICARD: Go to Yellow Alert.
WORF: Going to Yellow Alert.
RIKER: Keep the shields down. We don't want to appear provocative.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, what can you tell us?
DATA: The ship is strangely generalized in design. There is no specific bridge, no command center. There is no engineering section. I can identify no living quarters.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: There is no indication of life.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, what is its alert status?
WORF: I detect no shields, no weapons of any known design.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard representing the United Federation of Planets. Guinan.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD (voiceover): Activate your viewscreen. I would like you to monitor what's going on up here. I may need your input.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: I'm here, Captain.

[Bridge]
GUINAN (voiceover): Viewscreen's activated. I have the other ship.
PICARD: You're familiar with this life form?
GUINAN (voiceover): Yes.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: My people encountered them a century ago. They destroyed our cities

[Bridge]
GUINAN (voiceover): They scattered my people throughout the galaxy.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: They're called the Borg. Protect yourself, Captain, or they'll destroy you.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): All decks, stand by.
LAFORGE: Security, report to main Engineering. We have an intruder.
PICARD: Lieutenant? Status.
LAFORGE: It seemed to make a visual survey of the engine core, sir, then it moved in here.
Q: Interesting, isn't it? Not a he, not a she. Not like anything you've ever seen. An enhanced humanoid.
PICARD: What is it you want? We mean you no harm. Do you understand me?
Q: Understand you? You're nothing to him. He's not interested in your life form. He's just a scout, the first of many. He's here to analyze your technology. He may attempt to gain control of the ship. I wouldn't let him.
PICARD: Stop! I cannot allow you to interfere with the operation of this ship. Mister Worf.
WORF: Ensign.
PICARD: Mister Worf, use whatever means to neutralize the intruder.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Because her people had contact with the Borg, I have requested Guinan to participate in this conference. You are aware of what occurred just now in main Engineering.
GUINAN: Yes.
PICARD: What happened between your people and the Borg?
GUINAN: I wasn't there personally, but from what I'm told, they swarmed through our system. And when they left, there was little or nothing left of my people.
RIKER: Guinan, if they were that aggressive, why didn't the Borg attack? They could have but they didn't.
GUINAN: They don't do that individually. It's not their way. When they decide to come, they're going to come in force. They don't do anything piecemeal.
DATA: Then the initial encounter was solely for the purpose of gathering information.
GUINAN: Yes.
PICARD: How do we reason with them? Let them know that we are not a threat?
GUINAN: You don't. At least, I've never known anyone who did.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, we are being hailed.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the
BORG: We have analyzed your defensive capabilities as being unable to withstand us. If you defend yourselves, you will be punished.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: We're not dealing with an individual mind. They don't have a single leader. It's the collective minds of all of them.
PICARD: That would have definite advantages.
TROI: Yes, A single leader can make mistakes. It's far less likely in the combined whole.
Q (screen): Picard. Picard, are you sure you don't want me as a member of your crew?
WORF (voiceover): Captain, the Borg have locked on to us with some form of tractor beam.
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Lieutenant.
WORF: The beam is draining our shields.
RIKER: If they pull down our shields, we're helpless.
PICARD: Warp eight, any heading. Engage.
WESLEY: Captain, the beam is holding us here.
RIKER: Increase power!
WORF: Shields weakening.
DATA: Shields will be down in eighteen seconds.
PICARD: Locate the exact source of the tractor beam. Lock on phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They still have us.
DATA: Shields are down, sir.
WORF: A type of laser beam is slicing into the saucer section.
RIKER: Carving us up like a roast.
PICARD: With whatever force necessary, terminate that beam. Fire when ready.
PICARD: Again, Mister Worf.
DATA: Tractor beam is released, sir. Force field is maintaining our hull integrity.
RIKER: Damage report?
WORF: Coming in, sir. Sections twenty seven, twenty eight, twenty nine on decks four, five and six destroyed.
PICARD: Casualties?
WORF: Eighteen were in those sections and are missing.
PICARD: What is the condition of the alien ship?
WORF: They have sustained damage to twenty percent of their vessel. Life support minimal.
PICARD: Conference.

[Engineering]
SONYA: I can't get the shields up.
LAFORGE: Divert power from anywhere you need it. Anywhere except for life support.
SONYA: No, it wouldn't help. The circuits which control the shields, they've been fused.
LAFORGE: If you can't reprogram, then reroute.
SONYA: Eighteen people. Dead, just like that.
LAFORGE: I know. Just put it out of your head.
SONYA: No, I can't. I keep seeing them.
LAFORGE: Sonya, stop it. We'll have time to grieve later. Right now, let's just get those shields operative.
SONYA: Right, right, of course.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Guinan, how much more can you tell us about these creatures?
GUINAN: Bits and pieces.
PICARD: Anything would help.
GUINAN: They're made up of organic and artificial life which has been developing for thousands of centuries.
Q: The Borg is the ultimate user. They're unlike any threat your Federation has ever faced. They're not interested in political conquest, wealth or power as you know it. They're simply interested in your ship, its technology. They've identified it as something they can consume.
RIKER: You brought us here, you exposed us to them, and you cost us the lives of our shipmates
Q: Oh, please.
PICARD: Number One. Eighteen of our people have died. Please, tell us this is one of your illusions.
Q: Oh, no. This is as real as your so called life gets.
LAFORGE (voiceover): This is Lieutenant La Forge, Captain. We've been able to restore power to the shields.
PICARD: Very good.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, I have the casualty list coming on screen.
PICARD: Cancel. We'll deal with that later.
RIKER: Sir, if we're going to have further dealings with the Borg now or in the future, I think that we should find out all we can about them.
PICARD: Visit their ship?
RIKER: In my opinion, that's the only choice.
PICARD: Assemble a minimal away team.
GUINAN: What?
RIKER: Mister Worf, transporter room three. Data.
GUINAN: I wouldn't go there if I were you.
RIKER: Oh, I don't know, Guinan. They paid us a visit. It seems only fair that we return the courtesy.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have been attacked without provocation by an alien race which Guinan calls the Borg. It appears that we have neutralized their vessel. Commander Riker is leading an away team in an attempt to learn more about them.

[Transporter room]
WORF: There are no life sign readings.
O'BRIEN: I've laid in coordinates which should set you down in the least damaged section of the Borg ship.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Be ready to increase power in case we need it. Energize.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: I wonder why they don't react to us, or why the Enterprise didn't read any life signs, especially with this many of them.
DATA: Perhaps because this ship was scanned for individual life signs. Apparently when they are in these slots, they become part of the whole and no longer read as separate life forms.
RIKER: Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Our readings were incorrect. The Borg crew survived

[Borg ship]
RIKER: They appear to be in some kind of stasis.
PICARD (voiceover): Explain.
RIKER: There are slots along the wall, kind of like compartments. There are two Borg in each.
DATA: Captain, I would theorize that the Borg are somehow interconnected through these slots and are working collectively.
RIKER: We're going try to access their main computer.
DATA: Commander, I believe each slot is designed for a specific Borg. Here is where the connection is made.
RIKER: Like a juggernaut, it could begin moving at any moment.
DATA: The technology required to achieve this biological and artificial interface is far beyond our capabilities. There are many advantages.
RIKER: Speed being the most obvious. This ship literally just thinks what it wants, and then it happens.
DATA: Fascinating.
RIKER: They either don't see us, or don't see us as a threat.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter Chief.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien here, Captain.
PICARD: If your lock on the away team wavers in the slightest, beam them back immediately.
O'BRIEN: Count on it, sir.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: Captain this is incredible. We've entered what appears to be the Borg nursery.
PICARD (voiceover): Describe it.
RIKER: From the look of it the Borg are born as biological life form. It seems that almost immediately after birth they begin artificial implants. Apparently the Borg have developed the technology

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): To link artificial intelligence directly into the humanoid brain.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: Astounding.
DATA: Commander?
RIKER: What is it?
DATA: The ship appears to be regenerating. Perhaps this explains why they have not taken notice of our presence. Their collective effort is being directed into repairing this vessel.
RIKER: Captain,

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): The Borg seem to be using their combined power to repair the ship.
PICARD: Transporter Chief, beam the away team directly to the Bridge.
PICARD: Let's get the hell out of here. Warp eight. Now, Mister Crusher. Engage.
DATA: Captain, the Borg are in pursuit.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: Increase to ten to the third power.
RIKER: It's continuing to regenerate.
PICARD: Let's see if we can outrun them. Lieutenant La Forge, I want maximum warp

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): For as long as we can hold it.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We are passing warp eight point five.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Eight point eight. Warp nine.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes. See if we can slow them down.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They had no effect.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Bridge, this is Engineering. We are now at warp nine point six five.
WORF: The Borg are still gaining.
Q: They will follow this ship until you exhaust your fuel. They will wear down your defenses. Then you will be theirs. Admit it, Picard. You're out of your league. You should have stayed where you belonged.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log supplemental. We are unable to maintain the gap between the Enterprise and the Borg ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead.
LAFORGE (voiceover): You've got all we can give you.
PICARD: I understand, Mister La Forge.
WORF: Captain, the enemy vessel is firing on us. There are no reports of any damage to the Enterprise.
DATA: Captain, the target was not the ship. The weapon was designed to drain the shields.
WORF: Confirmed. Shield effectiveness has been reduced twelve percent.
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is closing.
WORF: They're firing again. Shields have been reduced forty one percent. Another hit and we will be defenseless.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire the photons.
WORF: The Borg ship was not damaged.
Q: You can't outrun them. You can't destroy them. If you damage them, the essence of what they are remains. They regenerate and keep coming. Eventually you will weaken, your reserves will be gone. They are relentless.
WORF: The Borg ship is firing. We have lost shields again.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've just lost the warp engines.

[Bridge]
Q: Where's your stubbornness now, Picard, your arrogance? Do you still profess to be prepared for what awaits you?
WORF: The Borg ship is re-establishing its tractor beam.
RIKER: Lock on photon torpedoes.
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: Without our shields, at this range there is a high degree of probability that a photon detonation could destroy the Enterprise.
RIKER: Prepare to fire.
Q: I'll be leaving now. You thought you could handle it, so handle it.
PICARD: Q. End this.
Q: Moi? What makes you think I am either inclined or capable to terminate this encounter?
PICARD: If we all die, here, now, you will not be able to gloat. You wanted to frighten us. We're frightened. You wanted to show us that we were inadequate. For the moment, I grant that. You wanted me to say I need you. I need you!
RIKER: Position.
WESLEY: Zero seven zero, mark six three, sir. Back where we started.
Q: That was a difficult admission. Another man would have been humiliated to say those words. Another man would have rather died than ask for help.
PICARD: I understand what you've done here, Q, but I think the lesson could have been learned without the loss of eighteen members of my crew.
Q: If you can't take a little bloody nose, maybe you ought to go back home and crawl under your bed. It's not safe out here. It's wondrous, with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and gross, but it's not for the timid.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the nearest starbase.
WESLEY: Course laid in for Starbase Eighty Three, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Q set a series of events into motion, bringing contact with the Borg much sooner than it should have come. Now, perhaps when you're ready, it might be possible to establish a relationship with them. But for now, for right now, you're just raw material to them. Since they are aware of your existence
PICARD: They will be coming.
GUINAN: You can bet on it.
PICARD: Maybe Q did the right thing for the wrong reason.
GUINAN: How so?
PICARD: Well, perhaps what we most needed was a kick in our complacency, to prepare us ready for what lies ahead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42779.1. We're en route to the Epsilon Nine Sector for astronomical survey of a new pulsar cluster. In the meantime, Ensign Crusher will be diverting to Starbase Five One Five for Starfleet exams.

[Bridge]
RIKER: This just came in for you from Starfleet
WESLEY: Testing parameters?
DATA: Do not be apprehensive. Wes. I found the Academy examinations quite elementary.
WESLEY: You would.
RIKER: Your earlier test results were good enough to get you Academy credit for your work here. I don't think you have anything to worry about.
WESLEY: Those Academy cadets can be extremely competitive.
RIKER: But you have the practical experience, Wes.
DATA: Commander Riker is correct. While the information imparted to cadets at the Academy is unquestionably vital for prospective Starfleet officers, it nevertheless requires a significant period of supplementary systems training and situational disciplines.
RIKER: Didn't I just say that?
DATA: Yes, sir, but not quite as perspicuously.

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD: I will not have you telling me what course to set.
PULASKI: As Chief Medical Officer, I am ordering you to report to Starbase Five One Five immediately.
PICARD: Oh, please. I feel fine.
PULASKI: The truth is, you've ignored this far too long.
PICARD: This ship has a mission to carry out.
PULASKI: An astronomical survey to be conducted by the science officers, I believe.
PICARD: And I 'was looking forward to seeing the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster for myself.
PULASKI: Then we'll perform the procedure right here.
PICARD: Absolutely not.
PULASKI: My staff and I are fully capable of giving you the replacement.
PICARD: That's not the point. It would be It would be inappropriate for you to carry out the procedure.
PULASKI: Captain Picard, I had no idea. You do have an ego, don't you?
PICARD: Meaning?
PULASKI: You're concerned about your image. Don't worry. If you get yourself down to Starbase Five One Five, your image will be safe with me.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, excuse me.
PICARD: Ensign. I understand you're leaving for Starbase Five One Five.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. I was just going to shuttlebay two.
PICARD: Good. I have business there. I shall accompany you.
WESLEY: You will? I mean, yes sir.
PICARD: Prepare the shuttle for immediate departure.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Something I can take care of for you on Starbase Five One Five?
PICARD: Hardly, Number One.
RIKER: But you'll miss the Epsilon Pulsar survey.
PICARD: I'm well aware of that fact. You have the Bridge. Carry on.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Yes, what is it, Number One?
RIKER: Is something wrong? This trip to Starbase Five One Five is rather unexpected.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher and I will rendezvous with you on your return from the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster.
RIKER: Forgive my saying so, sir, but you're being rather enigmatic.
PICARD: Consider it Captain's privilege.
RIKER: As First Officer, I have complete security clearance.
PICARD: This has nothing to do with ship's business, Number One. Suffice it to say, it is strictly a matter of image.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Relax, Wes. You'll do fine on your exams.
SONYA: Yeah.
WESLEY: It's not my exams I'm worried about. It's Captain Picard.
SONYA: Why? He's not taking the exams.
WESLEY: It's just the two of us, in a shuttlecraft for six hours. What am I going to talk to Captain Picard about for six hours?
SONYA: Archeology, semantics, literature, art. You could learn a lot from Captain Picard.
LAFORGE: Ah, Captain Picard. Nice day for a little trip.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: Shuttle number two is ready for departure.
DATA (voiceover): The Enterprise is at impulse speed. You are cleared for take off.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, wasn't the Captain looking forward to this mission to the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster?
DATA: So he said.
RIKER: Then what would make him change his mind? Why would he leave the ship now?
WORF: Commander, receiving a mayday on all frequencies.
RIKER: Source?
WORF: Rhomboid Dronegar Sector zero zero six
RIKER: Detail?
WORF: Ship. Unidentified. Distress. Nothing more.
RIKER: Set course for Rhomboid Dronegar zero zero six, warp seven.
DATA: Sir, Rhomboid Dronegar sector would put us at considerable distance from Captain Picard.
RIKER: I know, Data. I know.
DATA: Entering Rhomboid Dronegar Sector zero zero six.
WORF: I have a ship on target path.
RIKER: Slow to impulse speed.
HELM: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Viewer.
WORF: Deploy shields, sir?
RIKER: Hold fast. Data?
DATA: Basic early design. Capable of sub-light travel only.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed.
RIKER: On screen.
RIKER: I am First Officer William Riker of the USS Enterprise. We're responding to your distress signal.
RIKER: What is your problem?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We are far from home.
RIKER: Aren't we all. But you sent out a Mayday?
RIKER: Do you need help?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We are Pakleds. Our ship is the Mondor. It is broken.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We are far from home. We need help.
LAFORGE: Let me guess. Their rubber band broke, right?
DATA: Sensors indicate engineering problems. They're experiencing total guidance system failure, with less than twenty four hours' reserve power.
LAFORGE: Maybe I can help.
RIKER: What brings you so far from home?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We look for things.
RIKER: What were you looking for?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Things we need.
RIKER: Can you be more specific?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Things that make us go. We need help.
RIKER: What is the nature of your mission?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We look for things.
RIKER: Did you hear an echo?
LAFORGE: Commander, from the looks of their ship, I could have them up and running in no time.
RIKER: You sure?
LAFORGE: Yeah, no problem.
RIKER: Very well. Our Chief Engineer will beam over to help you. Close.
WORF: Commander? Do we truly need to send our Chief Engineer over to them?
RIKER: Obviously they need our help.
WORF: Why do we not simply give them the information they need to make their own repairs?
RIKER: Do you honestly get the impression they could handle our technical specifications?
WORF: We do not know anything about them.
RIKER: Acknowledged, Mister Worf. We have an obligation to render aid. Report to the transporter Room with all necessary gear.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: We need more information.
RIKER: Do you have anything else on them?
DATA: They are a relatively benign species.
RIKER: Don't they seem a little slow?
DATA: They may merely have poorly developed language skills.
WORF: What about weapons?
DATA: Scanners shows limited armaments.
RIKER: I think we can relax, Mister Worf. They can't even move their ship without our help. We certainly have them outmanned and outgunned.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: ETA thirteen thirty hours, sir. It's not exactly warp speed.
PICARD: More like a late twenty-second century interplanetary journey.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: You should read more history, Ensign.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Complete waste of time.
WESLEY: Pardon?
PICARD: I shouldn't be taking this trip at all. I should be back on board the Enterprise.
WESLEY: Why are you coming with me to Starbase Five One Five, sir?
PICARD: Well, it's certainly not my idea. I'm sorry, Ensign, I didn't mean to take it out on you. I just hate the prospect of another damned cardiac replacement.
WESLEY: Cardiac replacement? I didn't know.
PICARD: Well, now you do.
WESLEY: A parthenogenetic implant?
PICARD: What else would it be? My heart was injured and a replacement was necessary. That would have been it, except that the replacement is faulty.
WESLEY: Why would anyone use a faulty replacement?
PICARD: Just pilot the shuttle, Ensign.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: Whoa, whoa, wait a minute, it's okay. I'm here to help.
GREBNEDLOG: We are far from home.
LAFORGE: Who's in charge of Engineering?
GREBNEDLOG: My friend. His name is Reginod.
LAFORGE: Think I could meet him?
GREBNEDLOG: He is Reginod.
LAFORGE: Yes, I think you mentioned that.
REGINOLD: We look for things.
LAFORGE: So I've heard.
GREBNEDLOG: Can you make our ship go?
LAFORGE: Yes, I think so.
GREBNEDLOG: We look for things to make us go.
LAFORGE: Fellas, why don't you show me where your guidance system is, okay? Excuse me.
REGINOLD: He is smart.

[Bridge]
TROI: Commander? Lieutenant La Forge is on an alien ship?
RIKER: Yes. We're rendering assistance to some curious throwbacks.
DATA: How they ever mastered the rudiments of space travel is a genuine curiosity.
TROI: Commander. Those aliens. What they feel is not helplessness. Lieutenant La Forge is in great danger! He's in danger, great danger.
RIKER: Can you be more specific, Counselor?
TROI: It's not our help they want.
RIKER: Well, our help is all they're going to get. They can't force us into anything, can they?
TROI: You think they're weak.
RIKER: Look at them. They're certainly not Jarada or Romulans.
DATA: Our Betazoid Counselor is often aware of things beyond our perceptive abilities.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Van Doren's technique has been perfected to two point four percent.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: The cardiac replacement procedure. It has a very low mortality rate. Two point four percent.
WESLEY: Those are pretty good odds.
PICARD: Just not overly thrilled at the prospect of having my innards becoming the subject of Starfleet gossip.
WESLEY: Of course not, sir. Why didn't you just have Doctor Pulaski perform the operation? I'm sure you could've trusted her to keep it quiet.
PICARD: Let's say I have personal reasons and leave it at that, shall we?

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: The power needs to be rerouted through this venturi chamber before it can be channeled to the engine's coils.
REGINOLD: It is broken.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but not for long. See, we are going to reconfigure these separators, here and over here.
RIKER (voiceover): Lieutenant La Forge, this is Commander Riker. Come in.
LAFORGE: Yes, Commander. Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you all right?
LAFORGE (screen): Sure. Why do you ask?
RIKER: Counselor Troi has expressed misgivings about your absence from the Enterprise.
LAFORGE (screen): I don't think there's anything to worry about.
RIKER: Understood. As soon as you complete the repairs, I want you back here.
LAFORGE (screen): Yes, sir, I should be done here momentarily.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: You see? Like that. There. Your guidance is now up and running.
LAFORGE: Main power failure?
GREBNEDLOG: Will our ship go now?
LAFORGE: Your guidance is operational, but you're not going anywhere, not with a main power failure.
GREBNEDLOG: It is broken.
REGINOLD: Can you make it go?
LAFORGE: Commander Riker?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I have a problem.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE (screen): It looks like this is going to take a little bit longer than I anticipated.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: I guess you would have preferred Commander Riker as a traveling companion.
PICARD: What?
WESLEY: It's okay. You're not too comfortable with me. I understand.
PICARD: Ensign. Wesley, that's not true. You're a fine young man.
WESLEY: You don't have to say that, sir. It's pretty obvious how you feel.
PICARD: Is it? How so?
WESLEY: Everyone knows. You don't like kids. That's too bad. You'd have made a good father.
PICARD: Thank you.
WESLEY: Didn't you ever wish you had kids of your own?
PICARD: Wishing for a thing does not make it so.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We send him over there for one set of repairs, now they need him for more.
DATA: Apparently, their ship is apparently quite fragile.
RIKER: This is Riker on the Enterprise.
LAFORGE (screen): Almost got it, Commander.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We look for things.
RIKER: Apparently your ship is in need of more than minor repair.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Things to make it go.
RIKER: We will use our tractor beam to tow you to the nearest base.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): He can make it go.
RIKER: Yes, but we need our Chief Engineer back on board our ship.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): He is smart.
LAFORGE (screen): All done, Commander.
RIKER: Prepare to beam over.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Pakled ship]
REGINOLD: You are good.
LAFORGE: We aim to please.
REGINOLD: We need you.
LAFORGE: I'm flattered. Look, fellas, I hate to repair and run, but if you'll excuse me. One to beam aboard.
LAFORGE: Hey! Don't!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Transporter room, beam La Forge back immediately.
CHIEF (voiceover): Aye negative response, sir.
RIKER: Try again!
CHIEF (voiceover): Negative response!
DATA: The Pakled ship has a shield up, sir.
RIKER: A shield? What kind?
DATA: It appears to be beyond their technology. Similar to Romulan shields.
RIKER: Do not interfere with our transporter beam. Drop your shields.
RIKER: Status?
WORF: Viewer transmission terminated and blocked.
RIKER: Hail on all frequencies.
DATA: Running frequency search. Negative, sir.
RIKER: They're ignoring us.
DATA: Apparently so.
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Shields up.
RIKER: Sensors at maximum sensitivity.
DATA: Sensors at maximum.
WORF: Phasers ready, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Would you care for some coffee, Ensign?
WESLEY: No, thank you, sir.
PICARD: How about a sandwich?
WESLEY: I don't think so, sir.
PICARD: Oh, come on, it's been hours. You must be hungry.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Here.
WESLEY: Were you ever married?
PICARD: Never had the time.
WESLEY: Don't you ever get lonely?
PICARD: For ambitious Starfleet officers, there are certain costs involved. One must be cautious of long-term commitments, Wesley.
WESLEY: No problem. Where women are concerned, I am in complete control.
PICARD: Really? I always rather had to work at that.
WESLEY: Have you always been so disciplined?
PICARD: Good Lord, no. If I was, I wouldn't have this problem.
WESLEY: I don't understand.
PICARD: Well, I was a young Starfleet officer, not many years older than you are now. Top of my Academy Class. Green as hell. And oh, so cocky. Too cocky, as it turned out.
WESLEY: What happened?
PICARD: Several friends and I were on leave at Farspace Starbase Earhart. It was little more than a galactic outpost in those days.
WESLEY: Was this before the Klingons joined the Federation?
PICARD: That's right. Well, my mates and I were at the Bonestell Recreation Facility, which was something of a dead rough crossroads at the time, filled with an assorted bunch of galactic riffraff. When a trio of Nausicaans came in, they were clearly spoiling for a confrontation with a group of fresh-faced Starfleet officers such as ourselves. Well, everyone in the group had the good sense to give these Nausicaans a wide berth, to stand off. Everyone, that is, except me. I stood toe to toe with the worst of the three, and I told him what I thought of him, his pals, his planet, and I possibly made some passing reference to his questionable parentage. And the next thing I knew, all three of them were on me and I was fighting for my life. I was actually doing quite well for a while, too.
WESLEY: You fought them? And won?
PICARD: I had this one Nausicaan down in this somewhat devious joint-lock when, unbeknownst to me, one of his chums drew his weapon and impaled me through the back. Curious sensation, actually. Not much pain. Shock, certainly, at the sight of serrated metal sticking through my chest. A certain giddy warmth. In fact I do actually remember that I laughed out loud. Well, it pierced my heart, of course. Well, if we'd not been so near to a medical facility, I would surely have died.
WESLEY: Really? Then what happened?
PICARD: Nothing. I was no hero, Wesley. I was an undisciplined, loud-mouthed, opinionated young man who was way out of his league. I learned a very hard, very painful lesson that day, but I learned it well. I hope you never have to learn it the same way. Care for another sandwich?
WESLEY: Please.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Come on, Data.
DATA: I am programming the comm. system to scan the interference patterns, but a full analysis will take time.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: You be careful with that thing.
GREBNEDLOG: You want to hurt us.
LAFORGE: What? I came here to help you.
REGINOLD: We can make more.
GREBNEDLOG: Make more weapons.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. You have a replicator?
GREBNEDLOG: It is not broken.
LAFORGE: I didn't come here to give you weapons.
GREBNEDLOG: You will make more.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, a photon torpedo may penetrate their shield.
RIKER: Any hostile move on our part could jeopardize Geordi.
WORF: Agreed. But what do the Pakleds want?
RIKER: Counselor?
TROI: They have what they want. For now.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: We're approaching Starbase Five One Five, sir.
PICARD: At last. Did you read that book I gave you?
WESLEY: Some of it.
PICARD: That's reassuring.
WESLEY: I just don't have much time.
PICARD: There is no greater challenge than the study of philosophy.
WESLEY: But William James won't be in my Starfleet exams.
PICARD: The important things never will be. Anyone can be trained in the mechanics of piloting a starship.
WESLEY: But Starfleet Academy
PICARD: It takes more. Open your mind to the past. Art, history, philosophy. And all this may mean something.

[Bridge]
TROI: It's all deception. Nothing the Pakleds have said or done has been sincere.
DATA: Intensified scan shows their guidance system to be perfectly intact, as is their power generator.
RIKER: Then what was Geordi repairing?
DATA: Apparently, the putative malfunctions were carefully programmed into their ship's computer.
RIKER: I didn't think the Pakleds had that kind of technology.
DATA: They seem to have made some technological leaps forward, Commander.
RIKER: Why would they go through the charade of needing our help?
TROI: For the sole purpose of making Lieutenant La Forge their prisoner. Captain's personal log, stardate 42779.5. We have arrived at Starbase Five One Five. I'm still quite uneasy, despite assurances that this medical procedure poses little risk.

[Starbase 515 Medical Complex]
PICARD: I hope you won't be late for your exams.
WESLEY: I still have some time, sir.
PICARD: Why do I get the distinct impression you're acting like some kind of escort?
WESLEY: Doctor Pulaski asked me to make sure you actually went inside.
PICARD: That woman. She would.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: Yes, what is it, Ensign?
WESLEY: I enjoyed our trip together, sir.
PICARD: So did I.

[Bridge]
DATA: They are initiating visual contact, sir.
RIKER: Maybe now we'll find out what they really want.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Enterprise.
RIKER: We demand that you return our crewmember immediately.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Request denied.
RIKER: Lower your shield!
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Request denied.
RIKER: Stop it! What do you want?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): You think we are not smart.
RIKER: I think you need to continue to develop.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We are smart.
RIKER: Prove it. Return our man to us.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): You want him?
RIKER: Yes, damn it.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Good. We want all computer information from your ship. Now.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We've got a man held hostage by alien forces and all I have are no-option options. I need some input.
PULASKI: Is Geordi all right?
WORF: He's already been hit by multiple phaser stuns.
PULASKI: He could need medical attention.
WORF: Security team stands ready to take the initiative, sir.
RIKER: Data?
DATA: Our options have not changed. We can either respond to the Pakled demand or not. We can either use force or not.
RIKER: Allowing them access to our computer is a complete breech of Starfleet security.
WORF: Then force it must be.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theater]
SURGEON: Don't worry about a thing, Captain. We've done this a hundred times, and we're ready when you are.
PICARD: Just get on with it, Doctor. I've got work to do.
SURGEON: Activate Sterile Field. Neural calipers.
SURGEON: This will be a secondary cardiac procedure with mid-line entry and excision of the early model unit. I anticipate no complications, as the patient has had positive primary results and exhibits extraordinary physical condition. We'll all be home in time for dinner. Tissue mitigator.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: There's limited information available on Pakled culture, but the eclectic range of their equipment suggests their technology was borrowed from others.
TROI: And now they have become militant.
DATA: So it would seem.
RIKER: Rationale?
TROI: They are unwilling to wait for the timely evolution of their species' intellectual capacity. They want instant knowledge, instant power and gratification.
PULASKI: The more they get, the more they want.
RIKER: And the more aggressive and dangerous they become. I think it's time we set some limits.
DATA: To what effect, sir? We are faced with an impossible conundrum.
RIKER: Suppose we turn their impatience and greed against them?
PULASKI: But how?
RIKER: Perhaps Geordi should give them something they want. Something important. Then we simply create the right moment for him to take it away, and get him the hell out of there.
TROI: Would you be suggesting a ruse of some sort?
RIKER: I would.
PULASKI: But what if we fail? What'll happen to Geordi then?
RIKER: We have no other choice. We have to try.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theater]
SURGEON: There's been some capillary reaction here. Let's proceed carefully. We'll need sharper focus on the thoracic polychromatics and verification of myocardial enzyme balance.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: Let me talk to them. I'll get you their computer banks.
GREBNEDLOG: We want to be smart.
LAFORGE: So open the hailing frequency. They'll listen to me.
GREBNEDLOG: We are smart.
REGINOLD: We need their computer things.
GREBNEDLOG: Yes. Yes.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: Hey, let me talk to him. I'll get you their computer banks.
GREBNEDLOG: We want to be smart.
LAFORGE: So open the hailing frequency. They'll listen to me.
GREBNEDLOG: We are smart.
REGINOLD: We need their computer things.
GREBNEDLOG: Yes. Yes.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (screen): Commander Riker?
RIKER: Yes, Lieutenant, we're here.
LAFORGE (screen): The Pakleds seem pretty sincere.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We want what we want.
RIKER: Our computer banks are non-negotiable.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We want them.
LAFORGE (screen): Believe me, they're nothing if not persistent.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We want to be nothing if not persistent.
LAFORGE (screen): Nobody ever said they were great conversationalists.
RIKER: Where did they get their shields?
GREBNEDLOG (screen): Yes. We like shields.
LAFORGE (screen): Well, from what I've seen, half the systems on this ship have been stolen from Romulans, Klingons, Jarada, just about anybody they've ever came in contact with.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): We like to be smart.
RIKER: Confirmed, Lieutenant La Forge. They steal technology.
DATA: But they lack the ability to use it properly.
RIKER: You're an excellent Chief Engineer, Lieutenant La Forge.
LAFORGE (screen): Thank you, sir.
RIKER: And of course your knowledge of phaser and photon weaponry is unmatched.
LAFORGE (screen): That's nice of you to say, sir, but really Lieutenant Worf
RIKER: Our missions are always inherently dangerous, and any of us could be called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice at any time.
LAFORGE (screen): Yes, sir, but
RIKER: Speaking of time. This may be your time. I shall personally miss you.
DATA: Goodbye, Geordi. I shall miss you at weapons systems analysis.
LAFORGE (screen): And I guess you'll just have to arm your photon torpedo countdowns without me.
DATA: As well as our hydrogen collectors. Fond farewell.
GREBNEDLOG (screen): He knows about weapons.
REGINOLD (screen): You can make us strong.
LAFORGE (screen): It's not something I really like to talk about.
WORF: Any classified weapons knowledge you share with your captors will be considered treason.
LAFORGE (screen): But I may have no choice.
WORF: You will die without honor.
LAFORGE (screen): Thanks a lot, Worf.
WORF: You will never attain the twenty fourth level of awareness.
LAFORGE (screen): Twenty-four? That's quite a challenge.
WORF: Indeed. Twenty four is the gateway to heroic salvation.
PULASKI: Do you think he understands?
RIKER: He'd better.
TROI: He's afraid.
RIKER: We all are, Counselor.

[Pakled ship]
GREBNEDLOG: You are smart.
LAFORGE: Not smart enough. I'm still here.
GREBNEDLOG: Make us strong.
LAFORGE: I thought you wanted me to help you go. Why don't we work on that guidance system, okay?
GREBNEDLOG: Make us strong, or die.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theater]
SURGEON: It's not working. Something's wrong. The metabolation occlusions aren't holding. Damn it! I can't stop the heterocyclic declination. Fuse.
SURGEON: Again! We need a biomolecular physiologist in here. This man is dying.
MEDIC: Right away, sir.

[Pakled armory]
LAFORGE: You've got to be kidding.
GREBNEDLOG: Make us strong.
LAFORGE: Come on. There's not enough juice in these to blow up a passing asteroid.
GREBNEDLOG: Do it. Make us strong.
LAFORGE: I suppose we could increase the anti-matter charges.
REGINOLD: Yes. We like power.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
GREBNEDLOG: Do not try to trick us. We can tell.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theater]
PHYSIOLOGIST: Metabolation?
SURGEON: Negative.
PHYSIOLOGIST: Heterocyclics?
SURGEON: Failing. And capillary integrity too unpredictable to attempt a resect.
PHYSIOLOGIST: You're unwilling to make the attempt??
SURGEON: I'm not qualified.
PHYSIOLOGIST: I know someone who is.

[Engineering]
SONYA: Are you sure he can do it, sir? Geordi's an engineer, not a weapons specialist.
RIKER: If anyone can improvise, it's Geordi.
SONYA: What makes you think the Pakleds even have that kind of gear on board?
DATA: Ongoing scanning indicates progressive weapons potential. The timing will be crucial. Geordi must correctly interpret our intentions.
RIKER: Geordi's up to speed. I trust his instincts.
DATA: The Pakleds did hear our little fiction about Geordi's weapons knowledge.
RIKER: Exactly. And since they equate intelligence with strength, they won't pass up the chance to use that knowledge. Can you do it?
SONYA: Count on it.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Riker!
RIKER: Go ahead, Bridge.

[Bridge]
WORF: I am receiving an emergency summons from Starbase Five One Five. Captain Picard

[Engineering]
WORF (voiceover): Is close to death.
RIKER: Be ready.

[Pakled armory]
REGINOLD: We are strong.
LAFORGE: You're now armed to the teeth.
GREBNEDLOG: Teeth are for chewing.
LAFORGE: You have photon torpedo. You are strong.
GREBNEDLOG: We are strong. We have power.

[Bridge]
DATA: Positive indication of armed photon torpedoes, Commander.
RIKER: Geordi did it.
WORF: Starbase requests we proceed to base at warp nine
PULASKI: We've got to go.
TROI: Yes. the Captain needs our help.
RIKER: We can't leave Geordi behind. I want the Pakleds on that screen and I want them now.
DATA: Forced spectrum communications are spotty at best, sir.
RIKER: Do it.
RIKER: This is the Enterprise. Return our personnel or face immediate reprisal.
GREBNEDLOG: We are strong now. We have better weapons.
RIKER: Are you prepared to use them?
REGINOLD: We are a force now. We will have respect. Power.
RIKER: We don't have time for this. You want power? Here's power. Riker to Ensign Gomez.

[Engineering]
SONYA: Ready, Commander Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Prepare firing sequencing.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Start firing countdown from twenty four.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: I can't believe it! My friends, my people, they're trying to kill us! Kill me!
GREBNEDLOG: Believe it. They are violent.
LAFORGE: Okay, they want to play rough, that's fine with me. Just let me check something.
GREBNEDLOG: Good. He is on our side now.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Begin firing sequence.
COMPUTER: Twenty four, twenty three

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Twenty two. twenty one, twenty
WORF: Firing sequence proceeding, sir.
RIKER: Hold fast.
COMPUTER: Eighteen, seventeen

[Pakled armory]
COMPUTER (voiceover): Sixteen, fifteen
LAFORGE: Don't do anything yet.
COMPUTER (voiceover): Fourteen, thirteen.
REGINOLD: What are you doing?
LAFORGE: Making sure your systems are operative.
GREBNEDLOG: We will attack. We are strong.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Nine, eight, seven, six, five

[Pakled armory]
REGINOLD: We should attack now.
LAFORGE: Just another second. We can't afford a mis-fire here.
COMPUTER (voiceover): Two, one.
GREBNEDLOG: Hurry.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Fire.

[Pakled ship]
LAFORGE: Now!
LAFORGE: No! Too late!
REGINOLD: We have fired! They will be destroyed.
LAFORGE: They used their crimson force field.
GREBNEDLOG: It did not shoot.
LAFORGE: No, the crimson force field has disarmed us.
REGINOLD: They are smart.
GREBNEDLOG: We are not strong.
RIKER (voiceover): Drop your shields.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Allow us transport Lieutenant La Forge immediately.
DATA: Shields are down.
RIKER: Transporter room, beam one to the Bridge.
CHIEF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Set heading for Starbase Five One Five, warp nine.
LAFORGE: Blowing that hydrogen exhaust through the Bussard collectors sure put on a nice light show.
RIKER: Harmless, but effective. Were you able disable the photons?
LAFORGE: Just in time. That's why you're still here.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theater]
NURSE: Deactivating neural calipers.
PICARD: What the hell are you doing here?
PULASKI: Saving your life.
PICARD: Oh, come on. This is a routine procedure. Quite commonplace.
PULASKI: True. But you are not a commonplace man. You'll be out of recovery in four hours.
PICARD: I didn't want you involved in this.
PULASKI: You're welcome.
PICARD: If you're here, the entire crew must know.
PULASKI: You're still the Captain. Invincible.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
LAFORGE: Looks like things are back to normal.
PICARD: I'm pleased to report that Ensign Crusher's Starfleet exam results permit him to continue his studies on board the Enterprise. Furthermore, any rumors of my brush with death are greatly exaggerated. Is that clear?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then, Ensign Crusher, set course for the Epsilon Sector, warp five. Engage.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, will you join me in the Ready room?
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I've just come from a meeting with Admiral Moore. He wanted to discuss this.
PICARD: Recognize it?
RIKER: Sounds like it might be an SOS.
PICARD: Good guess. You're quicker than Starbase research. It took them hours to determine this was a distress beacon.
RIKER: When was it detected?
PICARD: Last month. Just kicked in without any warning.
RIKER: Who used the beacon?
PICARD: It's Terran.
RIKER: Captain, I'm familiar with most Earth codes, and
PICARD: Interesting. Yes, that code hasn't been used in centuries.
RIKER: What was its origin point?
PICARD: Ficus sector.
RIKER: Captain, I don't think there's any record of an Earth colony in that area.
PICARD: Now we know there's someone out there and they're asking for help.
RIKER: But who?
PICARD: Let's try and find out. Computer, download all information regarding signal beacon from Starbase mainframe.
COMPUTER: Distress beacon used by the European Hegemony.
RIKER: The European Hegemony?
PICARD: A loose alliance formed in the early part of the twenty second century. It was the first stirrings of world government. You should read more history, Number One. Computer, locate exact dates in which this signal beacon was in general use.
COMPUTER: Old Earth calendar, 2123 until 2190.
RIKER: No extraterrestrial source ever used this code?
COMPUTER: Negative.
PICARD: Locate all Earth deep space launches from 2123 until 2190, with a destination in or near the Ficus sector.
COMPUTER: Working.
RIKER: Nothing for Ficus.
PICARD: Damn it, who's out there?
RIKER: Lost sheep.
PICARD: Let's go see if we can find them.

[Bridge]
DATA: Medical emergency. Doctor Pulaski to the Bridge.
PICARD: What happened?
DATA: He just collapsed, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42823.2. We're departing from Starbase Seven Three to investigate the source of the mysterious distress signal. Meanwhile, my Security Officer remains in Sickbay, where Doctor Pulaski is searching for the cause of his collapse.

[Sickbay]
WORF: I am fine.
PULASKI: You're not fine. You fainted.
WORF: I did not faint. Klingons do not faint.
PULASKI: Excuse me, I'll rephrase. This Klingon suffered a dramatic drop in blood pressure, his blood glucose level dropped, there was deficient blood flow resulting from circulatory failure. In other words, he curled up his toes and laid unconscious on the floor.
WORF: Doctor, there is no need to insult me.
PULASKI: Worf, I am worried. Now, something is wrong. Klingons don't faint. Forgive me. I just can't think of another word that applies. You're sick.
WORF: Klingons do not give in to illness.
PULASKI: Just stay right where you are. I have to check something with the computer. Lieutenant, you have rop'ngor.
WORF: But that is a childhood ailment!
PULASKI: Yes.
WORF: How shall I live down the humiliation?
PULASKI: Worf, you can't help.
WORF: Still, for a warrior to find himself in such a situation.
PULASKI: So you've got the Klingon version of the measles.
WORF: How would Commander Riker feel if he had the measles.
PULASKI: Pretty silly.
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor Pulaski, how is Lieutenant Worf?
PULASKI: He's in no danger. Worf was just observing a Klingon ritual involving fasting, and he didn't take into account that you have to decrease your physical activity as you decrease your caloric intake. Pulaski out.
WORF: Thank you. I am in your debt.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I have been considering the problem of the missing ship. Although there is no record of a launch to the Ficus sector, which would not be unusual considering the chaos of the early twenty second century, someone had to load that ship.
PICARD: The manifest.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: There it is. SS Mariposa, loaded 27th November, 2123. Destination Ficus sector. Captain Walter Granger, commanding.
DATA: Mariposa. The Spanish word for butterfly.
PICARD: Thank you, Data.
DATA: I thought it might be significant, sir.
PICARD: It doesn't appear to be, Data.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: You learn a lot about people from their luggage. Two hundred and twenty five Yoshimitsu computers, five monitor beacon satellites, seven hundred cellular commlinks, fifty spinning wheels.
DATA: Spinning wheels? Accessing. A device for spinning yarn or thread that consists of a large foot or hand driven wheel and one spindle.
PICARD: Cattle, chickens, pigs. Not DNA, the actual livestock. Incredible. Why would anyone carry such an insane mix of cargo?
DATA: Spindle, a thin rounded tapering rod
PICARD: Data!
DATA: Perhaps they were planning for the worst, sir.
PICARD: Theorize, Data. Give me some background.
DATA: In the early twenty-second century, Earth was recovering from World War Three. A major philosopher of the period was Liam Dieghan, founder of the Neo-Transcendentalists, who advocated a return to a simpler life in which one lived in harmony with nature, and learned under her gentle tutelage
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But if this was a ship full of utopians, why carry all this technological baggage?
DATA: I have insufficient information from which to form a cogent theory, sir.

[Pulaski's office]
WORF: Doctor. I wished to thank you for protecting my
PULASKI: Your secret is safe with me. Worf, I'm honored. No one has ever performed the Klingon tea ceremony for me.
PULASKI: There, that should do it.
WORF: You know the ceremony?
PULASKI: I understand the externals, not the mysteries. I'm not a Klingon.
WORF: You must not drink the tea. It is deadly to humans.
PULASKI: And none too good for Klingons.
WORF: It is a test of bravery, of one's ability to look at the face of mortality. It is also a reminder that death is an experience best shared, like the tea.
PULASKI: Worf, you're a romantic.
WORF: It is among the Klingons that love poetry achieves its fullest flower.
PULASKI: Hold that thought.
PULASKI: Antidote. If we're going to share, let's share. Now, quote me a little of that poetry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Initiate sensor sweeps.
DATA: Aye, sir. The system's sun has entered a period of severe flare activity.
RIKER: Now we know what triggered the SOS.
DATA: Class M readings from the fifth planet in the system.
PICARD: Take us in.
WORF: Shields at maximum.
DATA: Sensors indicate human life form readings thirty meters below the planet's surface.
WORF: Hailing on all frequencies. No response so far, but the flares may be interfering with communications.
DATA: There is no evidence of an advanced communication network.
PICARD: They brought a lot of technology. Where is it?
WORF: There is no artificial power source on the planet.
DATA: The stellar flares are increasing in magnitude and frequency. Computer projections indicate they will brush the planet in three point six hours.
WORF: Evacuation will be difficult. We can lower our shields for transport only between the flares.
TROI: Captain, these people have been isolated for three hundred years. They could be very unsophisticated. The shock of suddenly being transported onto a spaceship could frighten them, to say the least.
PICARD: Your point is well taken, Counselor. Number One, you're going to have to go down there.
RIKER: On my way.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42827.3. Commander Riker has reached the caverns, where he is making preparations to begin the evacuation.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the situation, Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): There are roughly two hundred people down here.
PICARD: Their condition?
RIKER (voiceover): Surprisingly good.
PICARD: Are they willing to leave?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, but
PICARD: Well, get them up here.
RIKER (voiceover): I'm having a little debate with the colony's leader. It seems
PICARD: There's no time, Number One. Initiate the transport.
RIKER (voiceover): But, sir
PICARD: Whatever the problem, we'll handle it up here.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir, we're on our way. All of us. Riker out.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): First load ready, Mister O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Energizing.
O'BRIEN: Captain, you'd better get somebody down here. Right away.
DANILO: Take the pig out there, will you? Very good.
RIKER: O'Brien, I think that third wave should be in position.
DANILO: Shoo, damn you, shoo.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
DANILO: O'Brien, is it? I should have known t'would be a good Irishman that was running this ship.
PICARD: What the devil is going on here, Number One?
DANILO: Ah, Captain Picard is it. The man who makes decisions for me and mine without so much as a by your leave.
PICARD: This is my Security Chief, Lieutenant Worf.
DANILO: I don't suppose security is much of a problem for you. Danilo Odell, sir, at your service.
PICARD: What are these animals doing here, Number One.
RIKER: I'm sorry, sir. It was either this or arguing till hell froze over.
DANILO: Captain Picard, sir, we can't leave our animals here to die. Besides, how could we build our future without our animals?
PICARD: All right. Chief O'Brien, transport this group directly to cargo hold seven, and beam the remaining refugees from the planet directly to that hold.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
DANILO: Right, lads. Everybody back onto the infernal machine.
RIKER: Everybody up here.

[Corridor]
DANILO: Captain! Captain, t'was very good of you, sir, to rescue us from our troubles.
PICARD: My pleasure.
DANILO: Sir, you must be worth quite a bit to own a fine ship like this.
PICARD: I don't own the Enterprise, I command her.
DANILO: Whatever. Sir, would you happen to be married?
PICARD: No. Why?
DANILO: No? Well, you see, sir, I have a daughter.
PICARD: Felicitations.
DANILO: Would you be interested, sir?
PICARD: No.
DANILO: You're quite sure?
PICARD: Quite sure.
DANILO: He's quite sure.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: What's the total?
WORF: Two hundred and twenty three.
PULASKI: Count on two more in the next few days.
PICARD: Set course for the nearest starbase.
PULASKI: You know, they were anachronistic in 2123. It will be interesting to see how they cope.
RIKER: They'll learn and adapt. If Danilo Odell's any indication, they'll be running this place inside of a week.
WORF: Lieutenant Worf, here. Report.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Fire in cargo hold seven.
RIKER: The Bringloidi.
PICARD: What have they done to my ship now?

[Corridor]
WORF: Keep the area clear.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Fire has been contained. No damage.
PICARD: Unseal the doors.
DANILO: My God, Picard, the place is a bloody death trap! Lightning bolts falling from the ceiling!

[Cargo hold]
DANILO: What the hell was that thing?
WORF: Automated fire system. A force field contains the flame until the remaining oxygen within the field has been consumed.
DANILO: What if I had been under that thing?
WORF: You would have been standing in the fire.
DANILO: Well, leaving that aside for the moment, I mean, what would have happened to me?
WORF: You would have suffocated and died.
DANILO: Sweet mercy.
BRENNA: Oh, there you are. Your hospitality leaves a hell of a lot to be desired! You don't offer us a bite or a sup, and when we build a fire to cook a little something, the place goes mad!
PICARD: My apologies. I was unaware that you had not been instructed in the use of the food dispensers.
BRENNA: And what are you staring at? Have you never seen a woman before?
RIKER: I thought I had.
DANILO: Commander, may I present my daughter, Brenna Odell.
RIKER: Pleased to meet you, ma'am.
BRENNA: You may have all the time in the world, but I've dozens of frightened and hungry children and women to look after.
RIKER: And what about the men?
BRENNA: Well, I'm sure they'll find their comfort as they always do, in the bottom of a mug of home brew!
DANILO: Pay no heed, Commander. She's a fine girl. She's not usually so sharp tongued.
BRENNA: Dado!
RIKER: Sir? That's the last thing I expected.
PICARD: Sometimes, Number One, you just have to bow to the absurd.
DANILO: Captain, Captain, sir. How did the ship sense the fire?
PICARD: The ship's computer
DANILO: Computer?
PICARD: The ship's computers sense a localized increase
BRENNA: Men! Always talking when there's work to be done. And shouldn't you be flying this ship, or whatever it is you do?
RIKER: Sir, I think I'll stay and give her some help.
RIKER: That isn't necessary. The ship will clean itself.
BRENNA: Well, good for the bloody ship. Tell me, Commander Riker, where does a girl go to wash her feet on this ship?
RIKER: As the First Officer, I feel it's my responsibility to show you all the amenities.

[Corridor]
WORF: She is very like a Klingon woman.
DANILO: Ah, Captain, there's just one other thing. It slipped my mind in all the hustle and bustle.
PICARD: The point, Mister Odell.
DANILO: Well, in all your travels, have you heard anything from the other colony?
PICARD: The other colony?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. A review of stellar charts has revealed a Class M planet only half a light year from the Bringloid system. I am proceeding on the premise that it was the destination of the colony which possessed the more sophisticated equipment.

[Riker's quarters]
BRENNA: William Riker, you're a mess.
RIKER: You don't have to do that.
BRENNA: And if I don't, who will?
RIKER: I can see why your father wants to marry you off.
BRENNA: Oh, and why is that?
RIKER: So he can have a pipe and mug of beer in peace.
BRENNA: You've shown me so many wonders on your great ship, but there's still one thing you haven't shown me.
RIKER: What's that?
BRENNA: I'm still waiting to wash my feet.
RIKER: Right behind that door.
BRENNA: William, is something wrong?
RIKER: What do you mean?
BRENNA: Do you not like girls?
RIKER: Of course I do. Oh, is there a technique to this foot washing?
BRENNA: You generally start at the top and work your way down.
RIKER: I think I can handle that.
BRENNA: I was hoping you might.

[Cargo hold]
WORF: You sent for me?
DANILO: Ah, yes, yes. Now, we're brewing poteen, but we need to find a way to heat it without this bloody ship firing bloody lightning bolts at us.
WORF: You can obtain spirituous liquours from the food dispensers.
DANILO: Oh, no, no, no. It's not that synthehol bilge that O'Brien offered me, is it?
WORF: No, if you wish, it can be real alcohol.
DANILO: Good.
WORF: With all of the deleterious effects intact.
DANILO: As it should be. You see, lad, every moment of pleasure in life has to be purchased by an equal moment of pain. Whiskey.
DANILO: Terrible. It's got no bite.
WORF: Chech'tluth.
DANILO: Now that's what I call a wee drop of the creature.
BRENNA: Father!
DANILO: Remember what I said about the moment of pain? Well, tis about to begin. Hello, my darling.
BRENNA: Oh, my darling, is it? I might have known! Are you drunk yet, or can you talk with Doctor Pulaski about the children?
DANILO: What about them?
BRENNA: She wants to send them to school with the ship's children.
DANILO: What do you think?
BRENNA: I think it's a good idea. So go handle it! I'm sure there's something you can be doing with your time. And as for you.
WORF: What?
BRENNA: Why did you have to tell them that this magic wall can give them more than meat and potatoes? Now we'll never get a lick of work out of them.
WORF: Madam, have you considered a career in security?
BRENNA: If it's anything like babysitting, I'm an authority.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the class M planet where we hope to find the other colonists.

[Bridge]
WORF: Signal from the planet, Captain.
PICARD: On screen. This is Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets.
GRANGER (screen): This is wonderful. Welcome, Captain. I'm Wilson Granger, Prime Minister of Mariposa.
DATA: No doubt a descendant of Captain Walter Granger.
GRANGER (screen): Not quite a descendant. We feared Earth had suffered some catastrophe when no one came back to check on us.
PICARD: I'm afraid the truth is, you got lost in the bureaucracy. But despite the lateness of our arrival, we're here now and we're eager to renew ties.
GRANGER (screen): Splendid. Please, come down, and allow us to extend our hospitality to you and your crew.
PICARD: Thank you. Form an away team, Number One.
TROI: I would urge caution.
RIKER: Caution? What's wrong?
TROI: He's hiding something.
RIKER: We'll check it out. Mister Worf. Doctor Pulaski, join us in Transporter room three for an away detail.

[Reception]
GRANGER 2: Welcome to Mariposa. I'm Victor Granger, Minister of Health.
RIKER: Commander William Riker, Doctor Pulaski, Lieutenant Worf.
GRANGER 2: A pleasure. I'll escort you to the Prime Minister. This way please.
RIKER: Twin brothers?
GRANGER 2: Your arrival really is serendipitous.
PULASKI: Oh, how so?
GRANGER 2: Well, perhaps I'll let the Prime Minister to explain that.
RIKER: Triplets? Worf, there is something damn odd down here.
WORF: Quadruplets.

[Hallway]
GRANGER 2: Doctor, is your title scientific or medical?
PULASKI: Medical.
GRANGER 2: Ah, excellent.
PULASKI: Is there some medical problem we should know about?
GRANGER 2: I think it best if the, er
PULASKI: Prime minister explains that. Somehow I thought you might.
GRANGER 2: Yes. Excuse me. Gentlemen? Please, follow me.
GRANGER 2: This way please. Doctor.

[Granger's office]
GRANGER: Welcome to Mariposa.
PULASKI: Doctor Katherine Pulaski.
GRANGER: This is my Chief of Staff, Elizabeth Vallis.
PULASKI: Tell me, is your entire population made up of clones, Prime Minister?
WORF: Clones?
RIKER: Clones?
GRANGER: Clones.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Prime Minister Granger has requested an urgent meeting to discuss the future of the Mariposan colony. I've invited him to the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]
GRANGER: Captain, we need your help. Three hundred years ago during our landing on Mariposa, the skin of our ship was breached. Only five of the colonists survived. The progenitors weren't willing to just give up and die, and they were scientists
PICARD: So, they used that expertise and turned to cloning.
GRANGER: Yes. We had no other option. Two women and three men represented an insufficient gene pool from which to build a society.
PULASKI: How did you suppress the natural sexual drive? Drugs? Punitive laws?
GRANGER: In the beginning, a little bit of each. Now, after three hundred years, the entire concept of sexual reproduction is a little repugnant to us.
PULASKI: How did you overcome the problem of replicative fading?
GRANGER: We haven't.
PULASKI: You have got a problem.
RIKER: Wait. I don't understand replicative fading.
PULASKI: Each time you clone, you're making a copy of a copy. Subtle errors creep into the chromosomes, and eventually you end up with a non-viable clone.
PICARD: How can we help you?
GRANGER: We need an infusion of fresh DNA. I was hoping that you would be willing to share some tissue samples.
RIKER: You want to clone us?
GRANGER: Yes.
RIKER: No way, not me.
GRANGER: How can you possibly be harmed?
RIKER: It's not a question of harm. One William Riker is unique, perhaps even special. But a hundred of him, a thousand of him diminishes me in ways I can't even imagine.
GRANGER: You would be preserving yourself.
RIKER: Human beings have other ways of doing that. We have children.
PICARD: I think you will find that attitude prevalent among all the Enterprise people.
GRANGER: I see. Well, if you are not willing to share your DNA, will you at least send some people to repair our malfunctioning equipment?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Number One, put a technical team together. Let's get these repairs underway.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Lieutenant La Forge. Prepare a technical support away team. Meet me in transporter room three.
PULASKI: Captain, with your permission, I would like to return to the planet. It could be my last opportunity to study replicative fading. With your permission, of course, Mister Prime Minister.
GRANGER: You'd be most welcome. Perhaps you will find a solution that we have overlooked.
PULASKI: Well, I appreciate the compliment, but I don't think that's very likely. And repairing that equipment will certainly not solve your problems.
GRANGER: What other solution do we have? Doctor, remember, there are only five of us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and Doctor Pulaski have returned to Mariposa with a team of Enterprise technicians.

[Granger's office]
RIKER: The repairs are almost complete. I wish there was something more we could do.
GRANGER: Are you sure you won't reconsider?
PULASKI: About the cloning?
GRANGER: Yes.
RIKER: Out of the question.
LAFORGE: Excuse me, sir, I was looking for Commander Riker.
GRANGER: I'm afraid I haven't seen him.
LAFORGE: Doctor Pulaski?
GRANGER: Sorry, I can't help you.
LAFORGE: Well, I guess I'll just have to hunt for them. Sorry to disturb you.

[Pulaski's office]
LAFORGE: Hey. So what happened to you two down on Mariposa? Is everything all right?
RIKER: Is there any reason why it shouldn't be?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Every time I asked where you were, some clone lied to me.
RIKER: Lied to you?
LAFORGE: Commander, with this I can see better than your average person. Now when someone lies there are certain physical manifestations. Variations in blush response, pupil dilation, pulse, breath rate. Doesn't always work with aliens, but humans? Got'em nailed.
PULASKI: The clones lied about our whereabouts? I don't remember anything happening. I was working in their medical facility and got a call to report to Granger's office. I ran into Will on the way
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. Granger said he hadn't seen either one of you. Did you make it to his office?
RIKER: I think, I don't remember.
LAFORGE: So what's the prognosis, Doc?
PULASKI: Geordi, you'll be pleased to know that you're not missing any epithelial cells.
LAFORGE: Great.
PULASKI: Will and I, however, are.
RIKER: Meaning?
PULASKI: Although you can clone from any cell in the body, the cells lining the stomach are the best choice because they're relatively undifferentiated.
LAFORGE: Where are you going?
RIKER: To their cloning lab.

[Laboratory]
GRANGER: Stop! Murderers!
RIKER: Like hell! You're a damn thief!
PULASKI: Gentlemen, please.
GRANGER: What else could we do? We asked for your help and you refused us. We're desperate. Desperate!
RIKER: And that gave you the right to assault us, to rob us.
GRANGER: We have the right to survive!

[Ready room]
PICARD: Doctor, how desperate is the colony's situation?
PULASKI: They've got two or three generations, then the fading will be terminal. They're among the walking dead now. They just haven't been buried.
RIKER: I want the cloning equipment inspected. Who knows how many tissue samples were stolen. We certainly have a right to exercise control over our own bodies.
PULASKI: You'll get no argument from me.
TROI: I know the Mariposan culture seems alien, even frightening, but really, we do have much in common. They're human beings fighting for survival. Would we do any less?
PICARD: Are you saying we should give them the DNA samples they require?
PULASKI: That's just postponing the inevitable. If they get an infusion of fresh DNA, in fifteen generations they'll just go back to the same problems. Cloning isn't the answer. What they need is breeding stock.
PICARD: The Bringloidi.
TROI: Yes. They have the energy and drive, and the clones possess the emotional maturity and the technological knowledge.
PICARD: They started out together. It seems only fitting they should end up together.
PULASKI: It's a match made in heaven.
RIKER: Unfortunately it will have to be a shotgun wedding.

[Observation lounge]
GRANGER: I'm sorry, Captain, it's out of the question. You're trying to dump your problems on us. We have problems of our own.
PICARD: Don't you understand? The Bringloidi can help you.
GRANGER: Look at him. How could we ever integrate that into our society?
DANILO: You're no prize yourself.
GRANGER: Primitive, hostile, disruptive. It would require enormous effort to even educate them.
DANILO: Oh, forget it, Captain Picard. I'm not going to come in here with my hat in my hand begging charity from this blatherskite.
PICARD: Now stop! I will not allow posturing and bigotry to destroy this meeting. Now please, sit down. Now, Commander Riker has asked that your laboratories be inspected for stolen tissue samples, and I understand his concern. We may have to transport all your equipment here, to the Enterprise.
GRANGER: I see. When reason fails, you'll resort to blackmail.
PICARD: Fine. Destroy yourselves.
PULASKI: It's not so bad, Captain. In fifty years we'll have a new class M planet, complete with cities, and ready for colonization.
PICARD: You see, the end is closer than you like to think.
GRANGER: I don't know. There are so many difficulties.
DANILO: Look, man. We are decent, hard working people. We're willing to learn.
GRANGER: They're so different.
PICARD: It is the differences that have made us strong.
GRANGER: For three hundred years, we have denied the carnal side of our nature. How can we learn to put that aside?
DANILO: Well, you put a young couple together and you let nature take its course.
PULASKI: Now if this is going to work, you're going to have to alter your society, too. Monogamous marriage will not be possible for several generations.
DANILO: I don't quite understand.
PULASKI: Thirty couples are enough to create a viable genetic base. But the broader the base the healthier and the safer the society. So it will be best if each woman, Bringloidi and Mariposan, had at least three children by three different men.
DANILO: I think I could handle that, yes.
GRANGER: Oh, God, it's so
PICARD: Frightening?
GRANGER: Repugnant.
DANILO: So, it's a done deal? And here's my hand on it. Right, now, let's go and stake out my three women. Send in the clones.
PICARD: I must be out of my mind.
PULASKI: Starfleet will probably agree with you.

[Cargo hold]
DANILO: Excuse me, sir. Captain. Thank you. Brenna. Brenna, a word.
BRENNA: Isn't that just like a man! You make these grandiose decisions, but you never stop to consider the poor women.
PICARD: Miss Odell, I
BRENNA: You men draw a mug, and solve all the problems of the world while the beer goes down, but, when it comes to the practical matters, it always falls to the women to make your grand dreams come true.
PICARD: Miss Odell, you were the one who wanted a new home.
BRENNA: But I don't know if I want to be Eve.
PICARD: It's your choice. If you wish, you can stay on the Enterprise. We will drop you at a starbase, then you can go where you wish.
BRENNA: Leave my da?
PICARD: If this is going to work, these people will need your strength, your guidance.
BRENNA: Oh, damn. What does he do again?
PICARD: Prime Minister.
BRENNA: Sounds important.
PICARD: Oh, it is.
BRENNA: Sounds like he might have more than two coins to rub together. Three husbands?

[Transporter room]
PICARD: I thought you might find this interesting, Mister Crusher. Few humans have ever seen an Antedean in the flesh.
PICARD: Welcome. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise.
WESLEY: Are they alright, Captain?
PICARD: Yes. This is their preferred way of space travel.
PULASKI: Their physical condition is good enough, considering the circumstances.
PICARD: It is a self-induced catatonic state. Their way of dealing with the trauma of spaceflight.
WESLEY: Will we try to revive them?
PICARD: No, not until we reach the Pacifica conference, three days from now. Doctor, have you prepared a Sickbay facility to accommodate our guests?
PULASKI: As soon as I can make some adjustments. Their physiology is unusual. You can store them for a few hours?
O'BRIEN: Sure. I'll have them kept out of the way here.
PICARD: Mister Worf, provide security.
WORF: Aye, sir.
WESLEY: What's in that container?
PULASKI: Vermicula. It's their food. When they come out of stasis, they'll be very hungry.
WESLEY: They eat this?
PULASKI: In great quantities.
WORF: What a handsome race.

[Bridge]
RIKER: So what did you think of the Antedeans, Wesley?
WESLEY: They are rather strange-looking, Commander.
DATA: Judging a being by its physical appearance is the last major human prejudice, Wesley.
PICARD: Your point is well taken, Mister Data. I'm sure that to the Antedeans, we are equally unattractive.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by a small transport vessel, just coming into range.
TROI: Oh, my God.
PICARD: What's the problem?
TROI: What's she doing here?
WESLEY: On screen, Captain.
PILOT (screen): Starship Enterprise, come in.
RIKER: We have you on our viewer, pilot.
PILOT (screen): Enterprise, I have a passenger. A VIP passenger who I'm ordered to
LWAXANA (screen): Oh, let me talk to them. I'm sure I'm more articulate than that.
TROI: Mother.
DATA: Captain, we are receiving Starfleet orders granting a Lwaxana
LWAXANA: Lwaxana Troi, daughter of the Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir to the Holy Rings of Betazed.
DATA: Full ambassadorial status, sir.
RIKER: It looks like it's back into that dress uniform, sir.
DATA: And yours as well, Commander. She is listed as representing the Betazed government at the conference.
TROI: Mother, please, don't do this to me.
LWAXANA (screen): Do what to you, Little One? Oh, Jean-Luc. What naughty thoughts. But how wonderful you still think of me like that.

[Transporter room]
TROI: It's so like my mother to do the unexpected.
PICARD: It will be pleasant to have her as a guest of the Enterprise again. Energize.
LWAXANA: Legs! Where are the legs?
TROI: Where they belong, Mother, Right under you.
LWAXANA: Oh, I hate that. I will never completely trust this device, Jean-Luc.
TROI: Captain Picard, Mother.
LWAXANA: Aaagh!
PICARD: Explain to her.
RIKER: I'm sorry they startled you, Mrs. Troi. They're Antedean delegates. They're being stored here temporarily.
LWAXANA: Delegates? Last time I saw something like that, it was being served on a plate. Darling. Well, well, well. And you, Jean-Luc, I wasn't aware you had such handsome legs. My valet is waiting. You may beam him aboard now.
LWAXANA: You remember Mister Homn, of course.
PICARD: It would be hard to forget Mister Homn.
LWAXANA: I retain his services despite the outlandishly lustful thoughts he spews in my direction. You can put that down, Homn. We can't deny the Captain the honor of carrying my belongings.
PICARD: I will not interfere with Homn's duties this time.
LWAXANA: That's not what you're really thinking, Jean-Luc. You forget I'm a telepath.
RIKER: Mrs.Troi, since this obviously significant to you, I'll I'll carry it.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Just down this corridor.
LWAXANA (voiceover): He has nice legs too, Little One. Is he still yours?
TROI (voiceover): Humans no longer own each other that way, Mother.
LWAXANA: Really? That's a custom we may have to introduce again.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: Thank you.
RIKER: Glad to help.
PICARD: Well, I trust you will be comfortable here. If you will excuse me.
LWAXANA: I am be serving a Betazoid dinner of greeting tonight, Captain. It is an ambassadorial function.
PICARD: It sounds delightful.
LWAXANA: He's a fine man. Solid, reliable. He's a little on the stuffy side, but, all in all, he's not that bad.
TROI: I can't believe you, Mother. You sound like you're sizing up a commodity.
LWAXANA: But that's exactly what men are, darling. Especially human men. Was your father ever unhappy with me?
TROI: No. He worshiped you. But I don't think I'll ever learn to see men the way you do.
LWAXANA: You will as you mature, darling. And the men in your life are going to bless you for it. You're so beautiful.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: And she actually complimented Captain Picard on his legs?
DATA: I would have thought a telepath would be more discreet, sir.
RIKER: Exactly the opposite. She knows what's in your mind and she lets you know what's on hers.
PICARD: Gentlemen. I think we must not lose sight of the fact that we're talking about someone who has been granted ambassadorial rank. Even though she may appear somewhat eccentric, Lwaxana Troi must be treated with the appropriate respect. Is that understood? Picard to Pulaski.
PULASKI (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: When did you last time you look in on the Antedean guests?

[Transporter room]
PULASKI: Doing so right now, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Are they still catatonic?
PULASKI: Status of the beings is unchanged. Pulse, still steady. Respiration normal for them.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Understood. Keep me informed. Picard out. I'll be in my quarters. It will be a dress uniform dinner, gentlemen.
RIKER: Sir?
DATA: To which dinner was the Captain referring, sir?
RIKER: Nothing I've been invited to. Any of you? Very interesting!

[Corridor]
PICARD: Doctor? You're not attending the dinner with the rest of us this evening?
PULASKI: I've already eaten, but thanks, Captain.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
PICARD: I seem to be a little early. I'm sure the others will be here soon. The other officers? Commander Riker? Counselor Troi?
LWAXANA: Hello, Jean-Luc. So glad you could come.
LWAXANA: A toast to Earthmen, who, despite their faults, have that unique ability to charm women of all races, in all corners of the galaxy.
PICARD: Speaking on behalf of men of Earth, which is indeed an awesome responsibility, I thank you.
LWAXANA: I know what you're thinking, Captain.
PICARD: You do?
LWAXANA: You're wondering whether I'm seeing any other man. On a serious basis.
PICARD: Well, actually, I wasn't
LWAXANA: I wouldn't worry about it, Jean-Luc. Competition seems to bring out the best in the human male.
PICARD: The fact is, I wasn't expecting this setting. I had assumed that my senior Bridge officers would be attending.
LWAXANA: You never assume anything where Lwaxana Troi is concerned. Betazoid women are full of surprises. Strange, I'm not really very hungry tonight. I wonder what's made me lose my appetite? Any ideas?
PICARD: Of course, you're giving thanks for your food. I'd forgotten about that. I wonder how many other cultures have similar customs.
LWAXANA: I don't know.
PICARD: Well, let's find out. Commander Data?
DATA (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Mrs. Troi and I are having a very interesting discussion about various societies' ways of giving thanks. The Betazoid use of the chime, for instance.
DATA (voiceover): The use of the chime is unique, but not at all dissimilar to the

[Bridge]
DATA: Ooolans of Marejaretus Six, who use two large stones which are continuously struck during the meal. Those at the dinner must eat until the stones are broken.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
DATA (voiceover): Or the oligarchy on Atifs Four, which require a young
PICARD: Data, this is fascinating. Don't you agree, Mrs. Troi? Commander, if your duties permit, why don't you join us for dessert? I'm sure that Mrs. Troi would much appreciate the pleasure of your company.
LWAXANA: What?

[Bridge]
DATA: Indeed, sir. I'm on my way. Data out.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: How could you possibly think I would want to share our special time together with that, that, robot of yours?
PICARD: Because of Data's wonderful after-dinner conversation. His anecdotes are the stuff of legends aboard this ship.
DATA: So, by using the square root of pi and multiplying it by nine to the third power, I was able to accurately calculate the distance between the Omicron system and the Crab Nebula.
PICARD: Fascinating, Data, absolutely fascinating. I'm sure Mrs. Troi would love to hear the one about the anomalous chemical composition of brown dwarf stars.
LWAXANA: Not really.
DATA: Yes, Captain. That is a particularly spellbinding subject. In most stars, the rare Earth element europium is enriched relative to samarium and gadolinium
LWAXANA: Is that so?
DATA: It is. However,

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Your mother seems quite an interesting woman, Deanna.
TROI: Perhaps I should tell you something about my mother's condition at this time.
PULASKI: Condition at this time?
TROI: It's something that occurs to Betazoid females as they enter mid-life. We call it the phase.
PULASKI: Mid-life? As in a human female's menopause?
TROI: Similar. It's only at mid-life that a Betazed female becomes, well, fully sexual, if you know what I mean.
PULASKI: Yes, I think I do. I also think that I saw the Captain on his way to her quarters.
TROI: I wonder if I shouldn't warn him?
PULASKI: No. As ship's Doctor I'd consider it excellent exercise for his reflexes and agility.
TROI: Doctor !
PULASKI: For staying ahead of your mother.
TROI: Yes. An animal is always at its best when hunted.
PULASKI: Or when hunting.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
DATA: And at this point, the second co-orbital satellite avoids a collision with the first.
LWAXANA: Deanna, darling. Thank the Four Deities you're here.
TROI: I hope I'm not interrupting.
PICARD: No, I must, as a matter of fact, be getting back to the Bridge.
DATA: Captain. Perhaps I should remain and further entertain our guest.
LWAXANA: No! I mean, I'm sure you're needed on the Bridge as well.
PICARD: Well, thank you for a delicious meal. We must do this again sometime.
LWAXANA: I know we will.
LWAXANA: Well, Little One, the Captain is every bit as charming as your father was.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Data, you will never know just how much I owe you for that.
DATA: Indeed, Captain? I know many more interesting anecdotes, sir. For example,
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Later.
DATA: Yes, sir.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
TROI: Why would you come aboard at a time like this?
LWAXANA: I had no choice. I was going to Pacifica, you were going to Pacifica.
TROI: Don't be absurd, Mother. You knew what would happen.

[Corridor]
TROI: What stage is it in?
LWAXANA: I have it completely under control.
TROI: What stage is it in?
LWAXANA: Well, far enough along for me to enjoy it, Little One.
TROI: Now I know why you wore that dress.
LWAXANA: Don't be ridiculous. This simple little dress? Nothing provocative about it.
TROI: What are we going to do?
LWAXANA: I'm going to do the only honorable thing there is to do. And I'd say your Captain has the inside track.
TROI: Mother, don't even think it.
LWAXANA: Why not? He was thinking about it all through dinner.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I was what? I tell you, Deanna, for a telepath, your mother's accuracy leaves much to be desired.
TROI: Actually, her telepathic prowess is quite advanced. Except for now.
RIKER: Except for now?
PICARD: Don't misunderstand me, Counselor. Your mother is a beautiful person,
TROI: My mother is beginning a physiological phase. It's one that all Betazoid women must deal with as they enter mid-life.
RIKER: Yes, it's something Troi warned me about when we first started to see each other. A Betazoid woman, when she goes through this phase, quadruples her sex drive.
TROI: Or more.
RIKER: Or more? You never told me that.
TROI: I didn't want to frighten you. She has opted for the only dignified option open to her.
RIKER: Isolation?
TROI: She has decided to focus all of her sexual energy on one male, who will, of course, eventually become her husband. It seems, Captain, that you are the early favorite.
RIKER: Congratulations, sir!
PICARD: I'm not amused, Number One. There must be some way to convince her that it's quite impossible, without offending her.
TROI: You cannot apply human style logic to this, Captain. A Betazoid woman in the phase would be shocked and deeply resentful, should you spurn any such advances. She would take it personally.
PICARD: Well, under the circumstances, I think it would be prudent if I were to make myself less available for the duration of this journey.
RIKER: Agreed.

[Outside the Holodeck]
PICARD: Setting, San Francisco California, United States Of America. The year, 1945 A.D. The office of Dixon Hill, Private Investigator.
COMPUTER: Program complete. You may enter when ready.

[Hill's outer office]
MADELINE: Hi, Dix.
PICARD: Madeline. Good to see you again.
MADELINE: You're too much, Dix. You make it sound like you ain't seen me in a year. You got two calls. They're on your desk.
PICARD: New cases?
MADELINE: Are you kidding? The last time we had a new case, Hitler and Stalin were bosom buddies. The landlord came by. He wants the geetas or he wants you out.
PICARD: The geetas?
MADELINE: The moolah, Dix. The rent. And since we're on the subject, it's been a month since I seen anything. Now I know it's been tough, since you got out of the hospital, but I got responsibilities.
PICARD: Then I suppose I had better get a case.
MADELINE: It wouldn't hurt.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: Unavailable? Ship's business? You mean ship's business takes precedence over me?
TROI: I'm afraid so, Mother.
LWAXANA: Oh, well, he was too old for me anyway. Homn, perhaps we should consider my alternate plan.
TROI: Alternate plan?
LWAXANA: You worry too much, Little One. Your mother has the situation well in hand.

[Hill's office]
MADELINE: There's a gentleman here to see you, Mister Hill. And he doesn't look like a client.
SLADE: Hill? The name is Slade Bender.
PICARD: Excuse me. What can I do for you, Mister Bender?
SLADE: It's about Alva.
PICARD: You'll have to be a little more precise.
SLADE: Okay, you want to play stupid? That's jake with me. A week ago a man came in here. He wanted you to find his girlfriend. Name's Alva.
PICARD: Did I find her?
SLADE: You know, you're getting on my nerves. You found her, all right. Face down in the river.
PICARD: I'm sorry to hear that.
SLADE: Yeah, yeah, we're all broken up about it. Especially the boyfriend, who's been indicted for murder.
PICARD: And what are you here to do? Ask for a refund?
SLADE: Nah, I'm here to kill you!
PICARD: Computer, freeze program. Computer, this isn't what I wanted at all. It's much to violent. I'm here to relax, not to dodge bullets. Reconfigure.
COMPUTER: Please define.
PICARD: More ambience. Less substance.
COMPUTER: Do you wish to leave the holodeck and re-enter, or continue from this point?
PICARD: I will continue.
COMPUTER: Program complete. You may continue.
MADELINE: There's a gentleman here to see you, Mister Hill.
PICARD: Thank you, Madeline.
MAN: You a private dick?
PICARD: That's what it says on my door.
MAN: Is that supposed to be funny? 'Cos if it is, you gotta know that I ain't in the mood for funny. Now, I came here on serious business. There's a job I want you to do for me.
PICARD: Computer, freeze program. Clear. Computer, this still isn't right. One kind of violence is being substituted for another. Reconfigure.
COMPUTER: You may continue.
PICARD: Thank you.
SLADE: You're through ducking me, Hill!
PICARD: Computer, freeze program! Variations on a theme. Computer, perhaps I am not clearly defining my intent.
COMPUTER: The flexibility of the program is limited to the parameters of the Dixon Hill novels.
PICARD: Yes. Of course.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Even in this state, they possess a certain dignity, a graceful countenance.
WESLEY: If you say so, Lieutenant.
WORF: I see. Is this how you felt when you first saw me?
WESLEY: Well, maybe at first, a little. But now that I've seen more Klingons, I've come to think you're handsome for a Klingon. That didn't quite come out the way I meant, sir.
LWAXANA: I still say they look better in sauce. When will the good Captain revive them?
WESLEY: Not until we reach Pacifica, ma'am.
LWAXANA: You seem a fine boy. One day you'll grow up to be a big, strong man. But I'm afraid I cannot afford to wait for you to mature. Now that's more like it. Your thoughts, they're primal, savage. I like that in a man.
WORF: I am not a man.
LWAXANA: Which is in your favor, men so often being irrational and egotistical. But unfortunately, I've grown accustomed to human companionship. Pity. You'd have made a fine choice. Well, who's next, Mister Homn?
LWAXANA: Ah yes. Let's do it, I'm not getting any younger.
WESLEY: What was that all about?

[Hill's outer office]
PICARD: So, Madeline, I'll see you later. Activate program.
MADELINE: Leaving, Dix? You're not to Rex's bar, are you?
PICARD: Rex's bar? Why do you ask?
MADELINE: It's one of the messages I left on your desk.
PICARD: That sounds like an excellent idea. Would you care to join me?
MADELINE: Me? Have a drink with you?
PICARD: Why not?
MADELINE: There ain't no why not about it. It's just that this is the first time you ever asked.
PICARD: Is that a problem?
MADELINE: Not for me, but you'd better take this.
PICARD: Why?
MADELINE: Because if we're going to Rex's bar, you're gonna need it.

[Rex's Bar]
REX: Hey, Dix. What do you know and what do you say? See this? Germany's getting ready to invade England.
MADELINE: Who's going to stop them?
REX: Somebody'd better.
MADELINE: Just as long as it isn't us. The last thing America needs to do is fight in another world war.
PICARD: Actually, the Second World War, although disastrous, did end with the United States taking its place as a dominant world power and cultural influence in the second half of the twentieth century. Additionally, that war was a catalyst of technological advancement. Developments in rocketry and fission resonate on into the twenty fourth century.
REX: I don't know if I should pour you one, Dix. Sounds like you've got a snootful already.
PICARD: What's this?
REX: The usual.
PICARD: Ah, now let me see. That would be Scotch, neat.
REX: What else?
REX: And for the lady?
MADELINE: Rye and ginger.
PICARD: Money. I keep forgetting the need to carry money. I must remember not to let this happen again.
REX: Right. I don't mind you being on the cuff, but you're up the sleeve halfway to my collar.
PICARD: Is that why you wanted to see me, about my bar bill?
REX: No, it's on account of Jimmy Cuzzo.
PICARD: Jimmy Cuzzo. I know that name.
MADELINE: He's why I gave you the gun.
PICARD: What was the name of that case he was involved in? The Parrot's Claw.
MADELINE: Jeez, Dix. Cuzzo's the guy who iced Marty O'Farron. They never would have nailed him if it hadn't been for you. Your testimony got him arraigned.
REX: Yeah. Yours and mine.
PICARD: So you brought me here because you didn't want to face him alone.
REX: I don't want to face him at all. I'm hoping that seeing us together will slow him up long enough to get some things straight.
PICARD: And if it doesn't?
REX: Then you just have to kill him.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Bridge, this is Doctor Pulaski.

[Bridge]
PULASKI (voiceover): We've just completed the transfer. The Antedeans are now in Sickbay.
RIKER: Acknowledged, Doctor.
TROI: Mother, what are you doing here? You can't just stroll on to the Bridge whenever you feel like it.
LWAXANA: I didn't just stroll on, dear. I took the turbo tube, or whatever you call it. The Captain's not here?
RIKER: He is busy elsewhere, ma'am.
LWAXANA: I have other interests as well.
TROI (voiceover): You're scheming something, Mother. Don't try to fool me, I can tell.
LWAXANA (voiceover): You're always so melodramatic, Little One. I'm not scheming, I'm deciding.
TROI (voiceover): Mother, not him.
LWAXANA (voiceover): And why not him? He's adorable.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Pulaski to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
PULASKI: The Antedeans are coming around. They are currently in the early stages of post hibernation.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How long until they're fully conscious?
PULASKI (voiceover): I'd guess it to be a matter of hours now.
RIKER: Very well, I'll inform the Captain. If you'll excuse me, ma'am.
LWAXANA: You're going to see the Captain? But I thought he was tied up on ship's business.
RIKER: In a manner of speaking he is. I'm not going to be disturbing him, I'll just give him the message.
LWAXANA: Excellent timing. Then you may also inform him about us.
RIKER: Us?
LWAXANA: You don't mind if I let our ship's crew know first, do you, William? Friends. Dear friends. You are all invited to a prestigious occasion on the planet Pacifica.
TROI: No.
LWAXANA: There, on the shores of the Western Sea, in a traditional Betazoid ceremony, your Commander Riker and I will be joined in the union of matrimony.
WESLEY: Married?
LWAXANA: Until death us do part.
RIKER: Mrs. Troi, I don't know how to tell you this.
LWAXANA: I know how you feel, dear. You're overwhelmed with excitement. Believe me, I understand. We'll talk about the details later. Right now, there are preparations to be made.
TROI: Why did you stop me? Someone needs to set her straight!
RIKER: I think I'll leave that to the Captain.
TROI: Coward.
DATA: Commander. Are you planning on going into the holodeck?
RIKER: I thought I might. Would you like to join me?
DATA: Could you postpone our departure for just five minutes, sir?
RIKER: No problem.

[Rex's Bar]
PICARD: You said you had responsibilities. What exactly did you mean?
MADELINE: You know about my mother's cousin, the girl from San Antonio I told you about?
MADELINE: Jimmy.
REX: I'm as jumpy as Haircut Lapinski trying to land on a fraction.
RIKER: Sorry to bother you, Captain.
REX: Captain?
PICARD: Call me Dix.
RIKER: Sorry to bother you, Dix, but our two passengers have awakened.
PICARD: Then it's time for me to go.
MADELINE: What about Jimmy Cuzzo? You can't leave Rex to face him alone.
PICARD: I'll be back before Jimmy Cuzzo arrives. I guarantee it will be taken care of. Just relax.
REX: Your friends've got time for one drink, haven't they, Dix?
PICARD: Oh, yes, of course. One more round. These are my associates. This is Nails, from Chicago. And this is
DATA: Carlos.
PICARD: From South America. This is Madeline, my secretary, and I want you to meet Rex. You know, I don't think I ever heard your last name?
REX: Hm. Don't think I have one. Just Rex, that's all. So, fellas, tell me your troubles.
RIKER: Well, troubles. We've got some, Captain. It seems that a certain woman, both wealthy and beautiful, now thinks that that she's going to marry me.
REX: She's got looks and bucks? Sounds like you've got yourself a heck of a deal.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: My fiancé just has to see how I look in this. Come along, Homn.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: Hello, computer? Is Commander Riker still on the Bridge?
COMPUTER: Negative. Riker is currently in holodeck three.
LWAXANA: Holodeck? Where is that?
COMPUTER: Follow the comm. panel lights. They will lead you there.

[Rex's Bar]
REX: Good God, what's that?
REX: I'll bet that's the broad with the big bucks. Come on over here, darlin'. I got the best stool in the house saved for you.
LWAXANA: So, this is where you've been hiding, Jean-Luc. I'm surprised you let this part of the ship get this dirty. Oh, relax, Commander. You've been making your true feelings quite clear. Obviously you feel unable to handle me.
REX: Anyway, why would a beautiful high-class lady like yourself want to hook up with a mug like that? You're too good for him, if you ask me.
LWAXANA: You are a very interesting person.
REX: You're not so bad yourself. In fact, you're as much class as this joint's ever seen. Here. On the house. It's French. Almost.
LWAXANA: This is the most remarkable man. I have never met anyone quite like him.
PICARD: I don't suppose you have.
LWAXANA: He's strong. I get no thoughts from him at all. Nothing. I've never known a man so able to keep his true feelings completely hidden.
PICARD: That's because
LWAXANA: No man has ever been such a mystery to me. I usually know their thoughts before they do.
REX: But not with me, huh?
LWAXANA: No. And I never realized how erotic that could be. Carry my beverage to that table. We have some things to discuss.
RIKER: Should we tell her?
PICARD: I think it would be only fair. But let's allow her the moment.

[Sickbay]
ANTEDEANS: Food. Food. Food. Food. Food.
PULASKI: Worf, the vermicula.
PULASKI: Pulaski to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Doctor.
PULASKI (voiceover): Our passengers are on their feet.

[Rex's Bar]
PICARD: Understood.
RIKER: I'd better get to the Bridge.
PICARD: What's their condition?

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Hungry. Would you like to be shown to your rooms?

[Rex's Bar]
PICARD: Are you coming, Mrs. Troi?
LWAXANA: Not just yet. Tell William I'm sorry, but Rex and I are getting married.
PICARD: Mrs. Troi, your government expects us to deliver you to the conference on time, and that's what I intend to do.
LWAXANA: Pity. Duty calls, darling. But I'll be back for you later.
PICARD: Mrs. Troi, there is something you ought to know about Rex.
LWAXANA: Oh?

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: Imagine, allowing me to go on like that with that man, who doesn't even exist.
TROI: But you always say you like surprises, Mother.

[Transporter room]
LWAXANA: Why are they still here?
RIKER: We thought that since you're going to the same conference, you might like to beam down with the other delegates.
LWAXANA: They're not delegates. Those two are assassins.
ANTEDEAN: That is an outrage! Lies! We demand you transport at once!
LWAXANA: Don't bother to deny it. Your minds are so unsophisticated I can read your thoughts in my sleep. Their robes are lined with ultritium, highly explosive, virtually undetectable by your transporter.
DATA: She is correct, sir. I am detecting large amounts of ultritium.
LWAXANA: Well of course you are. They were planning on blowing up the entire conference.
PICARD: Mister Worf, take them to level five. Disarm them. Hold them for questioning.
WORF: Aye, sir.
LWAXANA: Ah well, I didn't find a mate, but I did save the conference, as well as your reputations. All in a day's work, I suppose.
PICARD: Goodbye Mrs. Troi, and thank you. Energize, Chief O'Brien.
LWAXANA: Jean-Luc. Shame on you for thinking such a thing.

[Data's quarters]
RIKER: Looking good. I'll go five.
PULASKI: Five here.
LAFORGE: And five more.
DATA: I believe the wiser course of action here is to bend.
LAFORGE: You mean fold, Data.
DATA: That is correct. Fold. To bend. To make compact or to capitulate.
WORF: I raise fifty.
DATA: I do not believe Lieutenant Worf understands all the nuances of this betting procedure.
RIKER: I wouldn't be so quick to judge, Data. His pile's a lot bigger than yours.
PULASKI: Than any of ours.
DATA: The cards have been favoring the Lieutenant, but that is the result of random chance, therefore, a temporary condition.
LAFORGE: You hope.
WORF: Talk or play. Not both.
RIKER: Fifty, right?
PULASKI: Fifty is the bet. What's the matter? Feet getting cold?
RIKER: My cards are getting cold. Here you go.
PULASKI: I'm glad you stayed in. I need the chips.
LAFORGE: Talk, talk, talk
PULASKI: Okay, here's the action. Fifty, and another fifty.
LAFORGE: Ouch. Fold, fold, fold
WORF: Your fifty, and fifty more.
RIKER: Love to play, but not with these cards.
PULASKI: Looks like it's just us, handsome. I'll see you.
PULASKI: Beats my straight.
RIKER: The Iceman wins again.
PULASKI: You took my last chip. You could at least smile, Worf.
LAFORGE: Smiling would break his concentration.
WORF: Your deal.
DATA: Geordi.
DATA: The game is seven card stud. After the queen, one-eyed jacks and low card in the hole are wild.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, let me write this down.
WORF: I open with fifty.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Riker. We're receiving a class eleven emergency signal from Starfleet Command.
RIKER: On my way.
LAFORGE: Fifty? You were bluffing.
WORF: Klingons never bluff.
LAFORGE: Yeah, right.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Emergency signal reads as follows. Enterprise to divert to coordinates four-two-three by one one two by five one immediately. Further orders forthcoming.
RIKER: That's it? What's the emergency?
DATA: The message does not elaborate.
RIKER: You'd think they'd at least give us a hint.
CLANCEY: Course laid in, Captain.
PICARD: Warp eight. Whenever Starfleet gets enigmatic, I know we're about to face a challenge. Engage.
DATA: Our destination is a point near the Boradis system.
PICARD: That area was colonized fairly recently, as I recall.
DATA: The first Federation outpost was established thirty four years ago on Boradis Three.
RIKER: Since then, the Federation has colonized several planets in that sector.
DATA: Yet we are not headed for a specific colony. The coordinates given are outside the Boradis system.
PICARD: Any problems reported in that area?
DATA: None, sir.
PICARD: What the devil is going on?
WORF: Captain, Starfleet Command is hailing us.
PICARD: About time. On screen.
GROMEK (screen): Greetings, Captain Picard.
PICARD: My compliments, Admiral Gromek.
GROMEK (screen): Captain, you will soon be joined by a Federation special emissary from Starbase One Five Three. We Are now transmitting the specifics.
DATA: We are receiving, sir.
GROMEK (screen): The rendezvous will be a bit tricky, so it is imperative you reach the intercept point on schedule.
PICARD: Understood. And the mission?
GROMEK (screen): The envoy will fill you in. You are to cooperate fully.
PICARD: Admiral, can you give me any details?
GROMEK (screen): Negative.
PICARD: Admiral, it's a little difficult to prepare for a mission I know nothing about.
GROMEK (screen): I sympathize, Jean-Luc, but Starfleet Command considers this a top security matter. Once the envoy has briefed you, I think you will understand our caution. Gromek out.
RIKER: Data, what ship is carrying the envoy?
DATA: Apparently there were no starships available on Starbase One Five Three. The envoy is aboard a class eight probe.
RIKER: A class eight probe is just over two meters long.
PICARD: Yes, that's true, Number One. But if the transmitters and the sensors were removed and life-support installed, there would be just enough room for one person.
RIKER: And it is designed to travel at warp nine.
DATA: By sending the probe to meet us rather than diverting the Enterprise, they are saving us six point one hours.
PICARD: Obviously Starfleet feels that time is of the essence.
RIKER: But still, to seal someone inside a class eight Probe and launch it off. It's a hell of a way to transport a Federation dignitary.
CLANCEY: Coming to three one mark one one three. i
DATA: We are on a course precisely parallel to the probe, sir.
PICARD: Increase speed to warp eight point nine.
CLANCEY: Eight point nine, aye.
PICARD: Full sensors aft.
WORF: Scanning.
RIKER: Data, if we project our course beyond the rendezvous coordinates, what lies ahead?
DATA: As far as I can determine, sir, very little. There are four colonies in the Boradis system, as well as nine other outposts scattered throughout the sector.
WORF: I have it, sir. Bearing zero five mark two three one. Velocity, warp nine.
CLANCEY: I see it.
PICARD: Adjust speed to intercept.
WORF: Probe is coming up to starboard. Range, eighty two hundred. Tractor beam ready.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Transporter ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Range now seventy five hundred.
PICARD: Steady as she goes
WORF: Probe is standing abeam.
PICARD: Engage tractor.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Transporter beam locked, Captain.
PICARD: Energize.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Probe aboard, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Acknowledged. Number One?
RIKER: I'll welcome our visitor.
PICARD: Resume original course and speed.
CLANCEY: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: All yours, Commander.
RIKER: Something wrong, Doctor?
PULASKI: I'm not sure. The readings are quite interesting.
K'EHLEYR: I greet you. I am K'Ehleyr.
RIKER: nuqneH. qaleghneS.
K'EHLEYR: You speak Klingon.
RIKER: A little. I am Commander William Riker. This is Chief Medical Officer Katherine Pulaski. I hope your voyage wasn't too unpleasant.
K'EHLEYR: Klingons are not supposed to mind hardship. Nonetheless, I am delighted to be out of that damned coffin.
RIKER: I don't blame you. It's not the most luxurious accommodation Starfleet has to offer.
K'EHLEYR: Whoever said that getting there was half the fun never rode in a class eight probe.
PULASKI: How are you feeling? Your vital signs are rather atypical for a Klingon.
K'EHLEYR: No doubt because I am only half Klingon.
PULASKI: Oh?
K'EHLEYR: Yes. My father was Klingon. My mother was human.

[Observation Lounge]
RIKER: Captain, allow me to present Special Federation Emissary K'Ehleyr.
PICARD: Welcome aboard. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. This is Counselor Troi, Lieutenant Commander Data, and this is Lieutenant
K'EHLEYR: Worf. So this is where you've been hiding. I told you we'd meet again. Aren't you going to greet me?
WORF: I have nothing to say to you.
K'EHLEYR: Haven't changed a bit. Well, I missed you, too. Two days ago, Starbase Three Three Six received an automated transmission from a Klingon ship, the T'Ong. That ship was sent out over seventy five years ago.
RIKER: When the Federation and the Klingon Empire were still at war.
K'EHLEYR: The message was directed to the Klingon High Command. It said only that the ship was returning home and was about to reach its awakening point.
PICARD: Which suggests that the crew had been in cryogenic sleep for that long journey.
K'EHLEYR: Exactly.
RIKER: And when this crew is revived?
K'EHLEYR: We'll have a ship full of Klingons who think the war is still going on.
PICARD: So our task is to find the ship, and tell the Klingons they're no longer at war.
RIKER: Why us? Wouldn't a Klingon ship be a better choice?
K'EHLEYR: A Klingon ship, the P'rang, is on its way, but it's two days behind us. That may be too late.
TROI: Why too late?
RIKER: When the T'Ong crew awakens it will be within striking range of several Federation outposts.
DATA: There are thirteen colonies with minimal defenses in that sector.
K'EHLEYR: Nice, ripe targets for a Klingon warship.
TROI: And you believe you can convince these Klingons that the humans are now their allies?
K'EHLEYR: No, not a chance. If you ask me, talking will be a waste of time. Klingons of that era were raised to despise humans. We'll try diplomacy. But I promise you it won't work. And then you'll have to destroy them.
PICARD: No.
K'EHLEYR: No. Captain, these Klingons are killers. You'll have no choice.
PICARD: We shall find another choice. I want options and I want them before we encounter the Klingon ship. Lieutenant, I'm assigning you to help the Emissary. Dismissed.
TROI: I will escort you to the guest quarters.
K'EHLEYR: Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: Sir. I suggest Commander Riker or Data would better serve Special Emissary K'Ehleyr.
PICARD: Are there any personal reasons you don't want the assignment?
WORF: Yes.
PICARD: Any professional reasons?
WORF: No. I withdraw my request, Captain.
PICARD: Good.

[Corridor]
TROI: I didn't know it was possible for a human and a Klingon to produce a child.
K'EHLEYR: Actually, the DNA is compatible, with a fair amount of help. Rather like my parents.
TROI: I know exactly what you mean. My father was human and my mother is a Betazoid.
K'EHLEYR: Really? It was the other way around for me. My mother was human. You must've grown up like I did, trapped between cultures.
TROI: I never felt trapped. I tried to experience the richness and diversity of the two worlds.
K'EHLEYR: Perhaps you got the best of each.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Myself, I think I got the worst of each.
TROI: Oh, I doubt that.
K'EHLEYR: Oh, yes. Having my mother's sense of humor is bad enough. It's gotten me into plenty of trouble.
TROI: And your Klingon side?
K'EHLEYR: That, I keep under tight control. It's like a terrible temper. It's not something I want people to see.
TROI: Everyone has tempers.
K'EHLEYR: Not like mine. Sometimes I feel there's a monster inside of me, fighting to get out.
TROI: And it frightens you.
K'EHLEYR: Of course it does. My Klingon side can be terrifying, even to me.
TROI: It gives you strength. It's a part of you.
K'EHLEYR: That doesn't mean I have to like it.

[Tactical room]
WORF: You are late.
K'EHLEYR: Sorry. Had to make myself beautiful.
WORF: I fail to understand why.
K'EHLEYR: Worf, we're alone now. You don't have to act like a Klingon glacier. I don't bite. Well, that's wrong, I do bite.
WORF: Shall we proceed with our assigned duties?
K'EHLEYR: You weren't this aloof six years ago. Or don't you remember?
WORF: There is nothing wrong with my memory.
K'EHLEYR: Well there's something wrong with the rest of you. You're not even looking at me.
WORF: I am familiar with your appearance.
K'EHLEYR: And it gives you no pleasure to see me again. It isn't as if we tried it and it didn't work, you know. You never gave it a chance.
WORF: I never?
K'EHLEYR: I mean, as I see it, we have some unfinished business, you and I.
WORF: Not as far as I'm concerned. According to the library computer, the captain of the T'Ong is K'Temoc. But there is nothing regarding the ship's mission.
K'EHLEYR: Probably some secret military objective.
WORF: Perhaps, but we have no evidence of that.
K'EHLEYR: Why else would there be no record of the mission?
WORF: The records may simply have been lost.
K'EHLEYR: What does it matter? Our concern is the present, the possible threat.
WORF: And to contend with that threat, we need information.
K'EHLEYR: We have all the information we need.
WORF: That is foolish. Knowing their mission might help us understand them.
K'EHLEYR: There is nothing to understand. These are Klingons. They'll attack. In their minds, we're the enemy, and there's no way we're going to talk them out of that!
WORF: And I do not appreciate being interrupted.
K'EHLEYR: And I do not appreciate wasting my time.
WORF: We were instructed to come up with options.
K'EHLEYR: There aren't any. The assignment's hopeless.
WORF: There are always options.
K'EHLEYR: Oh, are there? Tell me, whatever happened to that wonderful Klingon fatalism of yours?
WORF: My experiences aboard this ship have taught me that most problems have more than one solution.
K'EHLEYR: Starfleet hasn't improved you one bit. You're as stubborn as ever.
WORF: Are you going to carry out your duties, or aren't you?
K'EHLEYR: All right, I will. Upon due consideration of the problem and careful examination of all possible options, my original recommendation stands. Meeting adjourned.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Come.
TROI: You're upset.
K'EHLEYR: Your finely-honed Betazoid sense tells you that?
TROI: Well, that and the table.
K'EHLEYR: I warned you about my Klingon half.
TROI: May I make a suggestion?
K'EHLEYR: I thank you, Counselor. But I don't want any counseling.
TROI: Actually, I was going to suggest something else.
K'EHLEYR: Oh?
TROI: I find the exercise programs on the holodeck rigorous enough to put my mind off most frustrations.
K'EHLEYR: And it'll keep me from wrecking the ship.
TROI: That, too

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Enter program.
K'EHLEYR: Show me the exercise menu. Hold. Calisthenics program of Lieutenant Worf.
COMPUTER: Program complete. You may enter when ready.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister Data?
DATA: Based on the last assumed position of the Klingon vessel, its apparent trajectory, and our estimates of their cruising speed, we should be in scanner range in fifteen hours, eight minutes.
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: Special Emissary K'Ehleyr has declared a short recess, sir. I wish to run a full diagnostic test on all tactical back-up equipment.
RIKER: We just ran a full test of those systems.
WORF: I feel it necessary to check them again.
PICARD: Lieutenant, I commend your diligence. However, I'm concerned that you're working yourself too hard.
WORF: Sir, considering the unknown elements we are about to face
PICARD: Lieutenant, I order you to relax.
WORF: I am relaxd. Yes, sir.
PICARD: I've never before seen the Lieutenant so unsettled.
RIKER: The Iceman's finally melting.

[Battleground]
K'EHLEYR: It's not much of a program.
WORF: Computer, level two.
K'EHLEYR: Some calisthenics programs are better than others.
WORF: You still can make jokes.
K'EHLEYR: You don't like people with a sense of humor?
WORF: I did not say that.
K'EHLEYR: Worf, you're the perfect Klingon. The ultimate minimalist. Talk to me.
WORF: I've noted that some people use humor as a shield. They talk much, yet say little.
K'EHLEYR: Whereas others take a simpler approach. Say nothing.
WORF: When one does not have the words
K'EHLEYR: Or is loath to speak them. Why didn't we do this six years ago?
WORF: We were not ready.
K'EHLEYR: I was.
WORF: No, we were both too young, too unaware. We lacked commitment.
K'EHLEYR: Perhaps we lacked courage as well.
WORF: No longer. tlhIngan jIH.
K'EHLEYR: Wait. You can't mean
WORF: We are mated.
K'EHLEYR: Yes, I know. I was there. But
WORF: And now we must solemnize our union with the oath.
K'EHLEYR: I'm not going to become your wife!
WORF: You already are.
K'EHLEYR: Don't give me that Klingon nonsense.
WORF: You would dishonor our sacred traditions?
K'EHLEYR: They're not sacred. They're absurd! Marrying you is out of the question for a million reasons.
WORF: None of which stopped you earlier.
K'EHLEYR: Worf, it was what it was. Glorious and wonderful and all that, but it doesn't mean anything.
WORF: That is a human attitude.
K'EHLEYR: I am human!
WORF: You are also Klingon!
K'EHLEYR: So that means we should bond for life?
WORF: It is our way!
K'EHLEYR: Yours, not mine!
WORF: tlhIngan jIH!
K'EHLEYR: I will not take the oath!
WORF: Then this night had no meaning. And that, I will not believe.
K'EHLEYR: Believe what you will.

[Bridge]
CLANCEY: Approaching the coordinates.
PICARD: Slow to impulse.
TACTICAL: Short and long-range sensor scans negative, Captain.
PICARD: Lay in a standard search pattern.
CLANCEY: Search pattern laid in.
PICARD: Full impulse. Engage.
RIKER: I hope we find them before they come out of their nap.
PICARD: Agreed. There's not an outpost in this area could defend itself against a Klingon warship.

[Tactical room]
K'EHLEYR: I've been working on our assignment, trying a few computer simulations.
WORF: Your devotion to duty is commendable, if belated.
K'EHLEYR: Unwilling to be alone with me?
WORF: I asked Lieutenant Commander Data to help us analyze the alternatives.
K'EHLEYR: An android chaperon.
DATA: Android, of course, is correct, but I fail to see how chaperon is applicable in this situation.
K'EHLEYR: Never mind. I guess I can't blame you. Tell me one thing. You would have gone through with the oath, wouldn't you? Regardless of the consequences to our careers, to our lives?
WORF: Honor demanded no less.
K'EHLEYR: What do you want? Is honor all you care about? Don't you feel anything else? No comment, huh? Poor android. Whose behavior do you find more perplexing? Human or Klingon?
DATA: At the moment, I would find it difficult to choose.
K'EHLEYR: So would I. Okay. When we locate the T'Ong, there are two possibilities. First

[Observation Lounge]
K'EHLEYR: We find the ship before it reaches the awakening point. In that case, we simply keep the crew asleep.
PICARD: Is that feasible?
LAFORGE: We can beam an away team onto the T'Ong and override the cryogenic controls, sure.
K'EHLEYR: Then we await the arrival of the Klingon ship P'rang.
TROI: So that when the T'Ong's crew awakens, they're surrounded by their fellow Klingons.
RIKER: That would be ideal.
K'EHLEYR: But there's the second possibility. That the crew of the T'Ong has already revived.
LAFORGE: They realize they're in Federation territory and attack the nearest outpost.
TROI: They could have been on a scientific voyage.
K'EHLEYR: Klingons of that ear doing research for its own sake?
RIKER: The point is, they may be reasonable.
K'EHLEYR: The point is that this is beside the point. These are Klingons, at war with us. Whatever their mission was, once they see a Federation target, they'll attack.
PICARD: Could the T'Ong be disabled rather than destroyed?
LAFORGE: We could probably knock out their warp drive engines without damaging the rest of their ship.
K'EHLEYR: That would gain you nothing. Disable the ship, and K'Temoc will destroy it himself.
WORF: Klingons do not surrender.
K'EHLEYR: If we don't reach the T'Ong before its crew wakes up, you have no alternatives.
PICARD: I can't not accept that. There must be some way that we can make the Klingons listen. If we can only convince them
DATA (voiceover): Captain, we are detecting a ship,

[Bridge]
DATA: Bearing three one-six mark four two

[Observation lounge]
DATA (voiceover): Extreme sensor range.
PICARD: Lay in intercept course. Go to yellow alert.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields are up.
K'EHLEYR: Better lock in phasers. This may be the only chance you get.
CLANCEY: Intercept course laid in.
PICARD: Hold this position. Let's see if they've spotted us. Magnification, one hundred. Mister Data?
DATA: Sensors show life forms aboard, but I am unable to ascertain whether they are awake or dormant. However, the vessel's propulsion systems are inactive, so I would hypothesize that the crew is asleep.
DATA: However, I could be in error.
WORF: Shields holding.
RIKER: They've cloaked themselves.
K'EHLEYR: Well, Captain you've had your chance.
LAFORGE: Transferring Engineering to the Bridge.
PICARD: Can you find them?
LAFORGE: I think so. Those old shields weren't particularly efficient at blocking gamma ray output. If I can tune the sensors to a particular band of. There. Got them. Transferring coordinates to helm.
PICARD: Intercept. Warp two.
CLANCEY: Warp two, sir.
K'EHLEYR: Captain let them die like Klingons, in battle. They deserve that much.
WORF: Captain. I have another option.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 42901.3. Despite their cloaking shields, we have located the Klingon vessel, T'Ong. In an effort to avoid further confrontation, we're about to implement the option presented by Lieutenant Worf.

[Bridge]
DATA: The T'Ong has changed course to three two mark eight one. Increasing to warp three.
RIKER: Standard evasive maneuver.
PICARD: Helm, stay with them.
CLANCEY: Yes, sir.
DATA: The T'Ong is now on a heading of four two mark one one three. They are accelerating to warp five.
RIKER: They're going to make a break for it.
PICARD: Overtake, warp eight.
CLANCEY: Aye.
PICARD: Now, put us right in their path and come to a full stop. Full power to shields.
TACTICAL: Full power, sir.
PICARD: Well, we've thrown down the gauntlet. Let's see if they pick it up.
DATA: They are slowing to impulse, sir.
TACTICAL: Phaser hit on forward shields. Firming up now. No damage.
RIKER: I guess we've piqued their interest now.
PICARD: Agreed. Let's give them the chance to look their enemy in the face. Ready, Lieutenant?
WORF: Open hailing frequencies.
TACTICAL: Open, sir.
K'TEMOC (screen): What? What is this?
WORF: Captain K'Temoc, have you lost your mind? Halt your vessel and drop your shields.
K'TEMOC (screen): What treachery is this? By whose authority?
WORF: I am Worf, commanding the Enterprise. And it is you who have committed an act of treason by firing upon this ship.
K'TEMOC (screen): I have standing orders to fire on all Federation ships!
WORF: You fool! Did it not occur to you that the war would be over by now?
K'TEMOC (screen): I have no proof of that.
WORF: Trust your eyes. Or is your brain still stuck in its long slumber?
K'TEMOC (screen): How do I know this is not a Federation trick? How can I be sure?
WORF: Captain, as you are new to this century, I have tried to be patient. But I will tolerate no further insubordination. Drop your shields. Immediately.
K'TEMOC (screen): And if I refuse?
WORF: Then die in ignorance. I can waste no more time on you. Phasers to full power.
TACTICAL: Aye, sir. Phasers ready. Target locked.
K'TEMOC (screen): You dare not destroy us. We are on a crucial mission by order of the Klingon High Command.
WORF: Has the T'Ong dropped its shields?
TACTICAL: No, sir.
WORF: Very well. Fire all phasers.
K'TEMOC (screen): Wait! Lower the shields. I yield command of the T'Ong to you, Captain Worf. Long live the Klingon Empire.
WORF: A wise decision, Captain. Commander K'Ehleyr will board your ship and take command. The Klingon cruiser P'rang will soon arrive and escort you home. And, Captain
K'TEMOC (screen): Yes?
WORF: Welcome to the twenty fourth century.
WORF: I return command of the ship to you, Captain.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Congratulations. A very fine first command. Well done.
RIKER: How did you like command?
WORF: Comfortable chair.
K'EHLEYR: And you wore it well.

[Transporter room]
WORF: One to beam aboard the T'Ong.
O'BRIEN: All set.
WORF: I relieve you.
O'BRIEN: Yes, Lieutenant.
WORF: The Klingon vessel P'rang will rendezvous with you in three days.
K'EHLEYR: In the meantime, I'll begin the assimilation of these Klingons to our era.
WORF: Is there anything else you require?
K'EHLEYR: No. Nothing else. Damn you, Worf. You'd let me go without saying another word, wouldn't you?
WORF: What needs to be said?
K'EHLEYR: Nothing. Everything. We're about to go our separate ways again.
WORF: And that disturbs you?
K'EHLEYR: I hid the truth from you. Last night did have meaning. I was tempted to take the oath with you, but it scared me. I've never had such strong feelings toward anyone.
WORF: Nor have I.
K'EHLEYR: Then it was more than just a point of honor. Maybe someday, when our paths cross again, I won't be as easy to get rid of.
WORF: K'Ehleyr. I will not be complete without you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42923.4. Despite misgivings, I have agreed to Starfleet's request that the Enterprise divert to the Braslota System, to take part in a war game exercise. Joining us as observer and mediator is the Zakdorn Master Strategist, Sirna Kolrami.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Mister Kolrami. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard.
KOLRAMI: Captain. I bring greetings from those at Starfleet Command.
PICARD: Would you care to be shown to your quarters?
KOLRAMI: I require little rest, Captain. I prefer that we commence with our mission.
WORF: Despite their reputations, this Zakdorn does not appear to be a very formidable warrior
DATA: In the game of military brinksmanship, individual physical prowess is less important than the perception of a species as a whole. For over nine millennia, potential foes have regarded the Zakdorns as having the greatest innately strategic minds in the galaxy.
WORF: So no one is willing to test that perception in combat.
DATA: Exactly.
WORF: Then the reputation means nothing.

[Observation lounge]
KOLRAMI: The Braslota System. In orbit around the second planet is the eighty-year old Starcruiser, Hathaway. He is still your first choice?
PICARD: Commander Riker will captain the Hathaway.
KOLRAMI: You will have forty eight hours to ready your vessel before the Enterprise attacks.
RIKER: And we'll experience actual battle conditions?
KOLRAMI: Correct. Engineering will disconnect the Enterprise's weapons and link the system with the modified laser-pulse beam. All hits will be recorded electronically. If the computer registers damage, it will act accordingly, shutting down the affected areas for the appropriate repair time. Additional questions? Captain Picard, it is my understanding that you initially resisted Starfleet's request for this simulation.
PICARD: Yes.
KOLRAMI: May I know why?
PICARD: Starfleet is not a military organization. Its purpose is exploration.
KOLRAMI: Then why am I here?
PICARD: With the Borg threat, I decided that my officers and I needed to hone our tactical skills. In a crisis situation, it is prudent to have several options.
RIKER: I prefer brains over brawn as well. I think it's a waste of effort to test our combat skills. It's a minor province in the make-up of a starship captain.
KOLRAMI: Your objection is noted. Let us hope your distaste for the exercise will not affect your strategic abilities.
RIKER: Mister Kolrami, when I agree to do something. I do it. Do you care to surrender now, Captain?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well, Number One, you are allowed a complement of forty, so select whom you will, save of course Mister Data, who will serve as my first officer during your absence.
KOLRAMI: I had envisioned you defining the crew.
PICARD: On my ship, the leader of an away team has total control of the mission. If you want to judge leadership, why not start at the beginning?
KOLRAMI: Very well, Captain.
PULASKI: My, what a charmer.
PICARD: Doctor.
PULASKI: Captain, he needs an attitude adjustment.
DATA: The Zakdornian culture is replete with self-assuredness and confidence. Seldom is it undeserved. For example, Kolrami is a third level grand master at the game of Strategema.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Another millimeter. That's it. A little more. There. That's excellent.
RIKER: Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: Yes, Commander.
RIKER: You've heard of the simulation aboard the Hathaway?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, and the best of luck to you. I've researched the old Avidyne engines. They're archaic by our standards, very touchy.
RIKER: Anticipating the worst, do you think they can be whipped into shape in forty eight hours?
LAFORGE: I've already taken the liberty of putting together a few necessities.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter!
RIKER: Am I disturbing you?
WORF: Just finished.
RIKER: You know of the simulation. What do you think?
WORF: Waste of time.
RIKER: It's just designed to be an exercise.
WORF: Useless. If there is nothing to lose, no sacrifice, then there is nothing to gain.
RIKER: You mean besides pride. Well, in this case it doesn't matter. I probably haven't got a chance.
WORF: There is always a chance.
RIKER: Slim. The Hathaway's most sophisticated weapon system, even in a computer mock-up, can't hope to defeat the Enterprise.
WORF: Well, still
RIKER: You're out-manned, you're out-gunned, you're out-equipped. What else have you got?
WORF: Guile.
RIKER: Join me.
WORF: The honor is to serve.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Begin long-range scanning of all sectors within three light years of Braslota. How is your crew shaping up?
RIKER: It's complete, but I would like to request an addition.
PICARD: Anyone in particular?
RIKER: With your permission, I would like Acting Ensign Crusher aboard for educational observation.
WESLEY: Thank you, Captain.
RIKER: It appears we will have some time before reaching Braslota. I was wondering if you'd agree to play me in a game of Strategema.
KOLRAMI: Although I am intrigued by the audacity of your request, I can't fathom why you wish the encounter.
RIKER: I enjoy a challenge.
KOLRAMI: Very well. An opponent of limited dimensions can often be quite diverting.
RIKER: Thank you.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: So you're going to beat him?
RIKER: Nope.
LAFORGE: Well, then it's going to be a close one.
RIKER: No.
LAFORGE: But you have got a chance?
RIKER: Nah.
LAFORGE: Are you going to bother to show up?
RIKER: Sure, Kolrami is the best ever at Strategema. Just to get to play him is a privilege.
LAFORGE: Other aside from your being privileged, is there anything else I can look forward to?
RIKER: Nope.
LAFORGE: This is going to be exciting.

[Ten Forward]
PULASKI: Against an opponent of approximate skill, Strategema can last well over one thousand moves.
LAFORGE: I wouldn't bet on us being here that long.
WORF: I have wagered heavily in the ship's pool that you will take him past the sixth plateau.
RIKER: And if I don't?
WORF: I will be irritated.
DATA: Forever curious, this urge to compete.
PULASKI: It's a human response. That inborn craving to gage your capabilities through conflict.
DATA: Doctor, there are other ways to challenge oneself.
PULASKI: Perhaps, but they all lack a certain thrill.
TROI: Data, humans sometimes find it helpful to have an outsider set the standard by which they're judged.
DATA: To avoid deceiving oneself.
PULASKI: Maybe you should challenge Kolrami to Strategema.
DATA: Why, Doctor?
PULASKI: Because when someone is that smug, you occasionally have to deflate them just a little.
LAFORGE: Yeah, Data, I'd like to see your neural flex tear him down a peg.
DATA: To what end?
WORF: Computer. Actuation positions for Strategema. Ready? Begin.
LAFORGE: Come on, Commander, come on now.
TROI: Will.
LAFORGE: You can do it. You can get him. Come on, Commander. Come on, you got him, you got him, watch out. Here you go.
PULASKI: That's it?
RIKER: I'm afraid so.
PULASKI: But but you only made twenty-three moves.
RIKER: Yes. Congratulations. <

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Riker, there's your next challenge.
WORF (voiceover): Away team assembled and ready to transport, Commander.
RIKER: I may get over there and want to come right home.
PICARD: Good luck, Number One. Captain.
KOLRAMI: The simulation will commence in forty eight hours.

[Hathaway Bridge]
LAFORGE: There should be some emergency Bridge lighting here.
WORF: Not good.
RIKER: Ah, you're wrong, Mister Worf. It's fantastic. And it's ours. Mister Worf.
WORF: Sir, Lieutenant La Forge is a superior officer. The honor should be his.
RIKER: Worf, this is a battle simulation. You're my Tactical Officer. I've discussed this with Geordi and we agreed. You need to be at my side.
LAFORGE: Besides, Worf, if Engineering's anything like the Bridge, I'm going to have my hands full.
RIKER: Attention, crew of the USS Hathaway. This is your Captain. Over the next two days, you might lose a lot of sleep, but with your skill and your stamina, we'll have this old lady ready to fly. I want hourly progress reports from all stations. Riker out.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Nice job, Geordi.

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Now, what are the possibilities of warp drive?
LAFORGE: Not good. There are only a few dilithium fragments left in the holding clamps. Even if we had crystals that were intact, there's no anti-matter to fuel the drive.
RIKER (voiceover): Any recommendations?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
WESLEY: We haven't got a prayer.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Would you like to transfer back

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): To the Enterprise, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: No, sir.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Wes, remember our purpose is to improvise,

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): It's the effort that counts.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Open.
KOLRAMI: I believe the rules are understood by all.
PICARD: The weapons conversion, Lieutenant Burke?
BURKE: Complete, Captain.
WORF (screen): Signal received. Locked on.
RIKER (screen): She's really been stripped down, Captain.
KOLRAMI: The only offensive systems you'll need will be simulated by computer.
RIKER (screen): What's the Zakdornian word for mismatch?
KOLRAMI: Challenge. We do not whine about the inequities of life. And how you perform in a mismatch is precisely what is of interest to Starfleet. After all, when one is in the superior position, one is expected to win.
PICARD: Screen off. You have the Bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
KOLRAMI: Lieutenant Commander Data, I am intrigued by your challenge. Doctor Pulaski informed me of your desire to play a game of Strategema.
DATA: But I expressed no such interest.
PULASKI: What Commander Data means is that he would never have asked you himself, but I know he's very interested in pitting his skill against yours.
KOLRAMI: Play against a machine. Why should I wish to?
PULASKI: I don't blame you. It's no fun going into a game when you know you're going to lose.
KOLRAMI: But I wouldn't lose. Now you're no doubt going to tell me that I have to prove it to you.
PULASKI: Come on, Data, you can't let that pass.
DATA: Indeed, I. Cannot.
KOLRAMI: Then you will play for the honor of your ship.
PULASKI: The honor of the ship? It's your reputation that's on the line.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: With my knowledge of the Enterprise's security override, we may be able to convince the sensors that an enemy ship is approaching. Their instruments would lie to them.
RIKER: If you can pull that off, Mister Worf, it might just give us the edge we're looking for.
NAGEL: But what about the viewscreen?
WORF: If I am successful, the computer will project a false image of the enemy ship on the main viewscreen.
RIKER: So unless someone runs to a window and looks out
NAGEL: They're going to fall for it.

[Hathaway Engineering]
WESLEY: The lining's still smooth. We should to be able to do something with these dilithium fragments we scavenged.
LAFORGE: Sure, the system is functional. But without antimatter, what difference does it make?
WESLEY: Geordi, I have to return to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Wes, we've only got thirty two hours.
WESLEY: This is important.
LAFORGE: And this isn't?

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: Attempt the routing bypass here. If it works, they will be surprised.
NAGEL: Where am I going to get the opticable?
WORF: Anywhere.
WESLEY: Captain? I left an experiment running back on the Enterprise. May I go back and shut it down?
RIKER: It's that important?
WESLEY: It has to be monitored. And it is my final grade in plasma physics.

[Bridge]
BURKE: Message from the Hathaway, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER (screen): Request permission for Ensign Crusher to reboard the Enterprise.
PICARD: Why?
RIKER (screen): Apparently he was so anxious to be join the away team, he left a very critical experiment unattended.
PICARD: Have you any objection?
KOLRAMI: He should be escorted, and have no contact with anything save his research.
PICARD: Permission granted. Mister Burke, will you handle that?
BURKE: Aye, sir.
KOLRAMI: I saw no sense in Riker choosing him anyway. Just a non-commissioned child.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: I can't believe I forgot about this. It's a good lesson not to let excitement cloud your thinking.
BURKE: Yeah.
WESLEY: It's very dull. I spent six weeks setting this up.
BURKE: Lot of work.
WESLEY: Oh, no. This is ruined.
BURKE: That's too bad. Look, is this going to take much longer?
WESLEY: I'm going to have to dispose of this safely It's very volatile. I'll beam it off the Enterprise and leave it particalised.
BURKE: Fine, let's just do it.
WESLEY: I'll transfer the coordinates to the transporter room.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: In the present context, what did she mean by bust him up?
TROI: In her own way, Doctor Pulaski was instructing you to take the shortest route to victory.
DATA: As opposed to what?
BURKE: Ready? Begin.
PULASKI: I can't believe it. The computer beaten by flesh and blood.
TROI: You advanced quite far against such a worthy opponent.
KOLRAMI: Thoroughly enjoyable, Mister Data. I am at your disposal for a rematch.
DATA: Thank you, but what would be the point?
PULASKI: How can you lose? You're supposed to be infallible!
DATA: Obviously, I am not.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, where is Commander Data?
BURKE: He has temporarily removed himself from bridge duty, sir.
KOLRAMI: Your crew is excellently trained, Captain. A tribute to your leadership. Although I doubt their extensive preparation will be needed.
PICARD: Why is that?
KOLRAMI: I do not expect Captain Riker will present much of a challenge.
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, may I speak with you in private?

[Ready room]
PICARD: I would like to know the root of your prejudice for my First Officer.
KOLRAMI: Captain, I
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, you have been nothing but denigrating and abusive of Commander Riker since coming aboard this ship. Now I would like some explanation.
KOLRAMI: Having studied William Riker's file prior to this assignment, I have found him wanting.
PICARD: In what regard?
KOLRAMI: His work record is exemplary, but, as you well know, a starship captain is not manufactured. He, or she, is born from inside. From the character of the individual. My interviews have revealed a man who displays circumstantially inappropriate joviality, belying the seriousness of his station.
PICARD: Don't confuse style with intent. Only a fool would question Commander Riker's dedication to Starfleet and the men and women under his command. He is simply the finest officer with whom I have ever served.
KOLRAMI: We shall see if your faith is well founded.
PICARD: The test is if a crew will follow where Commander Riker leads. His joviality is the means by which he creates that loyalty. And I will match his command style with your statistics any time.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
TROI: Data.
DATA: Counselor. Is something wrong?
TROI: That was going to be my question.
DATA: With my repository of knowledge, I expected to perform better against a humanoid life form.
TROI: You know, some of our greatest advances have come from analyzing failure. While it can be ego-bruising
DATA: But Counselor, I do not have an ego.
TROI: Yes. Well, a loss can be disheartening.
DATA: But Counselor, I do not have a
TROI: Data. You can handle defeat in two ways. You can lose confidence, or you can learn from your mistakes.
DATA: That is what troubles me. I made no mistakes. I have conducted a diagnostic check of all of my programs. I am cross-checking with the ship's computer.
TROI: Is that all necessary?
DATA: I believe so. I have proven to be vulnerable. At the present time, my deductions should be treated with skepticism.
TROI: That is why you haven't been on the Bridge.
DATA: Yes. The Captain would be ill advised to rely upon my judgment.
TROI: I think you're really over-reacting. I'm sure you're all right.
DATA: I, however, am not sure.

[Hathaway Engineering]
LAFORGE: Easy now. Is that it?
WESLEY: Yeah.
LAFORGE: Good. Good work. All right, Hand me the connector on that kit.
RIKER: What is that?
WESLEY: My experiment from the Enterprise.
RIKER: Wes?
WESLEY: It deals with high energy plasma reactions with anti-matter.
RIKER: You went back to the Enterprise for that? Wes, you cheated.
WESLEY: No, sir. You told me to improvise.
LAFORGE: The hard part's going to be calibrating the thermal curve necessary to start a controlled reaction.
RIKER: Assuming you can, can you regulate the reaction?
WESLEY: There's just enough crystal to do it. We plan to channel the reaction through the chips.
LAFORGE: Are we good?
RIKER: You're better than good. Great. Brilliant. It's going to be fun. Carry on.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
PULASKI: All right, Data, enough of this.
DATA: Doctor?
PULASKI: How long are you going to sit sulking like Achilles in his tent?
DATA: I am conducting diagnostic
PULASKI: You may be able to sell Troi that story, but not me. You're smarting because you were beaten. Well, it happens.
DATA: No, Doctor, this is not ego. I am concerned about giving the Captain unsound advice.
PULASKI: I wish I had never maneuverd you into playing that game. I'm sorry.
DATA: Why, Doctor? It is done, and perhaps just as well. This has indicated that I am damaged in some fashion. I must find the malfunction.

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER: The simulation begins in one hour.
LAFORGE: You'll have warp drive, Captain, though it may not be what you expected.
RIKER: I think that deserves some kind of explanation.
LAFORGE: We'll have warp one for about
WESLEY: Just under two seconds.
RIKER: That's not long enough for an escape, but used as a surprise it may give a strategic advantage.
LAFORGE: Sir, all of this is theoretical.
RIKER: And if your theory fails to pay off?
LAFORGE: Ever driven a Grenthemen Water Hopper?
RIKER: Yes.
LAFORGE: Ever popped the clutch?
RIKER: You're saying we're going to stall the Hathaway?
WESLEY: And the Enterprise will waltz right over and pulverize us.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Let me try to understand. You're saying that Commander Data is suffering from a profound loss of confidence, and that you believe only I can restore the balance?
TROI: Yes, sir.
PULASKI: Both Deanna and I have tried, but we're not getting through to him.
PICARD: Don't you think you both might be overreacting? Data is not capable of the emotions which you are assigning to him.
PULASKI: The effects are the same, whether they're caused by human emotions or android algorithms. Data's not on the Bridge, and I don't think Data's going to be on the Bridge until we find some way to address his problem.
PICARD: I am less than an hour away from a battle simulation, and I have to hand-hold an android.
PULASKI: The burdens of command.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
PICARD: Commander, I require your presence on the Bridge.
DATA: Captain, with all due respect, perhaps it would be better if you choose another to serve as your First Officer.
PICARD: Data, you are my First Officer.
DATA: I have not been able to isolate the problem, sir. I might make a mistake.
PICARD: Yes, you might. But that does not alter your duty to me and to this ship. Now, do you know how to formulate a premise?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then formulate this one. How do I deal Riker and the Hathaway? I will await your answer on the Bridge. And, Commander, it is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness. That is life.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir.
PICARD: And Data, will you leave your hesitation and self-doubt here in your quarters.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I have several examples of Commander Riker's battle technique. At the Academy, he calculated a sensory blind spot on a Tholian vessel and hid within it during a battle simulation. And as a lieutenant aboard the Potemkin, his solution to a crisis was to shut down all power, and hang over a planet's magnetic poles, thus confusing his opponent's sensors.
TROI: And from these specifics, what general conclusion can you extrapolate?
DATA: Only twenty-one percent of the time does he rely upon traditional tactics. So, the Captain must be prepared for unusual cunning. Counselor, Commander Riker will assume we have made this analysis, and knowing that we know his methods, he will alter them. But, knowing that we know that he knows that we know, he might choose to return to his usual pattern.
TROI: Wait, wait. You're over-analyzing, Data. One cannot deny human nature. What kind of a man is Commander Riker?
DATA: A fighter?
TROI: Yes.
DATA: The weaker his position, the more aggressive will be his posture.
TROI: And he won't give up.
DATA: Then despite whatever options he is given, he must be
TROI: The man that he is. Exactly.
DATA: Is that a failing in humans?
TROI: You'll have to decide that for yourself.

[Bridge]
PICARD: On screen. The hunt begins, Number One.
RIKER (screen): We're ready. Just remember, Enterprise. Captain Riker has never lost.
KOLRAMI: Begin now.
PICARD: Screen off. Set course two two three mark three five seven. Full impulse power. Initiate Kumeh maneuver.

[Hathaway Bridge]
LAFORGE: Kumeh maneuver? Why would they start out with such a recognizable ploy?
RIKER: He's teasing. He wants us to reveal our tactics on his terms. Mister Worf?
WORF: Counter with Talupian maneuver on instrument sighting.
RIKER: Agreed. Three quarters impulse, full on my command. Ensign Nagel, maximum shields. Mister Worf, prepare your little surprise.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Set course three one mark seven three. Present minimal aspect. Ready warp one, optimal spread on simulated torpedoes.
BURKE: Captain. Romulan warship approaching fast from astern.
PICARD: What the?
BURKE: It came from nowhere, sir!
PICARD: Bring us about, Ensign. Maximum shields.
DATA: Disengage modified beams.
PICARD: Full weapon systems. Lock on. Open a hailing frequency.
BURKE: I can't, sir. There's nothing there.
PICARD: Warp three, evasive. Stand by. Disengage weapons and shields. Re-engage modified beam.
KOLRAMI: He's quite good.
PICARD: He's the best.
DATA: Computer reports simulated damage to several aft decks, sir. Repair time, three point six days.
BURKE: How did he do that?
PICARD: Mister Worf must have overridden the sensor codes, played some holographic games. Mister Data, input a new code. Attack posture, circumvental attitude. Prepare beams for photon mode.
BURKE: Bye, bye, Hathaway.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: Computers report heavy damage to Enterprise.
WESLEY: They're moving off, sir. Why not go after them?
RIKER: Because they're not through coming after us. Wesley, Geordi, prepare to warp jump.
LAFORGE: There are no guarantees here, sir.
RIKER: There never are, Lieutenant. I'm going to trust your expertise. Secure your stations. Stand by for my signal.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ready photon torpedoes.
BURKE: Captain, sensors picking up a Ferengi warship closing at warp five.
PICARD: Did you input that new code?
BURKE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I didn't give you enough credit. Continue the simulation.
PICARD: Divert all power to shields!
DATA: Sever modified beams.
PICARD: Stay between the Ferengi and the Hathaway.
DATA: Engage phasers and target.
PICARD: Fire when ready.

[Hathaway Bridge]
NAGEL: That's no ghost attacking the Enterprise. That's real.
WORF: We must assist, sir.
RIKER: With what? We have no offensive weapons.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Where are my weapons?
BURKE: Unavailable, sir! We cannot disengage the modified beams. The connections have been fused.
KOLRAMI: We must retreat!
PICARD: Unacceptable!
DATA: The Ferengi have broken off their attack. Drop shields. Transport the away team aboard.
BURKE: Transporter functions gone, sir.
DATA: Shields reduced to one fifth intensity.
KOLRAMI: Use their moment of indecision to escape!
PICARD: I have forty crewmembers on board the Hathaway.
KOLRAMI: Who should be sacrificed to save a thousand! Acceptable tactical losses, considering the circumstances.
PICARD: Not to me! Notify Starfleet. Priority. Hail the Ferengi on my command. Formulate alternatives.
KOLRAMI: As the Starfleet observer I am ordering you to withdraw!
PICARD: I am the Captain of this vessel! Your order is nullified! Ferengi on main viewscreen.
PICARD: I am Jean-Luc Picard, of the Federation Starship, USS Enterprise. Why have you attacked my vessel?
BRACTOR (screen): Why was your ship combative with another Federation vessel of lesser design? Why do you now protect your former target? What is its value to you?
TACTICIAN (screen): Our probes indicate you were aware of our approach, yet took no action.
BRACTOR (screen): Your answers will dictate our response.
PICARD: We have refrained from launching a counter-attack in the hope that this can be resolved this peacefully.
BRACTOR (screen): Our probes indicate that you are crippled, and the ship you protect has no weaponry, no light speed drive, and only a scarce crew.
TACTICIAN (screen): This makes no sense to us. Unless it contains something very valuable.
BRACTOR (screen): I am Bractor, leader of the Ferengi attack vessel Kreechta. I shall have the secret of the other Federation ship. Surrender it to me, and I will allow your Enterprise to leave unharmed. You have ten of your minutes.
BURKE: Sir, they're massing a surge of power. We're being scanned. They've locked on.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: Our shields will not withstand another assault.
KOLRAMI: Then there are no options. Retreat or die. Captain's log, supplemental. Due to a miscalculation on my part, Enterprise has been subjected a surprise attack by the Ferengi. I find myself with little time to decide the fate of forty of my crew stranded aboard the derelict Hathaway.
PICARD: I am open to suggestions.
BURKE: Captain, we are now capable of launching a limited number of photon torpedoes.
KOLRAMI: I've already given you my advice, Captain. The Hathaway is expendable.
BURKE: Commander Riker is hailing, sir.
PICARD: On screen. Number One, have you been monitoring communications?
RIKER (screen): And Kolrami's right. You've got to save the Enterprise.
PICARD: That would leave you defenseless.
RIKER: When Bractor closes in, we'll hit our warp drive and take our chances.
PICARD: Your what?
RIKER: We have a limited, two-second warp capability.
KOLRAMI: Impossible! That ship was rendered warp inactive.
PICARD: I told you he was the best. I'd like to hear about this, Number One, later. Right now I have to work something out with Mister Data.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Premise. The Ferengi wish to capture the Hathaway believing it to be value. Therefore we must remove the ship from their field of interest.
KOLRAMI: And they will soon relocate it after a two second warp.
PICARD: There is a way. Number One, can you hear this?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir. We're all here.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Waiting for you to pull another rabbit out of your hat.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Mister Data
DATA: On the Captain's signal, we will fire four photon torpedoes directly at the Hathaway.

[Hathaway Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): One millisecond after its detonation, the computer will trigger your warp jump.
LAFORGE: I think I hate this plan. Data, we're not even sure our warp jump

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Will work.
DATA: If the warp engines fail to function, the result could be unfortunate.
WORF (voiceover): Very unfortunate.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: We will be dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain Riker

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I cannot order you to do this.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: What the hell. Nobody said life was safe.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: The advantage is, that it will appear from the Kreechta's perspective as though you were destroyed in the explosion.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: That only deceive them for a few minutes. Their sensors will soon locate us.
RIKER: We'll only need few minutes, Mister Worf, because you're going to prepare another surprise for them.
PICARD (voiceover): Then we're agreed.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: On my mark, four minutes.
DATA: Remember, Geordi, if the implementation is off by a millisecond

[Hathaway Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): The Hathaway will not survive.
LAFORGE: Data, that's the one part of this plan that we're all absolutely sure about.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are we ready, Number One?
DATA: Ready, Captain.
RIKER (voiceover): Ready, Captain.
PICARD: Good luck to both of you. Bractor.
BRACTOR (screen): I will wait no longer, Picard.
PICARD: You needn't. The answer is no. Your actions have been wholly criminal. You will not profit by them.
BRACTOR (screen): You are a fool.
TACTICIAN (screen): How can you stop us?
PICARD: You feel the Hathaway has value? We deny you your prize. Fire!
TACTICIAN (screen): Destroy your own rather than suffer the ignominy of defeat and capture?
BRACTOR (screen): I did not think the Federation had such iron.
PICARD: You had no claim to that vessel. It was ours to destroy.
BRACTOR (screen): As you are ours to destroy.
PICARD: You can try.
TACTICIAN (screen): Enterprise targeted, Leader. Leader, there is another Federation ship closing. A starship!
BRACTOR (screen): Maximum shields! We have been outmaneuverd. Retreat!
BURKE: Captain, our sensors show no Federation starship nearby.
RIKER (voiceover): Of course not, Mister Burke. That was Klingon guile.
PICARD: You made it, Number One. Smooth ride?
RIKER (voiceover): Well, it certainly was different.
PICARD: We'll lock on and pick you up.
RIKER (voiceover): With pleasure, Captain.
KOLRAMI: I must admit your Commander Riker acquitted himself quite admirably. And so, Captain, have you. My report to Starfleet will be most favorable.
PICARD: Thank you. Initiate recovery procedures. Continue repairs. Plot a course for the nearest starbase.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. With the transporter repaired and my crew safely back aboard, we have officially ended our first Starfleet battle simulation.

[Ten forward]
KOLRAMI: Bah!
DATA: Why have you suspended the game?
KOLRAMI: Because this is not a rematch. You have made a mockery of me.
RIKER: Data, you beat him!
DATA: No, sir. It is a stalemate.
WORF: No game of Strategema has ever gone this high.
LAFORGE: What did you do?
DATA: I simply altered my premise for playing the game.
RIKER: Explain.
DATA: Working under the assumption that Kolrami was attempting to win, it is reasonable to assume that he expected me to play for the same goal.
WESLEY: You didn't.
DATA: No. I was playing only for a standoff, a draw. While Kolrami was dedicated to winning, I was able to pass up obvious avenues of advancement and settle for a balance. Theoretically, I should be able to challenge him indefinitely.
PULASKI: Then you have beaten him.
DATA: It is a matter of perspective, Doctor. In the strictest sense, I did not win.
TROI: Data!
PULASKI: Data!
DATA: I busted him up.
ALL: Yes!

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: There you are. What's wrong?
RIKER: Something jabbed me here in the calf.
LAFORGE: O'Brien, Commander Riker's been injured. Lock on and bring him up.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by.
RIKER: Geordi, it's just
LAFORGE: A scratch. Right. Sorry, Commander. We can't take any chances. We're the first survey team to set foot on this planet. We don't know what the risks are.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE (voiceover): O'Brien, what's the hold up?
O'BRIEN: The transporter's detected unidentified microbes in Commander Riker's body.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: Well, can't the bio-filter screen them out?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Apparently not.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: But Doctor Pulaski has been notified.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.
RIKER: I wasn't ready to leave here anyway.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Here's the biofilter's analysis of the microbes.
PULASKI: That's not much to go on.
O'BRIEN: I can override and beam Commander Riker aboard .
PULASKI: No. I'd better go down and make an evaluation there.
O'BRIEN: I hope these are the right coordinates. Just kidding, Doctor. I know how much you love the transporter.
PULASKI: About as much as I love comical Transporter Chiefs.
O'BRIEN: Ready?

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
RIKER: Over here, Doctor.
PULASKI: Fill me in.
RIKER: I was walking along minding my own business, doing a simple geological sweep. Something stuck me in the leg.
PULASKI: Any pain?
RIKER: No. Just a little numb, that's all.
PULASKI: Do you know what it was that stuck you?
LAFORGE: We've been looking for it. No luck.
PULASKI: Well, whatever it was, it left something behind. I'm going to take you up to Sickbay. O'Brien, this is Doctor Pulaski.

[Transporter room]
PULASKI (voiceover): Medical override is authorized.
O'BRIEN: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: This is the strangest feeling. My whole leg just went dead.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 42976.1. During a geological survey on Surata Four, Commander Riker has become infected by an unidentified microbe.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Put your foot where it didn't belong?
RIKER: The Doctor said she was getting bored. I just thought I'd give her a challenge.
PULASKI: That you did. The Commander's nervous system has been invaded by an unknown microorganism. Not a bacteria, not a virus, but with the elements of both. There's the point of entry. The microbes are infecting the great sciatic nerve, and they are multiplying at an incredible rate. There.
PICARD: Can you remove it?
PULASKI: Not surgically. The organisms fuse to the nerve, intertwining at the molecular level.
RIKER: That's why the transporter's biofilters weren't able to extract it.
PULASKI: There's no evidence of nerve damage, but the organisms are impeding nervous function.
RIKER: My leg's still asleep.
PICARD: Prognosis?
PULASKI: The infection is spreading. It will eventually reach the brain.
PICARD: And if it interfered with neural activity there?
PULASKI: Commander Riker could die.
PICARD: How can I help?
PULASKI: I need to know more about its composition.
PICARD: And for that, you need a sample.
PULASKI: Exactly.
PICARD: Commander Data, Mister La Forge, prepare to beam down to the planet.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
DATA: I must reiterate, it would be better if I went alone.
LAFORGE: Don't like my company?
DATA: Your company is not at issue. Your vulnerability to the microorganism is.
LAFORGE: I'll watch where I step. Besides, how do we know that this bug doesn't like androids more than it likes humans?
DATA: Possible, but highly unlikely. In any event, why risk both of us?
LAFORGE: Because I know exactly where Commander Riker was when it happened.
DATA: Mister O'Brien, energize.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: He was right over here.
DATA: I am detecting no animal life within fifty kilometers. However, I am reading extensive animal remains, mostly fossilized.
LAFORGE: A graveyard?
DATA: I do not know.
LAFORGE: Data, that a look at this.
DATA: The structure is rhizomatous.
LAFORGE: Careful.
DATA: I am always careful.
DATA: It appears to be dead.
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. I can see thermal variations. Let it go for a second, Data. Let's try something. Perhaps it likes humans more than androids.
DATA: If you are correct, you are placing yourself in grave danger.
LAFORGE: I'm counting on those great android reflexes of yours.
LAFORGE: That must be what we're looking for.
DATA: I would tend to agree.
LAFORGE: Stand by, O'Brien. Got it. Energize!

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Thanks, O'Brien. Another minute, and we'd have been fossils ourselves.
DATA: Not precisely, Geordi. True fossilization requires several millennia.
LAFORGE: Here's your sample, Captain.
PICARD: Get it to Sickbay right away.
PICARD: Report.
DATA: Captain, Commander Riker's injury was not accidental. Certain vines on the planet evidently seek out warm-blooded beings and deliberately infect them.
PICARD: To what end?
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is conceivable there is a symbiotic relationship involved.
PICARD: Go on.
DATA: There are numerous animal remains in the area, leading me to hypothesize that the vines could be predatory.
PICARD: Vines infect animals in order to kill them?
DATA: It is possible. For Commander Riker's sake, I hope my hypothesis is in error.
PICARD: Unfortunately, Mister Data, your hypotheses rarely are.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: All negative.
PICARD: Is there nothing that will cure this infection?
PULASKI: This microorganism is very mysterious. I can't even figure out what's keeping it alive.
PICARD: Or how to kill it.
PULASKI: Oh, I can kill it but not without destroying the nerves it's inhabiting.
PICARD: I know you're doing your best, Doctor.
PULASKI: My best may not be good enough.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Comfortable?
RIKER: Why wouldn't I be comfortable? They're waiting on me hand and foot. I hope that they don't find out that I'm faking it.
PICARD: I wish you were faking it. I've seen the thorn.
RIKER: Yes, Doctor showed it to me, too. Rather harmless-looking thing, I thought.
PICARD: And deadly. I'm sorry.
RIKER: Well, these things happen.
PICARD: When least expected.
RIKER: I'm surprised they don't happen more often. After all, we are exploring the unknown.
PICARD: And the unknown can be benign or malevolent.
RIKER: Captain, one of the things I've learned anything on these voyages, on this ship, and from you, is that most life forms act out of an instinct for survival, not out of malice.
PICARD: It's an important lesson, and I admire your lack of resentment, Number One.
RIKER: If you drop a hammer on your foot, it's hardly useful to get mad at the hammer.

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD: Anything?
PULASKI: Not yet.
PICARD: What can I do?
PULASKI: You can get out of my hair.
PICARD: Aye aye, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: This bug is persistent, I'll admit that. But I'm not worried. We Rikers are ornery, too. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather once got bit by a rattlesnake. After three days of intense pain, the snake died.
TROI: You're a very entertaining patient.
RIKER: I try.
TROI: Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful.
RIKER: You, of all people, should know.
TROI: You feel what anyone in your position would feel.
RIKER: As the First Officer on this ship, I have to set an example.
TROI: Even now?
RIKER: Now more than ever. Deanna, facing death is the ultimate test of character. I don't want to die, but if I have to, I'd like to do it with a little pride.
TROI: And a lot of impudence.
RIKER: You bet. Dying is bad enough but, to lose my sense of humor? Forget it.
TROI: Imzadi.
RIKER: I haven't given up yet.
PULASKI: It's spread to the spinal column. It's weakening his autonomic nervous system. Judging by its present rate of growth and its infiltration pattern, the infection will spread to the brain within an hour. Medical log, Stardate 42976.3. I can't keep the alien infection from spreading to Commander Riker's brain. Once there, it will kill him by dampening neural impulses. The only way I can keep him alive is to force the neurons to stay active by stimulating them directly with electrical impulses.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Let's proceed.
PULASKI: Good. Stand by with five milligrams of tricordrazine in case of seizure. Here goes.

[The Last Outpost]
RIKER: Tasha? Data? Geordi? Worf? Anybody?

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: We've stimulated random wave activity, but the patterns are dangerously erratic.
TROI: Hang on, Will. Hang on.
PULASKI: The wave patterns are still too irregular.
TROI: Why won't they stabilize?
PULASKI: Wait. I've found the right amplitude. There. The patterns are steadier.
TROI: Is the stimulation preventing the infection from taking hold?
PULASKI: For now. The vertex waves indicate a K-complex corresponding to an REM state.
TROI: He's dreaming.

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Hello!
DATA: Marvelous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants answered. He suggested that I take you with me on the away team I'll be leading.
DATA: I shall endeavor to function adequately, sir.
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record.
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary?
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honors in probability mechanics and exobiology.
RIKER: But your files they say you're a
DATA: Machine? Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little.
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to us?
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways. But I would gladly give it up to be human.
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke.
DATA: Ah! Intriguing.
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data.

[The Dauphin Ten Forward]
WESLEY: What should I say? How do I act? What do I do?
RIKER: Guinan, I need your help. Could you step over here a minute?
GUINAN: Sounds simple enough.
RIKER: Now, the first words out of your mouth are the most important. You may want to start with something like this here. You are the most beautiful woman in the galaxy. But that might not work.
GUINAN: Yes. Yes, it would.
RIKER: You don't know how long I've wanted to tell you that.
GUINAN: But you were afraid.
RIKER: Yes.
GUINAN: Of me?
RIKER: Of us. Of what we might become.
WESLEY: Commander?
RIKER: Or that you might think that was a line.
GUINAN: Maybe I do think it's a line.
RIKER: Then you think I'm not sincere?
GUINAN: I didn't say that. There's nothing wrong with a line. It's like a knock on the door.
RIKER: Then you're inviting me in?
GUINAN: I'm not sending you away.
RIKER: That's more than I expected.
GUINAN: Is it as much as you hoped?
RIKER: To hope is to recognize the possibility. I had only dreams.
GUINAN: Dreams can be dangerous.
RIKER: Not these dreams. I dream of a galaxy where your eyes are stars and the universe worships the night.
GUINAN: Careful. Putting me on a pedestal so high, you may not be able to reach me.
RIKER: Then I'll learn how to fly. You are the heart in my day and the soul in my night.
WESLEY: I don't think this is my style.
GUINAN: Shut up, kid. Tell me more about my eyes.

[The Icarus Factor Troi's office]
RIKER: I didn't want to leave without saying goodbye.
TROI: I don't like goodbyes. How about, until next time.
RIKER: How about, until next time.
TROI: It's been a pleasure working with you, Commander.
RIKER: The feeling is mutual, Counselor.
TROI: I'm supposed to know how everyone feels, but I can't read you right now.
RIKER: Perhaps your own feelings are getting in the way.
TROI: My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings are beside the point.
RIKER: Not to me. Our feelings are what make us all human.
TROI: Are you feeling sad?
RIKER: Yes, I am.
TROI: So am I.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's relaxd. Experiencing feelings of warmth and friendship.
PULASKI: He's reliving memories. It's a natural side effect of neural stimulation. Look at this. The organisms' metabolism has changed. I wonder if the stimulation is affecting them somehow. I'm going to refocus the impulse pattern on the interpretative cortex.
TROI: To intensify his memories?
PULASKI: Exactly. We'll see if that has an effect on the microbes.

[Justice Edo Council Chambers]
RIVAN: Everyone! We've brought the visitors.
LIATOR: Please, enjoy what we have.

[11001001 Bourbon Street Bar]
RIKER: Gentlemen, if this is what you call enhancement, you've got a gift for understatement. What's a knockout like you doing in a computer-generated joint like this?
MINUET: Waiting for you.
RIKER: Waiting for me? You can't be serious?
MINUET: Oh yes, Will. I've never been more serious in my life.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Something wrong?
TROI: No, it's just that Commander Riker's emotions are rather passionate.
PULASKI: As in erotic?
TROI: Very much so.

[11001001 Bourbon Street Bar]
MINUET: A dream? Is that what this is? Is that what I am?
RIKER: I know you are a computer-generated image, but your smell, your touch, the way you feel. Even the things you say and think seem so real.
MINUET: Thank you.
RIKER: How far can this relationship go? I mean, how real are you?
MINUET: As real as you need me to be.

[Angel One Beata's quarters]
BEATA: You resist. Don't you find me attractive?
RIKER: Yes, I find you very attractive.
BEATA: You attract me like no man ever has.
RIKER: It's not my function to seduce or be seduced by the leader of another world.
BEATA: It's not the reason.
RIKER: No, it's not. But will you still respect me in the morning?
BEATA: I hope so.

[Up The Long Ladder Riker's quarters]
BRENNA: William, is something wrong?
RIKER: What do you mean?
BRENNA: Do you not like girls?
RIKER: Of course I do. Oh, is there a technique to this foot washing?
BRENNA: You generally start at the top and work your way down.
RIKER: I think I can handle that.
BRENNA: I was hoping you might.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: The organisms responded all right. Their growth rate has doubled.
TROI: Then all we've done is made things worse.
PULASKI: Now we know the organism's growth rate is related to the memories he's experiencing.
TROI: Or the emotions that they produce.
PULASKI: Different mental processes generate different chemicals. Perhaps the organisms are sensitive to brain endorphins.
TROI: Then if some types of endorphins attract them
PULASKI: Others will repel them. I'm going to change the differential current pattern and see what happens.

[Skin of Evil]
TASHA: We're not going without our shuttle crew.
ARMUS: I warn you.
TASHA: Enough! We have people who need attention. We won't hurt you, but we must help them.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One!
RIKER: The creature attacked us. Lieutenant Yar is down.
DATA: It seems to feed on our phaser energy.
RIKER: We had no effect on it.
PICARD: What's Lieutenant Yar's condition? Doctor Crusher, report!
CRUSHER: She's dead.

[The Child Troi's quarters]
PULASKI: I'm losing life signs.
TROI: You must save him.
PULASKI: I'm sorry.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Growth rate has definitely slowed. What is he feeling? Can you tell?
TROI: Sadness.
PULASKI: Which is the opposite of before, and it's having the opposite effect on the infection.
TROI: Then your theory's correct. The organisms are sensitive to different types of endorphins.
PULASKI: And negative emotions
TROI: Such as sadness
PULASKI: Produce endorphins that inhibit the organisms' growth.
TROI: Then we've found a way to repel the infection.
PULASKI: Assuming we're not too late already.
TROI: How much time do we have?
PULASKI: I'm not sure. His vital signs are getting weaker. I don't want to risk another dose of tricordrazine unless I have to. I must refocus the pattern again. We need to isolate memories that generate stronger negative emotions.

[A Matter of Honor Pagh Bridge]
RIKER: I have been assigned to serve this ship and to obey your orders. And I will do exactly that.
KARGAN: Will you take an oath to that effect?
RIKER: I just did.
KLAG: Do not believe him! He lies!
KARGAN: Speak in their language. This is your Second Officer, Lieutenant Klag.
RIKER: Is there something you wanted to say to me, Lieutenant?
KLAG: Yes sir. I do not believe you.
RIKER: Then I take it you challenge my authority over you.
KLAG: Correct.
RIKER: And your position on this, Captain?
KARGAN: I would say it your first command decision.

[Conspiracy Quinn's quarters]
RIKER: Ready for your tour, Admiral?
QUINN: Quite ready, Commander.
RIKER: What's in the case?
QUINN: Actually, I brought it for Doctor Crusher. But perhaps you would like you to see it first?
RIKER: What is it?
QUINN: A form of life. It was discovered accidentally by a survey team on an uncharted planet.
RIKER: Why haven't we heard anything about that?
QUINN: Oh, you'll be hearing about it shortly, but first there remains much scientific study to be done. After all, it is a superior form of life.
RIKER: Superior?
QUINN: Totally. Come, have a look.
RIKER: I think I'll summon my Science Officer.
QUINN: It won't like your Science Officer. It does like you! Vitamins. They do wonders for the body.
RIKER: Riker to Security. Guest quarters seventeen. Emergency.

[Skin of Evil Sickbay]
PULASKI: We've reduced the growth rate even further, but not enough. And his vital signs are deteriorating.
TROI: But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings were primal. Survival emotions.
PULASKI: They must be producing a type of endorphin that's poisonous to the organisms.
TROI: Can't you intensify that emotion?
PULASKI: I can refocus the impulse pattern even tighter. But I don't know if he can withstand it. He's extremely weak.
TROI: Do we have a choice?
PULASKI: No. If we don't neutralize the infection, within half an hour he'll be dead. Medical log, supplemental. Commander Riker's condition is still critical. I've discovered a way to reverse the infection's growth rate, but I may be too late.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's getting weaker, isn't he?
PULASKI: Respiration shallow, heartbeat extremely irregular, but we can't delay any longer.

[Symbiosis Observation lounge]
T'JON: You will take us to our planet and leave us there with our medicine or this person dies. Don't you see I have no choice? We were sent to bring the felicium back. The suffering on my planet is too great. People are dying. It doesn't matter whether we're entitled to it or not. We must have it.
PICARD: Let him go.
T'JON: You will take us there now, or give us a shuttle. But we must have the medicine. If you refuse, this person will die.
PICARD: I will not be coerced.
T'JON: I will do it. I will kill him.

[The Last Outpost]
RIKER: Who are you?

[Skin of Evil]
RIKER: Help! Data, something's got me!
ARMUS: Touch him and he dies.
RIKER: No! No, don't!
DATA: Enterprise?

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
PICARD: I'm beaming you up.

[Planet surface]
ARMUS: If any of you leave now, he dies.

[Bridge]
ARMUS (voiceover): And so do the survivors of the crash.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: The growth rate's down to seven percent. The organisms are still impairing his neural functions. Respiration's erratic, pulse grossly irregular, blood pressure almost nil. Tricordrazine.
TROI: Can we tighten the pattern further?

[11001001 Engineering]
COMPUTER: Recognize Picard, Jean-Luc, Captain. Recognize Riker, William T, Commander.
PICARD: Set auto-destruct sequence.
COMPUTER: Does the First Officer concur?
RIKER: Yes. Set auto-destruct sequence. Now.
COMPUTER: Auto-destruct will detonate in four minutes and fifty-nine seconds.

[Heart of Glory Batris]
KORRIS: I am Korris.
RIKER: We'll handle the formalities later. Right now we have to get off this ship. Are there any others survivors?
KORRIS: No.
DATA: I believe I have found a quicker way out of here, sir.
RIKER: Check him out.
DATA: He is alive, sir, but just barely.
RIKER: Then pick the body and let's get out of here.
KORRIS: No. I will carry him.
DATA: As you wish.
LAFORGE: Come on, let's go!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Tasha, go to transporter room three. I want you there when the away team returns.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, we are out of time. This ship is blowing.
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got a lock on us?

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Too much interference. You have to get farther away from the Engineering section.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris is imminent.
PICARD: They're out of options. Do it!

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Now!

[Sickbay]
TROI: The growth rate's almost down to zero.
PULASKI: That's not good enough.

[Conspiracy Room]
REMMICK: We seek peaceful co-existence. (T'Jon attacks Riker. Quinn shoots at Picard and Riker at Starfleet Headquarters. They set Autodestruct again. Data tries to fix the computer in Naked Now. Armus grabs him again. He fights Klag. 'Autodestruct'. The Loud as a Whisper assassin gets killed. Klag's head goes into the computer panel. 'Now'. The Lantree goes Bang. 'Now'. Batris goes Boom. Remmick and the parasites get phasered to atoms. 'Now.' Tsiolkovsky gets smashed by the stellar matter.)

[Sickbay]
RIKER (voiceover): Data, something's got me!
PULASKI: Sickbay to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Doctor?
PULASKI: We've eradicated the infection.
PICARD (voiceover): I'm on my way.
RIKER: You're still here?
TROI: I could ask you the same question.
PULASKI: How do you feel?
RIKER: Beat. You wouldn't believe the dreams I was having.
TROI: Oh yes we would.
PULASKI: You'll be pleased to know that we've terminated the infection.
RIKER: Great work, Doctor. Now, if I can get out of here, I'd like to get back
PULASKI: Lie still. I have a few dozen tests to run first.
RIKER: Why? I feel fine.
PULASKI: There may be some residual memory loss. I just want to be sure you still know who you are.
RIKER: Of course I know who I am. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
PICARD: I'm delighted that you're feeling better, Captain. The Admiral and I were worried about you.
DATA: Captain, I do not believe you have the authority to promote me to the rank of Admiral.

[Ten forward]
DATA: Captain. Doctor. I am honored by your presence, but may I suggest you attend the second concert.
CRUSHER: Why, Data?
DATA: Ensign Ortiz will perform the violin part. My rendition will be less enjoyable.
PICARD: Oh?
DATA: Although I am technically proficient, according to my fellow performers, I lack soul.
CRUSHER: Data, telling us why you're going to fail before you make the attempt is never wise.
DATA: But is not honesty always the preferred choice?
PICARD: Excessive honesty can be disastrous, particularly in a commander.
DATA: Indeed?
PICARD: Knowing your limitations is one thing. Advertising them to a crew can damage your credibility as a leader.
DATA: Because you will lose their confidence?
CRUSHER: And you may begin to believe in those limitations yourself.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we're receiving a message from the Sheliak Corporate.

[Bridge]
WORF: Origin point of the message confirmed, sir. It is from the Shelia star system.
RIKER: The Sheliak have not attempted to communicate with the Federation for a hundred and eleven years. Why are they doing it now?
PICARD: On screen.
SHELIAK (voiceover): Federation creatures, there are humans on the fifth planet of Tau Cygna. This planet was ceded to the Corporate in section one hundred and thirty-three, paragraph seventy seven of the Treaty of Armens. We will begin settlement of this world in four days. Remove the humans.
PICARD: What the devil?
SHELIAK (voiceover): Federation creatures, there are humans on the fifth planet
PICARD: Cancel message.
RIKER: Tau Cygna Five is in the de Laure Belt. Heavy concentrations of hyperonic radiation.
PICARD: Humans can't survive in that environment. Exposure to hyperonic radiation is fatal.
RIKER: Then the Sheliak are asking us to chase ghosts.
PICARD: No, Number One. The Sheliak haven't broken a century of silence to send us after phantoms. An investigation is in order. Set course for Tau Cygna Five.
WORF: Captain, human life form readings from the planet.
RIKER: So the Sheliak weren't hallucinating.
PICARD: Numbers?
WORF: Impossible to get an accurate reading. High levels of radiation are disrupting our sensors.
DATA: Hyperonic radiation also interferes with ship's transporters. They are now inoperable.
WORF: So are the ship's phasers.
RIKER: How can humans survive down there?
CRUSHER: They must have found a way to adapt. Milan's work with radiation sensitivity suggests it is possible. Perhaps with extensive viral therapy.
PICARD: Well, whoever they are, and however they survived, we've got to get them off the planet.
RIKER: By treaty, that world still belongs to the Sheliak.
PICARD: Who are within their rights to demand the removal of these trespassers.
RIKER: And if we don't remove them, the Sheliak will. Forcefully.
CRUSHER: How forcefully?
RIKER: The Sheliak consider humans a lower life form. They would have no compunctions about exterminating the intruders.
PICARD: Mister Data, as you are unaffected by hyperonic radiation, I'd like you to go to the planet via shuttlecraft and commence evacuation procedures.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, any speculation on what we might find down there?
RIKER: My guess would be a lone survey ship. Maybe a dozen or so survivors.

[Planet surface]
HARITATH: I think it's some sort of shuttlecraft.
KENTOR: Where's it from?
HARITATH: Look at the markings. It must be from the Federation.
DATA: Greetings, gentlemen.
HARITATH: We saw your ship You're the first visitor we've had in
KENTOR: The first visitor we've ever had.
HARITATH: You're not human.
DATA: That is correct. I am an android. I am Lieutenant Commander Data of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
HARITATH: Our great-grandparents were citizens of the Federation. But you don't want to waste time talking to us.
KENTOR: You want to speak to Gosheven. We'll take you to him.
HARITATH: I'm sure the Federation will be very proud of us. Wait until you see all we've accomplished.
DATA: And who, precisely, is us?
HARITATH: Don't you know? Oh, no, I don't guess you would. We're descendants of the original settlers, from the colony ship Artemis.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Got it. The Artemis. Launched ninety two years ago. Destination Septimus Minor. When they failed to check in, Starfleet began an extensive search.
PICARD: What carried the Artemis

[Planet surface]
PICARD (voiceover): So far off course?
DATA: My local informant does not have that information. In the early days on Tau Cygna Five, survival was more important than history.
PICARD (voiceover): Understood. How many are there?
DATA: Fifteen thousand two hundred fifty three, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Fifteen thousand!
RIKER: Three days, no transporters. We'll never get them out in time.
PICARD: Shuttles?
WORF: Loading all the Enterprise shuttlecraft to capacity, evacuation will take four weeks, four days.
PICARD: We need more time. Mister Data, prepare the colonists for an evacuation.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Get me the Sheliak.
WORF: Their home world is quite distant, Captain. This will take some time.

[Main square]
HARITATH: Gosheven, look what's come.
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data of the Starship Enterprise.
KENTOR: He's an android.
GOSHEVEN: So he is. Well, now that you're here, what do you want?
DATA: My mission is to prepare this colony for evacuation.
GOSHEVEN: Why?
DATA: Because this planet belongs to the Sheliak.
GOSHEVEN: And who is this Sheliak?
DATA: The term is plural. The Sheliak are a non-humanoid, intelligent life form, classification R3.
GOSHEVEN: Well, this colony's been here over ninety years. We've never seen a Sheliak. I'd say that makes Tau Cygna Five our planet.
DATA: The original destination of the Artemis was Septimus Minor.
GOSHEVEN: The guidance system on the Artemis failed. Took them off course. Far off course. Our ancestors were lucky to find any place to land.
HARITATH: And when they did, the radiation started killing them.
GOSHEVEN: Hyperonic radiation took the lives of a third of the colonists before they learned they could adapt to it.
KENTOR: But our colony survived and prospered.
GOSHEVEN: Look around. We have brought water to the desert, built a community.
DATA: Your accomplishments are truly remarkable. Yet the Sheliak and the Federation have a treaty which clearly makes this planet Sheliak domain.
GOSHEVEN: Then change the treaty.
DATA: That may not be possible. The Sheliak wish to colonize this planet, and are unwilling to share it with humans. If you are still here when the Sheliak colony ship arrives, they will eradicate you.
HARITATH: They'd kill all of us?
DATA: They have little regard for human life. Thus, the most sensible course is to prepare a contingency plan for the evacuation of your people.
GOSHEVEN: We're not evacuating.
DATA: Perhaps I have not made myself clear.
GOSHEVEN: Yes, you have. Let me be equally clear. There's going to be no evacuation. You've delivered your message, so go back to your ship. I have work to do.
ARD'RIAN: Nice catch. Wonderful reflexes. Sorry to test you like that, but I was curious.
GOSHEVEN: Found a new toy, have we, Ardi?
ARD'RIAN: Toy? This is the most incredible android I've ever seen.
DATA: Have you seen many?
ARD'RIAN: Actually, no. You're the first.
GOSHEVEN: Only you would get this excited over a walking calculator.
ARD'RIAN: Cybernetic intelligence fascinates me. Are your neural pathways duotronic?
DATA: No, positronic.
ARD'RIAN: I didn't know that was possible! What's your memory capacity? How many operations per second? I have a million questions.
DATA: I'm afraid I have no time to answer a million questions. I have a mission to accomplish. I need to know more about your people, and Gosheven seems unwilling to talk to me further.
ARD'RIAN: I'm Ard'rian McKenzie. Perhaps I can help you.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Gentlemen, we're giving you an assignment. One thing we don't want to hear is that it is impossible.
PICARD: I need the transporters to function despite the hyperonic radiation.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but that's im. Yes, sir.
RIKER: Even if we get the Sheliak to talk, they're not likely to be accommodating.
TROI: Captain, when the treaty was first negotiated the Federation sent three hundred and seventy two legal experts. What do we have?
PICARD: Thee and me?

[Bridge]
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Try them again. Boost the signal strength.
WORF: Sheliak Corporate. This is the starship Enterprise. Respond please.
SHELIAK (screen): Conversation is neither required nor desired.
PICARD: Conversation is necessary if we are to find a solution to our mutual problem.
SHELIAK (screen): Our involvement in Federation illegality is not indicated.
PICARD: Both parties are involved, sir.
SHELIAK (screen): Remove the humans from the Tau Cygna system. Three Earth days remain.
PICARD: Let us negotiate in good faith.
SHELIAK (screen): Negotiate to what purpose? The treaty is signed.
PICARD: There is a thriving colony on that planet. Rather than uproot these people, may I offer a compromise?
SHELIAK (screen): Denied.
PICARD: Why?
SHELIAK (screen): The law is paramount. We are entitled.
PICARD: This is not a law. It is a treaty. It is designed to smooth relations between peoples. Not to act as a strait
PICARD: Jacket.

[Ard'rian's home]
ARD'RIAN: You really think we'll have to leave Tau Cygna Five?
DATA: The possibility does exist, yet Gosheven seems unwilling to prepare for it. Why?
ARD'RIAN: Maybe because you're an android. I don't think Gosheven likes the idea of machines ordering him around.
DATA: I am not ordering him to do anything. I am merely trying to persuade him that his people should prepare to evacuate. Do you believe my suggested course of action should be followed?
ARD'RIAN: Of course.
DATA: In spite of the fact that I am an android?
ARD'RIAN: Because of that fact. I don't have any silly prejudice against computers. I like them. Not that any computer we have is half as sophisticated as you are.
DATA: No, I would say not.
ARD'RIAN: People can be selfish, irrational, stubborn, malicious, you name it. But computers don't have those failings.
DATA: And you conclude because of this that I am impartial. Hence, you accept my recommendations? Yet Gosheven does not.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Commander Data.
DATA: Data here.
PICARD (voiceover): The Sheliak won't bargain.
DATA: Understood, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm contacting Starfleet to arrange transport. Get those people prepared to evacuation. We may have to move quickly.

[Ard'rian's home]
DATA: Aye, sir. We must speak to Gosheven immediately.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Gentlemen, how's it coming? What the hell is that?
LAFORGE: Our first attempt.
RIKER: Keep at it. We need those transporters.

[Main square]
GOSHEVEN: You see this? Do you have any idea what it is, or what it means?
DATA: It is water. A substance composed of two atoms of hydrogen
GOSHEVEN: It's not water. It's blood and it's sweat. It's the result of a ninety years of combined effort. This isn't a town. It's a monument to every man, woman, and child who's lived and died on Tau Cygna Five.
ARD'RIAN: Gosheven, you're talking nonsense.
GOSHEVEN: Am I? My grandfather is buried on that mountain. He died in a rock slide surveying the route for this aqueduct. This colony exists because of his sacrifice, and the sacrifice of thousands of others. No, we're not leaving.
DATA: The Sheliak will not accept humans on their planet, And they will not hesitate to use force to remove you.
GOSHEVEN: We will not be bullied off our land. Not by you, and not by the Sheliak.
ARD'RIAN: Stubborn and irrational. Now what do we do?
DATA: Are his sentiments typical of the colonists?
ARD'RIAN: I hope not.
DATA: If I can convince enough people of the necessity of leaving
ARD'RIAN: Don't you mean, if we can convince?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Yes, sir?
PICARD: Three weeks. Starfleet is profuse in their apologies, but it will still be three weeks until the arrival of a colony transport ship equipped with dedicated personnel shuttles.
RIKER: We can't wait three weeks.
PICARD: Then the Sheliak must agree to extend our deadline. They plan to settle Tau Cygna Five two days from now.
RIKER: One of their ships must already be en route.
PICARD: We're going to intercept that ship.
RIKER: The Sheliak may interpret that as a hostile act.
PICARD: A risk we have to take.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The Enterprise is going to try to intercept the Sheliak colony ship. Your job well, you know what your job is.
DATA (voiceover): Commander.

[Main square]
DATA: In human parlance, I do not believe I can get the job done. My training has prepared me for starship command duties. As a cultural contact I am proving to be

[Observation lounge]
DATA (voiceover): Less than exemplary.
RIKER: What's the situation?
DATA (voiceover): Their leader refuses my counsel.

[Main square]
DATA: He denies the logic of my arguments and speaks of structures they have built.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Then try something else.
DATA (voiceover): I have, sir.

[Main square]
DATA: In the last three hours and eight minutes, I have spoken to fifty six colonists. Ten of those refused to believe a threat exists. Twenty two favor staying and fighting the Sheliak. Sixteen prefer negotiation or

[Observation lounge]
DATA (voiceover): Some form of passive resistance. Only eight were willing to consider evacuation. And of those eight
RIKER: Data, I can't help you. I don't know these people. I haven't talked to them. You have. Use that fancy

[Main square]
RIKER (voiceover): Positronic brain of yours and carry out your mission.
DATA: Sir, if I do not succeed, how violent is the Sheliak reaction likely to be?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The treaty is the only thing that prevented them from eradicating the colony the moment they discovered it.

[Main square]
DATA: Ah.
RIKER (voiceover): Ah is right, Data.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The lives of fifteen thousand people are riding on you.

[Main square]
RIKER (voiceover): You'd better get innovative. Riker out.
ARD'RIAN: Data? We're having an effect. So many people are asking questions about the Sheliak that Gosheven has called a public meeting.
DATA: Is there any indication that Gosheven has changed his position?
ARD'RIAN: No. But a meeting will give you the chance to present your recommendations.
DATA: So far, my attempts at persuasion have been ineffective.
DATA: Why did you do that?
ARD'RIAN: You appeared to need it.
DATA: Among humans, a kiss usually serves to seal a friendship, or indicate support, attraction, affection. In this context, I must assume that your intention was to express support.
ARD'RIAN: You don't really understand human behavior, do you?
DATA: That is something of an understatement.
ARD'RIAN: Sometimes I don't either. androids are a lot more rational.
DATA: Thus far, that quality has not helped me to accomplish my mission.
ARD'RIAN: A rational argument isn't always enough. Maybe to be more persuasive, you need to use a little reverse psychology.
DATA: Elicit a desired behavior by advocating its opposite. That implies deception, does it not?
ARD'RIAN: A little. But if it helps us get our point across.
DATA: Perhaps this is a situation where excessive honesty can be detrimental.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Now, are we progressing, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: About like you'd expect, sir.
PICARD: Splendid. Splendid. Carry on.
WESLEY: He wants the impossible.
LAFORGE: That's the short definition of Captain.

[Main square]
GOSHEVEN: You've all heard of the android Starfleet sent here, and you've been discussing why he's come. I've called this meeting to replace misinformation with cold, hard fact.
DATA: I wish to speak.
GOSHEVEN: No. Leave now.
DATA: Do you consider your position so weak that it cannot withstand debate?
HARITATH: Let him talk.
DATA: You know of the Sheliak threat. Starfleet wishes to evacuate you for your own protection. Yet Gosheven has decided otherwise. That is his right, And I will not waste time trying to reverse that decision. I admire your conviction in the face of certain defeat. Though doomed, your effort will be valiant. And when you die, you will die for land and honor. Your children will understand that they are dying for a worthy cause. Long after the battle is over, their courage will be remembered and extolled.
ARD'RIAN: Remembered by who?
DATA: Yes, that is true. There will be no one left alive to remember.
GOSHEVEN: A valiant try, android, but what a low opinion you must have of us.
DATA: I was simply attempting to describe your inevitable destruction in a manner that would have an emotional effect.
HARITATH: And he describes it pretty damned well.
GOSHEVEN: Are you ready to follow this machine? Give up without a fight? He says we're going to lose, but I think that's just his cowardice talking!
KENTOR: What if he's right and you're wrong? Shouldn't we consider that possibility?
GOSHEVEN: This colony exists because generations gave their lives for it. Many people died before we found a way to adapt to the radiation. And many more died bringing water to the desert. My grandfather
ARD'RIAN: Is buried on that mountain. Well, who'll be left to bury you?
GOSHEVEN: Have you considered what this evacuation means? Everything we have, we abandon. Everything that we have built turns into dust. Everything that we have accomplished means nothing. Well, I say no. You elected me your leader. Follow me now. I don't think our chances are as hopeless as he says. And I'm willing to stake our lives on it. Any objections? Good, because here we stand.
ALL: Aye, We stand with you.
DATA: Then here you die.
HARITATH: Mister Data, I just want you to know that Gosheven doesn't speak for all of us. I see no reason to die needlessly.
DATA: And you?
KENTOR: I'm not sure. Gosheven's done well for us, but I'd like to hear more of what you have to say.
HARITATH: There are many others that feel the same way but they're very uneasy about confronting Gosheven.
ARD'RIAN: Get them together and we'll meet at my house.

[Ready room]
TROI: In our dealings with other non-humanoid races there has been some point of reference. Not so with the Sheliak.
PICARD: But we must have something in common. We communicate.
TROI: Barely. They have learned several Federation languages, but theirs continues to elude us.
PICARD: Telepaths?
TROI: Attempted and failed. Actually, the fact that any alien race communicates with another is quite remarkable. We are stranded on a planet. We have no language in common, but I want to teach you mine. S'smarith. What did I just say?
PICARD: Cup? Glass?
TROI: Are you sure? I may have meant liquid, clear, brown, hot. We conceptualize the universe in relatively the same way.
PICARD: Point taken.
TROI: In your talks, you must be extremely accurate. The treaty is five hundred thousand words. The length was to accommodate the Sheliak. They consider our language irrational, and demanded this level of complexity to avoid any future misunderstandings.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we have the vessel carrying the Sheliak colonists on visual.
PICARD: On my way. So, it begins.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise.
SHELIAK (screen): Your purpose, Enterprise?
PICARD: We desire face-to-face negotiation to settle the crisis on Tau Cygna Five.
SHELIAK (screen): Meaningless.
PICARD: We are entitled to consultation under paragraph six hundred and fifty three subparagraph nine.
SHELIAK (screen): Granted.
RIKER: Was that an invitation?
PICARD: I am taking it as such. Counselor. You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Helm, maintain relative position. Mister Worf, tell transporter room two to stand by.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ard'rian's home]
KENTOR: And once the Federation resettles us, we'll be left alone?
DATA: If you so desire.
HARITATH: We do. We like to do things on our own.
DATA: The Federation will offer as little or as much help as you dictate.
ARD'RIAN: Kentor, are you with us?
KENTOR: Yes. The question is, how do we convince Gosheven?
HARITATH: Why do we need to?
KENTOR: Because he's respected. Most people will do what he says.
ARD'RIAN: They respect you, too. If you take a stand, they'll fall in line.
KENTOR: I don't know. Gosheven's got a lot of supporters.
GOSHEVEN: Don't forget that, Kentor. I'm disappointed. I thought we'd settled this.
DATA: Apparently, that is not correct.
GOSHEVEN: Still stirring up trouble?
ARD'RIAN: Since when is talk trouble?
GOSHEVEN: It's over. Don't you get it? You had your say. You lost.
DATA: I appear to be reversing that defeat.
GOSHEVEN: No, you're not. You're just stubborn. Well, let me tell you something.
GOSHEVEN: So am I.
ARD'RIAN: Damn you, Gosheven.
HARITATH: You killed him?
GOSHEVEN: I've killed no one. I merely shut down a machine. That's it, everyone. It's time to go home. You'll see that I'm right.

[Sheliak ship]
SHELIAK: Advance and speak.
PICARD: Director, we will comply with your request to remove the colony from Tau Cygna Five, but we need time.
SHELIAK: The given time has elapsed. We carry the membership and we will proceed with their debarkation.
TROI: The temporary presence of these humans should not interfere with your plans.
SHELIAK: Unacceptable. You must remove the creatures.
PICARD: I'm trying, but the needed ship will not be available for three weeks.
SHELIAK: Then you are in violation.
PICARD: I have admitted that. I am only asking for a little flexibility.
SHELIAK: Section five hundred and one, paragraph seven hundred and sixteen, subparagraph five. Unwanted lifeforms inhabiting H class worlds may be removed at the discretion of the Sheliak Corporate.
PICARD: We will remove them, but you must grant us the time we require.
SHELIAK: You need time, Picard of the Enterprise? We will save you time. We will eradicate the human infestation.
PICARD: They are not vermin. They are citizens of the Federation. I will not permit this outrage!
SHELIAK: Intelligent converse is impossible. You do not discuss, you gibber.
PICARD: Between intelligent species of good will

[Bridge]
RIKER: I take it the Sheliak just hung up on us again.

[Ard'rian's home]
ARD'RIAN: I was afraid your neural pathways were scrambled beyond repair.
DATA: I am equipped with diagnostic circuits and am able to correct many malfunctions.
ARD'RIAN: I'm not surprised at Gosheven's behavior. But Kentor and the others, they said they were with us. I guess words don't mean very much.
DATA: Perhaps that is a part of our difficulty. Words are all we have been using. Humans seem to take much stronger notice of actions. I require a phaser.
ARD'RIAN: What's a phaser?
DATA: A type of weapon. Unfortunately it does not function in the presence of hyperonic radiation. I will have to be innovative.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Hyperonic radiation randomizes phaser beams. But I believe I can improvise a servocircuit which will compensate by continuously recollimating the output.
ARD'RIAN: You're using your own neural subprocessors to build a smarter phaser.
DATA: Essentially correct. Get word to Gosheven. Tell him I am coming to the pumping station. Tell him I am going to destroy the aqueduct.
ARD'RIAN: He'll try to stop you.
DATA: I sincerely hope so.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Riker, put us nose to nose with the Sheliak ship. Any move she makes, match it.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, hailing frequency.
WORF: Open. They are not responding.
PICARD: They don't have to answer. They just have to listen. Sheliak vessel, you will have to get past me to get at the colony on Tau Cygna Five.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Close channel. And get me that treaty. They've been beating us over the head with it for three days. Let's see if we can't find something in it that we can turn to our own advantage.

[Main square]
DATA: Stop. That was the stun setting. This is not.
DATA: I can reduce this pumping station to a pile of debris, but I trust my point is clear. I am one android with a single weapon. There are hundreds of Sheliak on the way and their weapons are far more powerful. They may not offer you a target. They can obliterate you from orbit. You will die never having seen the faces of your killers. The choice is yours.
KENTOR: There are other places, other challenges.
GOSHEVEN: I really was willing to stay here and die for this.
DATA: I know that. This is just a thing, and things can be replaced. Lives cannot.

[Bridge]
WORF: This is hopeless. Fighting would be preferable.
PICARD: That's it.
TROI: I don't follow you, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, get me the Sheliak.
WORF: Yes, sir. Coming through, sir.
PICARD: Pursuant to paragraph one thousand two hundred and ninety, I hereby formally request third party arbitration of our dispute.
SHELIAK (screen): You have the right.
PICARD: Furthermore, pursuant to subsection D three, I name the Grisellas to arbitrate.
SHELIAK (screen): Grisellas?
PICARD: Unfortunately, they are currently in their hibernation cycle, However, they will awaken in six months, at which time we can get this matter settled. Now, do you want to wait or give me my three weeks?
SHELIAK (screen): Absurd. We carry the membership. We can brook no delay.
PICARD: Then I declare the treaty in abeyance,
SHELIAK (screen): Wait! Negotiation is permiss
RIKER: You enjoyed that.
PICARD: You're damned right.
WORF: Captain, they are hailing us.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: On screen.
SHELIAK (screen): You may have your three weeks, Picard of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Thank you.
LAFORGE: Captain, we can do it. We can modify the transporters.
PICARD: Excellent.
LAFORGE: It'll take fifteen years, and a research team of a hundred.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I believe we will postpone.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data to Enterprise. I am preparing to leave Tau Cygna Five and await rendezvous instructions.
WORF (voiceover): Acknowledged. Stand by.
ARD'RIAN: Hi. The evacuation plan is going well. When the ship arrives, we'll be ready to leave. You succeeded.
DATA: I could not have succeeded without your support and insight. I am grateful for your assistance.
ARD'RIAN: Good. Then you won't forget me.
DATA: I am incapable of forgetting. I will remember every detail of my visit here with perfect clarity.
ARD'RIAN: But nothing more?
DATA: I do not understand.
ARD'RIAN: I guess what I really want to know is, do you have any feelings for me?
DATA: I have no feelings of any kind.
ARD'RIAN: No, of course you don't.
ARD'RIAN: What was that for?
DATA: You appeared to need it.
ARD'RIAN: So you saw I was unhappy and did what you concluded would make me feel better. Rational to the last.
ARD'RIAN: Bye.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Welcome home, Mister Data. Well done.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: The good doctor was kind enough to provide me with a recording of your concert. Your performance shows feeling.
DATA: As I have recently reminded others, sir, I have no feeling.
PICARD: It's hard to believe. Your playing is quite beautiful.
DATA: Strictly speaking, sir, it is not my playing. It is a precise imitation of the techniques of Jascha Heifetz and Trenka Bronken.
PICARD: Is there nothing of Data in what I'm hearing? You see, you chose the violinists. Heifetz and Bronken have radically different styles, different techniques, yet you combined them successfully.
DATA: I suppose I have learned to be creative, sir, when necessary.
PICARD: Mister Data, I look forward to your next concert.

[Laboratory]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Ensign Crusher.
WESLEY: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Forget to set your alarm, Wesley?
WESLEY (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Laboratory]
WESLEY: I'm very sorry. I'll be right there. this.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43125.8. We have entered a spectacular binary star system in the Kavis Alpha sector on a most critical mission of astro-physical research. Our eminent guest, Doctor Paul Stubbs, will attempt to study the decay of neutronium expelled at relativistic speeds by a massive stellar explosion which will occur here in a matter of hours.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Ensign, our position.
WESLEY: Approaching one million kilometers from the neutron star, sir.
RIKER: Slow to one third impulse power.
STUBBS: Spectacular, isn't it, my young friend?
WESLEY: Yes sir.
STUBBS: Over and over again, the intense gravitational pull of the little neutron star sucks up the star material from the red giant, and it builds up on the surface until it explodes, every one hundred and ninety six years. Like clockwork. And it is but eighteen hours away.
DATA: Eighteen hours, seven minutes, and ten seconds, Doctor.
STUBBS: The interstellar counterpart to Earth's Old Faithful. The only predictable burst of energy in the universe that can accomplish our goal.
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, if you would like to make one final inspection of the unit.
STUBBS: Captain, I've been inspecting the Egg for the last twenty years. You may lay it when ready.
PICARD: Begin launch sequence.
RIKER: Shuttlebay two, stand-by to launch the Egg.

[Shuttlebay]
CREWMAN: Standing by, Commander.

[Bridge]
DATA: Five minutes to launch site.
PICARD: Stabilize.
WESLEY: The ship isn't responding, sir.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Checking for failure of inertial dampeners. Instruments say they're working

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we're heading straight into the path of that stellar matter.
PICARD: Shields up.
WORF: Negative. The shields will not respond.
DATA: Thirty seconds to impact, sir.
PICARD: Manual override on shields.
WORF: Shields are rising.
RIKER: Reset dampeners.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Dampeners not responding.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Unable to reset.
PICARD: Reverse impulse engines.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Initiating reverse sequence, now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Our momentum is still carrying us into the path of the stellar matter.
DATA: Twelve seconds to impact, sir.
RIKER: Prepare for impact. Medical personnel, report to the Bridge. Commander Data, check all systems.
DATA: All systems functioning normally, sir.
PICARD: Computer, explain control malfunction.
COMPUTER: No control malfunction has been recorded.

[Sickbay]
NURSE: Lay down carefully. There you go.
WESLEY: Doctor Stubbs, the captain asked me to tell you that our systems are back to normal, and we can try another launch attempt as soon as you're ready.
STUBBS: Quite a dynamic family team, you Crushers.
CRUSHER: Well, it's nice to be together again. I was at Starfleet Medical for a year. I missed about two inches of him.
STUBBS: I'm not sure I'd want my mother to be flying through space with me. No, I take that back. I am sure. I wouldn't want her. My mother is a formidable woman, too. A woman of letters. A great critic.
WESLEY: I know.
STUBBS: Good Lord, son. You didn't read that unauthorized biography? Is this all this boy does, Doctor? Fly the ship and read? Doesn't he ever have any fun?
CRUSHER: Sure he does.
WESLEY: Actually, most of my free time is taken up with my studies. I'm trying to get into Starfleet Academy, and I earn credits for the time spent on the Enterprise, but it's just not the same.
NURSE: Are you ready to sit up?
STUBBS: Well. I am whole again. Thank you, Doctor. Come along, Wesley. Let's go see if Humpty Dumpty is still in one piece.
CRUSHER: Computer, fix the food slot.
COMPUTER: The food slot is functioning properly.
CRUSHER: Well, check again.
COMPUTER: The food slot is functioning properly.
CRUSHER: Computer, deactivate food slot.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're analyzing the engineering systems data, Captain. So far we're showing nothing unusual

[Ready room]
LAFORGE (voiceover): In the computer log for that time period.
PICARD: Run a level one diagnostic series. Come. I want a computer that's one hundred percent to expedite Doctor Stubbs' experiment. As well as the food slots in Sickbay. Picard out.
CRUSHER: Which seem to be working again, for the moment anyway.
PICARD: What can I do for you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, how would you feel if you were a seventeen year old and the only Starfleet Officer whose mother was on board?
PICARD: Inhibited, I suppose. But then, I'm not Wesley. And if you are concerned about him, I see no evidence that there is a problem.
CRUSHER: I know, but, in a funny kind of way, that's exactly my point. We talk. We smile. It's almost too polite.
PICARD: Beverly, isn't it just a matter of time? I know how difficult it was for you being away.
CRUSHER: Tell me about him.
PICARD: Well, he's becoming a very fine officer. He works as hard as any member of the crew. Riker says his studies are on line.
CRUSHER: No. Tell me about him.
PICARD: He's his father's son. Honest, trusting, strong.
CRUSHER: Does he have many friends? Has he ever been in love? Jean-Luc, I'm worried. He's come so far, so fast, And since I've been back, I don't feel
PICARD: His dependence. Beverly, look, he's seventeen years old.
CRUSHER: What were you doing when you were seventeen?
PICARD: Probably getting into more trouble than Wesley, I can assure you.
CRUSHER: So was I. Isn't that what seventeen's supposed to be?

[Shuttlebay]
STUBBS: No cracks in the armor. We'll do just fine.
WESLEY: How can you be so calm about this? If I was about to make this kind of breakthrough
STUBBS: I have never doubted for a moment that this day would come, Wesley. And I suspect that some day it will come for you as well. I see a lot of me in you. In my youth, they called me a vunderkind. Do you understand vunderkind?
WESLEY: It's German, isn't it?
STUBBS: It means wonder child. It is reserved for those of us who achieve early in life. Now the burden is yours.
WESLEY: Burden?
STUBBS: To fulfill your potential. You will never come up against a greater adversary than your own potential, my young friend.
WESLEY: Red Alert. Return to quarters immediately.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Still no visual contact. That's impossible. Mister Worf, same magnification fifty degrees starboard.
RIKER: Worf, you're absolutely sure?
WORF: Sensors clearly indicate the approach of a Borg vessel.
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Shields are not responding.
LAFORGE: Manual override is jammed. It's not going to work this time. We don't have the shields, Captain.
WORF: Captain, they're firing energy weapons at us.
PICARD: Evasive action.
RIKER: Bring her round to two seven five mark three.
PICARD: Predict current vector of Borg ship.
WORF: Vector. Is gone. And so is the Borg vessel.
PICARD: You're telling me this is another computer glitch?
DATA: It is conceivable that he was viewing a synthetically generated image, sir.
RIKER: That our computer was daydreaming?
PICARD: Computer, identify malfunction immediately.
COMPUTER: Pawn to Bishop Four. Knight to King's Rook Three. Bishop to Queen's Bishop Four. Knight to Knight Five. Queen's Knight to King Two.
DATA: Controls are not responding, sir.
COMPUTER: Queen to Bishop Three. Bishop to Bishop Two.
LAFORGE: Impulse engines are down.
RIKER: Try warp engines.
LAFORGE: No. Sorry, Commander. I'd better get back to Engineering
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want Lieutenant Worf to accompany you. Get me a full report on the prospects of getting our shields back. Number One, Mister Data, will you join me in the conference room as soon as possible. It's time to discuss the future of this mission, if there still is one.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: The fact of the matter is, we are dealing with a potential breakdown of the main computer.
RIKER: That's hard to accept.
DATA: The system automatically provides for self-correction, Captain. There has not been a systems-wide technological failure on a starship in seventy nine years.
TROI: Excuse me, Captain, but Doctor Stubbs is waiting outside.
STUBBS: Captain, I'm sure you have everything under control. I'd just like to know what's going on.
PICARD: Of course, Doctor. Sit down. Counselor. Commander La Forge is attempting repairs even as we speak.
STUBBS: Attempting. That doesn't sound particularly reassuring.
PICARD: Doctor, if at all possible, we will continue this mission as planned.
STUBBS: Captain, if we miss our chance now, we don't get another for two centuries. There will be many questions asked by Starfleet if the Enterprise fails in its duty
PICARD: Nevertheless, my first and foremost consideration will be to ensure the safety of this ship and its crew.
STUBBS: Ensure the safety, Captain? Or are you really talking about playing it safe?
PICARD: My dear Doctor, in our current position, when that star explodes, you'll get to watch your experiment from the inside out.
STUBBS: I would rather die than leave.
PICARD: I don't believe you speak for the majority of the crew.
TROI: Doctor Stubbs, I know how much this means to you.
STUBBS: My dear Counselor, no insult intended but please turn off your beam into my soul. I will share the feelings I wish to share. Well, if we do not leave in time, so be it. It's one sure way into the record books, eh?
TROI: His nonchalance is studied and practiced.
PICARD: Even my sensory perception picked that up.
TROI: He's put his entire self-worth on the line with this experiment. He is telling the truth when he says he'd rather die than leave.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Call up the cross-section of computer core processor four five one. I want to see elements zero two hundred through zero three hundred.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: In order to get some power, I had to by-pass the computer core. Essentially hotwire the connection. Whoa, whoa, right there. Look at that lesion. No wonder we're coming apart at the seams. It's definitely some kind of continuing disintegration, but from what I can't tell you. And I haven't the slightest idea how to stop it.
WESLEY: It's just a mechanical problem, though, right?
LAFORGE: Increase magnification, factor fifty. I don't know, Wes, but looking at it. You know, if I didn't know any better, I'd say someone had climbed in there and started taking it apart.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Guinan! I didn't think anyone would be here.
GUINAN: I've never been any good at being confined to quarters, as my husbands will attest to. What's that?
WESLEY: I'm just setting traps.
GUINAN: I run a clean place.
WESLEY: I know. It's not that. It's. I'm scared, Guinan. I think that everything that's been going wrong might be my fault.
GUINAN: You want to tell me about it?
WESLEY: I've been working on my final project for Advanced Genetics. It's on nanotechnology. I've been studying the nanites we have in the Sickbay genetic supplies. They're these little tiny robots with gigabytes of mechanical computer memory. They're designed to enter living cells and conduct repairs. They're supposed to remain confined to the lab.
GUINAN: Are you saying there are nanites loose?
WESLEY: Two of them, that's all. I just wanted to see how they would interact and function in tandem. You see, in my experiment, I had proposed a theory that by working together they could combine their skills and increase their usefulness. It was working.
GUINAN: So you made better nanites.
WESLEY: I was pulling an all-nighter to collect my final data. I fell asleep. And when I woke up I saw the container had been left open. It's just a science project.
GUINAN: You know, a doctor friend once said the same thing to me. Frankenstein was his name.
WESLEY: They're really harmless. I mean, they're equipped with only the most basic skills. It's almost impossible they could be responsible
GUINAN: Almost.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher to Wesley Crusher.
WESLEY: Go ahead.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I stopped by your quarters, Wes. I assumed you'd be there, since you're off duty.
WESLEY: I know. I just I had some things to do
CRUSHER (voiceover): Orders are orders, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: On my way. You won't tell anybody, will you? I know. I will. If it's true.
GUINAN: Wes, do you think you're going to get a good grade?
WESLEY: I always get an A.
GUINAN: So did Doctor Frankenstein.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our computer core has clearly been tampered with and yet there is no sign of a breach of security on board. We have engines back and will attempt to complete our mission, but without a reliable computer, Doctor Stubbs' experiment is in serious jeopardy.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Manual restart sequence.
LAFORGE: Manual restart successful. Impulse engine functions all appear normal.
PICARD: Proceed.
RIKER: Shuttlebay two, open hangar door.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Shuttlebay]
CREWMAN: Door did not respond.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN (voiceover): Repeating sequence.
PICARD: What in heaven's name?
DATA: It is 'Stars and Stripes Forever'. sir, by John Phillip Sousa, a popular American composer of band music in the early twentieth century.
PICARD: Yes, yes, I know that.
RIKER: Computer, shut off the music!
DATA: The music is on all communications channels, sir.
RIKER: Weapons. power, communications. We're being stripped one system at a time.
PICARD: Shut off the power to the Bridge.
PICARD: Commander La Forge, can you get us out of this star system safely?
STUBBS: No!
RIKER: Not now, Doctor.
LAFORGE: I'll try, Captain. I don't want to overload the engines.
PICARD: Do it gently. But do it.
RIKER: We'll circuit in auxiliary power to the Bridge. Somehow we'll silence Sousa if he decides to play an encore.
PICARD: The priority is to find out who or what is doing this. Number One, the Bridge, such as it is, is yours.

[Shuttlebay]
STUBBS: The Egg that Stubbs laid.
WESLEY: No one will say that.
STUBBS: Nobody will say anything at all, Wesley. We will not even be mentioned. I could live with failure. Well, maybe not. But never even to try. To miss your one chance at bat. Do you know baseball?
WESLEY: Yes, my father taught it to me when I was young.
STUBBS: Once, centuries ago, it was the beloved national pastime of the Americas, Wesley. Abandoned by a society that prized fast food and faster games. Lost to impatience. But I have seen the great players make the great plays.
WESLEY: Do you recreate them on a holodeck?
STUBBS: No. In here. With the knowledge of statistics, runs, hits and errors, times at bat, box scores. Men like us do not need holodecks, Wesley. I have played seasons in my mind. It was my reward to myself for patience. Knowing my turn would come. Call your shot. Point to a star. One great blast and the crowd rises. A brand new era in astrophysics. Postponed one hundred and ninety six years on account of rain.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: We have to talk. You really look like you could use some rest, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know. It's okay. Really.
CRUSHER: No, it's not okay. Really.
WESLEY: Look, mom, I'm just checking some traps that I set to see if I can find out what's happening to the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: On someone's orders?
WESLEY: We're running out of time for Doctor Stubbs.
CRUSHER: You can't put everything on your shoulders, Wesley. Even when you're off duty, you're on duty.
WESLEY: Mom, you don't understand.
CRUSHER: You are a seventeen year old boy.
WESLEY: I'm also an acting officer and I have responsibilities.
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think maybe you've taken on too many responsibilities.
WESLEY: Look, I have done everything that everyone has asked of me and more. And how can you know? You haven't even been here.
CRUSHER: I'm here now, Wesley. Come on, I'll help you. What are you looking for? Wesley?
WESLEY: I think I've made a horrible mistake.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Nanites. Tiny machines built from the atom up. Designed to have exposure only to the inside of nucleii during cellular surgeries. Until then, they are kept tightly confined in a non-functioning state.
DATA: These are not ordinary nanites.
CRUSHER: No, they have evolved.
STUBBS: Evolved? How does a machine evolve?
WESLEY: It's true. I am responsible for this. I allowed two of the nanites to interact for a school project. I wanted to increase their capabilities. And they escaped.
PICARD: School project? Just how far have these things evolved?
WESLEY: Well, this is a sample of linear memory crystal from our computer core.
RIKER: It's like candy to them.
CRUSHER: As you can see, they're able to mechanically replicate themselves.
DATA: It is conceivable that with each new generation they enhance their own design. The rate of evolution would be extraordinary.
PICARD: How many generations are we dealing with here?
DATA: Engineering, display computer core processor four five one, element zero two nine nine.
DATA: Increase magnification, factor one thousand.
PICARD: Can it be possible they know what they're doing?
RIKER: Why would they attack us?
STUBBS: Why does a mosquito bite your ear? and who cares? The answer is simple. Call an exterminator.
CRUSHER: Doctor Stubbs, these nanites are now working with a new collective intelligence. Operating together. Teaching each other skills.
STUBBS: Oh really. I'm sorry but this is nonsense. You can't have a civilization of computer chips. They're made in a plant in Dakar, Senegal. I've watched the construction.
CRUSHER: Then how do you explain what we've seen here?
STUBBS: It's no more mysterious than watching a strain of the Leutscher virus reproduce itself. And that at least is a bona fide lifeform. How many disease germs and viruses have you destroyed in your time, Doctor Crusher?
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, we cannot exterminate something that may or may not be intelligent.
STUBBS: My good Captain.
PICARD: There's still time. Ensign, will you work with mister Data to try to remove them safely. If things get worse, we'll use stronger measures.

[Computer core]
STUBBS: Gentlemen. I need a computer that is one hundred percent in less than eight hours, and we still have core reconstruction to consider.
WESLEY: We're trying low gamma bursts. We think it might slow down their productivity.
STUBBS: Have you considered a high level charge?
DATA: High level gamma radiation would kill them, Doctor.
STUBBS: I know.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I can't get the story of Gulliver out of my head. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait?
RIKER: We can continue to bypass the part of the computer that's affected, but if the nanites are spreading through the whole the ship.
PICARD: Do you smell a change? What?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard to La Forge. We have an environmental system malfunction on the Bridge. Acknowledge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Nitrogen oxide. Toxic levels.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Working on it, Captain.
RIKER: I've switched to manual control of the air handling system.
PICARD: Mister Worf, report.
WORF: He entered a computer access room and sterilized one of the processors with gamma radiation.
DATA: The nanites in the upper core are all dead, Captain.
STUBBS: You have no choice now. It is a matter of survival.
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, if you were a member of my crew, sir, I would
STUBBS: But I am not a member of your crew, sir. I am a representative of the highest command of the Federation, which has directed you to perform my experiment.
PICARD: If any man, woman or child on this ship is harmed as a result of your experiment, I will have your head before the highest command in the Federation.
STUBBS: Good Lord, you are talking about machines with a screw loose. Simply turn them off and be done with them.
DATA: Doctor Stubbs, your own actions have provided evidence to the contrary. When you destroyed the nanites in the core, they responded by interfering with our life support systems. It is difficult to accept these as random actions by machines with loose screws. In effect, you may have proven that the nanites do have a collective intelligence.
WORF: Captain, the ship is at risk. Extermination may be our only alternative.
STUBBS: A good point.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, I want Doctor Stubbs confined to his quarters until further notice.
PICARD: Mister Data, can you find me some way to communicate with these things?
DATA: With intelligence, there is the capability of language, but it will depend on how far their evolution has brought them. We could modify the circuitry in the universal translator to make it capable of communications with them.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Stubbs' quarters]
TROI: May I come in?
STUBBS: You just can't resist, can you, Counselor?
TROI: I only want to help.
STUBBS: Yes, yes. To break the shell. To get in touch with my true feelings.
TROI: I'm only worried about your state of mind, Doctor.
STUBBS: All right, Counselor, what is it that has you so worried?
TROI: Your single-mindedness, your need to have this experiment work.
STUBBS: But it will. Picard has no choice now. He must defend the Enterprise. Counselor, when this is all over, I will show you New Manhattan on Beth Delta One as you've never seen it, and we will laugh over glasses of champagne.
TROI: Your self portrait is so practiced, so polished.
STUBBS: Yes, isn't it, though?
TROI: It is stretched so tight the tension fills this room. And if you finally fail, I fear it will snap.
STUBBS: A good try, Counselor. But sometimes when you reach beneath a man's self portrait, as you so eloquently put it, deep down inside what you find is nothing at all. (Troi leaves and Stubbs returns to his mental reconstruction of a 1951 baseball game)
STUBBS: Lockman on first, Dark on second. Thompson at the plate Branca on the mound.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's coming around.
PICARD: I cannot believe this was not an arbitrary attack.
CRUSHER: Has Data made any progress in contacting them?
STUBBS: Picard. You must protect me. Kill them!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Riker. On my signal, we will gamma-irradiate all computer systems throughout the Enterprise. Let's put an end to this conflict.
RIKER: Worf, prepare to activate gamma pulse generators.
WORF: Electromagnetic scanners ready, Captain.
DATA: Captain. I have established contact.
DATA: As we continue, Captain, they are virtually learning the concept of communication. Each new generation is making modifications.
PICARD: Can we actually talk to them yet?
DATA: I believe it is worth an attempt. sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, bring Doctor Stubbs to the Bridge.

[Corridor]
STUBBS: I don't think this is a wise idea. They have already tried to kill me once.
RIKER: One sure way into the record books, Doctor.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am ready, sir.
PICARD: Tell them the human who destroyed their comrades is here and wishes to address them.
STUBBS: Captain, if I
PICARD: You, sir, you will explain your error and apologize, and pray that we can negotiate a peace we can all live with. Is that clear?
DATA: Captain, if a face to face negotiation would be helpful, I would like to volunteer myself as a conduit.
RIKER: Yourself, Data?
DATA: I can easily furnish the nanites with a schematic design of my neurological structure. Entering my neural network would require no more than their most basic skills.
CRUSHER: That's what they were designed for.
DATA: They could penetrate the molecular fabric of my hand-covering into my nerve circuitry, and interface with my verbal programs.
WORF: If they have control of a Starfleet Commander, they become an even greater threat.
PICARD: How can we be sure we can get them out of you?
DATA: It would be a considerable risk, sir, but it would also represent a gesture of trust on our part. It could be an important step toward peace, sir.
PICARD: All right, Data. Propose it to the nanites.
DATA: The answer is yes.

[Computer core]
DATA: They are ready, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: You are very strange looking creatures.
PICARD: In our travels, we have encountered many other creatures, perhaps even stranger-looking than ourselves. But we try to co-exist peacefully with them.
DATA: Why did you attack us?
PICARD: We misinterpreted your actions as an attack on us.
DATA: We were seeking raw materials for our replicating process.
PICARD: Yes, but you endangered this vessel in which we all travel. You nearly killed a crewmember.
DATA: We meant no harm. We were exploring.
PICARD: I understand. We are also explorers. We mean no harm to any other living creature.
STUBBS: I am the one responsible for the deaths in the computer core.
DATA: We know who you are.
STUBBS: I deeply regret the incident. I am a scientist on an important mission. Your colleagues' exploration of the core memory put our mission at risk. I was only trying to protect a lifetime of work from being destroyed. I am at your mercy.
DATA: What is at your mercy?
PICARD: He asks your forgiveness. This conflict was started by mistakes on both sides. Let's agree to end it here and now.
DATA: We agree.
PICARD: I pledge we will do everything possible to assist your continued survival.
DATA: Thank you, but we have evolved beyond any need for your assistance. This vessel has become too confining. We require relocation.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Stubbs has used his influence to have planet Kavis Alpha Four designated the new home of the nanite civilization. Commander Data's neural network has been vacated. He has been returned to us unharmed. And with the help of the nanites, our computer core has been reconstructed in time for the experiment

[Bridge]
DATA: Ten seconds to stellar blast, sir.
WESLEY: We're at forty million kilometers from the neutron star, sir.
RIKER: Hold your position.
PICARD: Doctor?

[Ten forward]
CRUSHER: Do you have any children, Guinan?
GUINAN: A lot.
CRUSHER: Ever have any trouble relating to them?
GUINAN: Just one.
CRUSHER: One?
GUINAN: Wouldn't listen to anybody.
CRUSHER: Well, they all go through that.
GUINAN: Not in a species of listeners.
CRUSHER: Did he grow out of it?
GUINAN: It took several hundred years but I managed to bring him around.
CRUSHER: How?
GUINAN: A mother shapes her child in ways she doesn't even realize. Sometimes just by listening.
GUINAN: Cute couple.
CRUSHER: See? Now that is healthy for a boy his age. I mean that as a doctor, not as just a mother. It is so good to see him having fun for a change, with an attractive young woman who obviously looks at him with extraordinary affection. What do you know about this girl?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 43152.4. We are cautiously entering the Delta Rana star system three days after receiving a distress call from the Federation colony on its fourth planet. The garbled transmission reported the colony under attack from an unidentified spacecraft. Our mission is one of rescue and, if necessary, confrontation with a hostile force.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up, maximum strength.
WORF: Shields up. Sensors do not indicate the presence of any armed space vehicles operating in the Rana system.
PICARD: They could be cloaked, or otherwise shielded. Mister Crusher, bring us in well clear of the planet's three moons.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are not receiving Rana Four's call sign.
RIKER: Open a frequency to Colony Operations.
DATA: No response. Rana Four is emissions quiet.
TROI: Captain, there are eleven thousand inhabitants in this colony. At this range, I should be sensing something. I'm not.
PICARD: Mister Data, put the planet on the main viewer. Magnify.
CRUSHER: My God!
RIKER: Helm, put us in high equatorial orbit. Scan for survivors.
CRUSHER: Survivors? Down there?
DATA: Sensors are scanning ninety degrees of longitude as we orbit. I am detecting no bodies of water, no vegetation, no artificial structures.
WORF: Life form readings are negative.
TROI: Could the colonists have escaped?
DATA: That is highly unlikely. Rana Four possessed no interstellar spacecraft.
RIKER: Who would cause devastation on that order?
WESLEY: Hold it. Captain, I've got something here. Thirty seven degrees north and sixty two degrees east. It's a structure.
PICARD: Life?
WORF: Two life forms, possibly human.
PICARD: Put that area on the main viewer. Magnify.
DATA: The structure is located at the center of the vegetation.
RIKER: An entire planet obliterated except for a few acres of trees and grass and one building?
CRUSHER: It must be some kind of illusion.
DATA: Negative. It is as you see it.
PICARD: Number One, I think you had better see who's at home.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: If they're the only survivors of a nuclear holocaust, they can't be in very good shape.
PICARD: I understand. Counselor?
TROI: What I sense of them is human.
PICARD: And something else?
TROI: It's difficult to explain. I feel there's something different about these two people. I'm sorry. I can't be clearer than that.
RIKER: We're ready.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Good luck, Number One.
RIKER: Energize.

[Lawn]
RIKER: Geordi, what can you tell me?
LAFORGE: The house is a typical settlement structure with adaptations. Its thermal properties all seem to conform to known materials.
DATA: If there are indicators as to why this particular area has remained intact, I cannot detect them.
RIKER: Worf, the interior of the house?
WORF: There is one individual is located at the south end of the house, the other toward the north. There is a weapon, a low-yield phaser, nonfunctional, in proximity to the front-room individual.
RIKER: I guess a frontal assault is unwarranted. Stay here. I think I'll try an old-fashioned knock on the door.
LAFORGE: Commander, wait. There's something concealed under the surface
KEVIN: What are you doing there? This is private property Who are you people?
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. Crewmembers. May I comet down and approach you?
KEVIN: You leave him right where he is.
WORF: Should I incapacitate him, Commander?
RIKER: No. We're a rescue party. We picked up your colony's distress call and we came as fast as we could.
RISHON: Kevin! Kevin, what are you doing? Can't you see they're here to help us? Can't you see they're human?
KEVIN: Go back in the house, Rishon. This could be some kind of a trick.
RISHON: We'd almost given up hope. We were afraid maybe the whole Federation had been attacked.
CRUSHER: What about the colony? Do you know of any other survivors?
RISHON: It's been days since we've seen or heard from anybody. No, don't. Don't tell me that we're the only ones.
KEVIN: They came in a spaceship so big you could see it in orbit. They took our world apart piece by piece.
RIKER: Who?
KEVIN: We don't know. We never saw their faces.
RIKER: You don't know where they came from? Where they are now?
KEVIN: I guess they've gone away.
CRUSHER: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm only performing a physical. Could I have your names, please, just for the record.
RISHON: I'm Rishon Uxbridge and this is my husband Kevin.
DATA: Botanists. Originally from the aquatic city New Martim Vaz in Earth's Atlantic Ocean. Residents of the Rana Four colony for five years. You, ma'am, are eighty two years of age and a composer of Tao classical music. You, sir, are eighty five years of age and a specialist in symbiotic plant life. You have been married for fifty three years. I memorized the colony register on the way to Rana Four, in the event that such information would be needed.
KEVIN: Is something wrong?
RIKER: With your permission, I'd like to look inside of the house.
KEVIN: Why? What could interest you in there?
RIKER: Mister Uxbridge, as far as we've been able to determine, you and your wife and this house are all that survived that attack. That's was either a bizarre coincidence or by design, and I don't favor the coincidence theory.
KEVIN: Are you saying that we were kept alive intentionally?
RIKER: Yes.
KEVIN: I don't understand. You don't think Rishon and I did something that merited survival, do you? I mean, betrayed the others?
RIKER: I'm not accusing you of anything, Mister Uxbridge. The attacking force spared you for some reason. We'd like to know why. Now, may I go inside?

[Living room]
RISHON: I'll make everyone a nice cup of tea. We have lovely tea here on Rana. It grows wild nearly every
WORF: Sir. May I say your attempt to hold the away team at bay with a nonfunctioning weapon was an act of unmitigated gall.
KEVIN: Didn't fool you, huh?
WORF: I admire gall.
RISHON: Go ahead, pick it up. It's a music box. It's been in my family for generations.
RIKER: There's nothing unusual about this house, except the fact that it's here. What about them?
CRUSHER: They're in reasonably good health. Both show signs of stress, which is understandable considering what they've been through.
RIKER: Somehow, they're different. Let's get back to the ship. We'll take them with us. Excuse, Mrs. Uxbridge. We'd better return to our ship now.
RISHON: But I haven't finished fixing your tea, Commander.
RIKER: I'm sorry, but we're finished here. Now, I can allow time for you and Kevin to pack.
RISHON: What do you mean, pack?
KEVIN: You're not thinking of taking us with you, are you?
RIKER: Surely you don't want to remain here? How can you take care of yourselves?
RISHON: Kevin, I can't leave my home. Don't let them do this to us.
KEVIN: No one's going to make us leave.
RIKER: You'll be protected on our ship. You could still be in danger here on Rana.
KEVIN: Commander, we appreciate your concern but we're not going anywhere. We'll manage. We always have.
RIKER: All right. I can't make you come with us. Are you familiar with one of these? We'll be in the system for the next several days at least. If you reconsider, please contact us.
RISHON: We'll be fine, Commander. We have each other.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Are they collaborators? Did they provide the colony's assailants with something that abetted the total destruction of Rana Four in order to protect their own lives?
CRUSHER: What could two botanists in their eighties possess that could possibly aid whoever attacked the planet?
PICARD: We don't know what the enemy needed, Doctor. Love? Fear? Hope?
LAFORGE: Maybe they're being held hostage in some fashion?
CRUSHER: Nothing in the tricorder readings indicated they were under that kind of stress.
PICARD: Counselor? Counselor Troi?
TROI: I'm sorry. I don't sense them well enough.
PICARD: Number One, you say the couple is incapable of sustaining themselves?
RIKER: There's a fusion reactor in the house, good for another five years of power. But their water table is tainted. They have nothing to feed themselves except for a small garden.
PICARD: They won't come to the ship?
RIKER: They were adamant.
PICARD: We'll do all that we can to help them but in the meantime I want them kept under surveillance.
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not feeling very well. I'd like to go to my quarters.
PICARD: By all means.
CRUSHER: Is there anything I can do?

[Corridor]
WORF: Captain, a search of the Ranian system has determined that the hostile force that attacked this planet is no longer present.
PICARD: I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing about some renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out that they had dismantled their ship and hidden it.
WORF: Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my thoroughness. I will stake my reputation.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Don't listen. Think of something else. Stop! Please, stop!
TROI: Yes?
PICARD: I was concerned. I came to see if I could be of any help.
TROI: I'm fine. There's nothing wrong. I'm just tired, that's all.
PICARD: Now, I may not have your gifts at reading emotions, Counselor, but I can tell when someone is in pain and hiding it.
TROI: It's so silly. I hear music. In my mind. Music that won't stop.
PICARD: Perhaps it's a symptom of fatigue. We've all been inflicted one time or another with that melody that won't go away.
TROI: No, it's deeper than that. The song doesn't stops for an instant. It plays in perfect clarity from beginning to end over and over again. I don't even know what song it is. I never heard it before.
PICARD: When did this start?
TROI: A few hours ago, while the away team was on the surface. I was trying to, I was thinking of Rishon and Kevin.
PICARD: Rishon and Kevin? And?
TROI: I can't explain it, Captain. They're elusive. They're, I'm sorry
PICARD: Well, try and rest. Take the necessary sleep inducements if you have to.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, give us a visual. Magnification factor fifty.
WESLEY: Look at the size of that!
PICARD: Now where did that come from?
RIKER: Apparently it was riding a Lagrange point, hiding behind Rana Four's furthest moon.
DATA: Our vehicle classification index can put no identity to it. Its design is completely foreign.
RIKER: But that's our boy. Approximately five times our mass and carrying enough armament to pulverize a planet.
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: I, er, cannot explain this, Captain.
RIKER: It's heading for the planet.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Mister Data, ask them to identify themselves and match our orbit.
DATA: They have received the message, Captain, but are ignoring it.
PICARD: Maximum shields, ready all weapon systems.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's assuming an attack posture. Don't be surprised if
WORF: The vessel is firing jacketed streams of positrons and antiprotons. Equivalent firepower, forty megawatts. Shields are holding. Again, forty megawatts. No damage.
RIKER: If that's the best they can do, this should last about five minutes.
PICARD: Mister Worf, let's raise our voice a little. Fire phasers. Just a warning shot. Mister Data, invite them to stand to.
DATA: The vessel has assumed a position outside of the Rana system, and it is rapidly increasing velocity.
PICARD: Helm, initiate pursuit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. The vessel has reached warp two and continues on a steady acceleration curve. We're not getting any closer, Commander.
RIKER: Give us a superior curve, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Warp three. Warp four. The warship continues to match our curve simultaneously point for point. Warp four point five. Warp five. Warp five point five.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Give us everything you can to close the gap, Geordi.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'll get you to nine point three seven in fifteen seconds.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Warp eight point five. Warp nine. The warship continues to match our acceleration curve perfectly.
PICARD: Number One, I have the distinct impression that we're being toyed with. Take us back to Rana Four.
RIKER: Back?
PICARD: We have unfinished business there. I need to have a talk with those two people. You have the Bridge.
RIKER: Reduce speed. Bring us around on a return course. This one's getting away.

[Garden]
PICARD: Good afternoon. I'm sorry if I startled you. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. I have brought you something you will need if you're going to stay on Rana Four. It's a matter replicator. It has limited capabilities, but
KEVIN: Thank you, but we have no use for such a thing.
PICARD: It will provide you with clothing, food and clean water. Lieutenant Worf demonstrate its operation.
KEVIN: We don't need it.
RISHON: Kevin, you know we do. Thank you, Captain. Kevin and I were about to have afternoon tea. You and Mister Worf must join us.
PICARD: I'd like that very much.
KEVIN: Rishon, they only want to spy on us like this morning.
RISHON: Kevin Uxbridge, I have never turned anyone away from this house, and I'm not going to start now. Captain.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Stop! Stop! Please, I'll do anything! Make it stop!
CRUSHER: Please. I'm here to help.
TROI: It's so loud! It's getting louder! Please, I can't stand it. Make it stop!
CRUSHER: Move her to the bed.
CRUSHER: This will help you relax.
TROI: I hear it. It's still there! It's so loud!
CRUSHER: Take her to Sickbay.
TROI: No, I want to stay in my quarters.
CRUSHER: I can get you to sleep.
TROI: I don't want to sleep. The music will only follow me.
CRUSHER: I can induce delta sleep. Lock out even your deepest dreams.
TROI: It's not a dream. It's real.

[Living room]
RISHON: Kevin and I first saw each other on a ship at sea. He was a starving student with this threadbare suit and mismatched shoes. I was traveling with my parents who did not like the way that he kept hanging around. Two hours after I met him, I asked him to marry me. And he knew I was serious. I don't think that he has ever recovered from that day.
RISHON: Well, what do you think, Mister Worf?
WORF: Good tea. Nice house.
PICARD: Why did you leave the Earth and come to a brand new planet when you did?
RISHON: You mean at our age. Well, we thought it might make us fall in love all over again. It worked.
PICARD: Must have been terrible when the colony was fighting for its life.
RISHON: Yes, it was. Fires lit the sky. There was thunder, this unbelievable thunder. The ground never stopped shaking.
PICARD: And yet you survived.
RISHON: We don't know why we survived and the others didn't. I've tried to put some purpose to it, but I can't.
KEVIN: I was wondering, Captain, when you and your ship would be leaving.
PICARD: I don't have an answer for that. A few hours ago, we encountered a warship. Possibly the one which attacked you. We forced it to leave the system but we were unable to affect it otherwise. It could return.
RISHON: Kevin, you said it had gone away.
KEVIN: I guess I was wrong. Don't worry. It didn't hurt us before, it won't hurt us now.
PICARD: Do you know that for a fact, Kevin?
KEVIN: No, but I don't enjoy seeing my wife frightened. We've told you time and time again, we don't know why we were spared.
PICARD: But there had to be some reason. In some way, you were different from the other colonists. Your geographical location, your philosophical beliefs, the color of your eyes. In some way you were set apart from them.
KEVIN: There was a difference. I'm a man of special conscience. While the others were doing what they could, I chose not to fight.
PICARD: Well that is your protected right.
KEVIN: But I can assure you the attacking ship had no way of realizing this. I expected to die like all the others. There's no reason for you and your ship to remain, Captain. We can manage without you.
RISHON: Kevin grieved for the others, Captain, but he did nothing. He is a very gentle man. You must understand that.
PICARD: What about you, Rishon? Is that how you feel?
RISHON: I wanted to fight but I stayed with my husband. Well, Captain, thank you again for the replicator. I'd better clean up now.
PICARD: Before we leave, I ask you one more time to come to the ship. For your own safety.
RISHON: Captain, I am frightened but I can't leave Rana, even if it means my life.

[Troi's quarters]
CRUSHER: I don't understand it. I've inhibited almost all the activity of the neocortex and she continues to behave as if she's hearing the music. We're going to have to shield her from all outside stimuli by inducing coma.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have a positive identification, Commander. It is the vessel that attacked us earlier. It is re-entering the system at high velocity and is approaching Rana Four.
RIKER: Give us a tight visual, Data. Is it my imagination or does it look a lot meaner this time? Shields up. Weapons ready.
RIKER: Our friend is back.
PICARD: I'm not surprised. Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Warn the vessel to stay clear of the planet.
WORF: Aye, sir, but they are already within firing range.
WORF: Shields are down. Captain, they hit us with four hundred gigawatts of particle energy.
PICARD: Damage?
WORF: Superficial, but I'm having trouble reassembling the shields. Shields down. There is thermal damage to the hull.
DATA: The warship is capable of striking us with far more powerful bursts.
WESLEY: They're maneuvering to come between the Enterprise and Rana Four.
PICARD: Number One, we have been exemplary in our patience.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, fire phasers on full with a simultaneous spread of torpedoes.
DATA: The vessel appears undamaged, sir. Its defenses are apparently able to absorb incoming matter and energy.
RIKER: Commence rapid fire with all weapons on full.
WORF: Shields down. Internal damage. Weapon systems control has been lost.
RIKER: Riker to Sickbay. Medical assistance to the Bridge!
MEDIC (voiceover): On our way, Commander.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, move the Enterprise out of range of the attacking vessel.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: The vessel has terminated its pursuit. It is assuming an orbit around Rana Four.
RIKER: Kevin and Rishon?
PICARD: We can't help them. But it's my guess they're in no danger.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Number of casualties?
CRUSHER: Sixty-six.
PICARD: Fatalities?
CRUSHER: None. We've been able to treat everyone.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: Can you help her?
CRUSHER: I've done everything I can. I don't understand the nature of this music she says she's hearing, or where it's coming from.
PICARD: Could it be telepathic?
CRUSHER: Yes. But I'm not the expert at determining that.
PICARD: They're blocking her sensitivity. They're stopping her from seeing the truth.
CRUSHER: Who's stopping her?
PICARD: Kevin and Rishon.
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: They wanted us to leave Rana and that's exactly what we're doing. Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Number One, I want you to maintain this course for another hour

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): And then turn the Enterprise around and take it back to Rana Four.
RIKER: We still won't have our shields restored by then.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: Take it back, Number One, and this time nothing is going to lure us away.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, sensors indicate no spacecraft in the vicinity of Rana Four. But, Captain
PICARD: Forget your previous error, Mister Worf. There is no way you could have prevented it.
DATA: Captain, the Uxbridge house is coming into transporter range.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you accompany me to the Transporter Room? You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Captain, I think you should reconsider. The warship has come after us twice. It could come back.
PICARD: I disagree, Number One. I don't think it knows we're here. I think it believes that it has run us off for good. However, that will all change once I'm back on board.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: It's protecting Kevin and Rishon. It responds to their wishes. Indirectly or directly, I'm not sure, but that's what I'm going to put to the test.

[Living room]
PICARD: Celebrating?
KEVIN: What are you doing here? What do you want?
PICARD: This is the second time that you have shown surprise at my appearance, Kevin. The first time was understandable, but now? Unless it is because you never expected to see me again.
KEVIN: Why do you keep interfering with our lives, Captain?
PICARD: It is not my intention to interfere. Only to help you and Rishon.
KEVIN: Then please, leave us alone.
PICARD: I promise you that when I leave this house I will never set foot in it again. But the Enterprise will remain in orbit over the planet.
RISHON: Why?
PICARD: To protect you.
KEVIN: That's not necessary. I thought you understood.
PICARD: It is necessary. You're in great danger. A warship has returned.
RISHON: Kevin!
KEVIN: He's lying, Rishon.
PICARD: We have fought a pitched battle with it, and lost. Many of my crew have been injured including a woman who's mind is slowly being destroyed by telepathic manipulation.
RISHON: No. Please no.
KEVIN: This is a form of intimidation. I have my rights.
PICARD: Your rights? What about Rishon? Is she in favor of being here left here? Come to the Enterprise. Let me take you where you'll be safe.
RISHON: No. I can't leave Kevin.
KEVIN: I'm staying. She's safe here with me. in this house.
PICARD: Why are you safe?. Why is this house a sanctuary? Does it have to do with you? With your refusal to fight? Tell me this. If Rishon were in danger, would you kill to save her life?
KEVIN: No, not for her. Not for anyone. I will not kill.
RISHON: Please stop hurting him. Captain, leave our house.
PICARD: It is my sworn duty to protect you. The Enterprise will remain in orbit around Rana Four as long as the two of you are alive.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, an update, please.
RIKER: Little change, Captain. Our shields are still inoperable. We have partial control of our weapons, and I've doubled the repair crews.
DATA: The warship is approaching from high orbit. It is very close three hundred thousand kilometers distant.
RIKER: How is that possible? Is something wrong with the sensors?
PICARD: That's no concern, Number One. It's here and it's precisely on schedule.
DATA: The vessel has altered its course to a direct intercept with the Enterprise.
RIKER: Worf, arm phasers and photon torpedoes. Prepare to fire.
PICARD: Belay those orders, Mister Worf.
DATA: The vessel is now within twenty thousand kilometers of the Enterprise and closing.
PICARD: Let it come, let it come. Activate the main viewer.
WORF: Evasive action, sir?
PICARD: The Enterprise will hold its position, Mister Worf.
WORF: Weapons, sir?
PICARD: On my orders, not before.
DATA: The vessel is entering a low orbit around Rana Four. It appears it is preparing to fire at the planet, Captain.
PICARD: Understood.
DATA: My calculations indicate that its target is the house of Kevin and Rishon Uxbridge.
PICARD: There will be no interference from us, Mister Data.
WORF: The house has been obliterated.
PICARD: Scan for survivors.
WORF: There are no survivors.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a photon torpedo. Fire at the enemy vessel when ready.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, what reason does the Enterprise have for remaining at Rana?
RIKER: The unknown vessel has been destroyed. The Uxbridges have been destroyed. There's no reason for the Enterprise to remain.
PICARD: Good. Helm, move us into a higher orbit so that we may keep the surface of the planet under surveillance.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. But, Captain, what are we watching for?
PICARD: Anything. Everything. I'll be in my Ready room if I'm needed. That will be all for now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you?
PICARD: It's my pleasure, Number One.
RIKER: We've been observing the planet very carefully for three hours. We've seen nothing. I have the feeling you're waiting for something to happen.
PICARD: Your Captain is acting on an assumption, Will, and I'm not sure what the result will be, or even that my assumption is correct. We found two people alive in a house on a devastated planet. But there was only one survivor of the war on Rana Four.

[Bridge]
WORF: Why is it we maintain watch on a planet that is now totally dead?
LAFORGE: Bridge to Captain Picard. You had better come see this.
LAFORGE: Captain. Commander. The house is back. Trees, grass, everything. Happened right in front of us.
PICARD: Mister Worf, do you see any survivors?
WORF: I detect two life forms inside the house. It appears Kevin and Rishon were not destroyed.
PICARD: Helm, take us within transporter range. We're going to beam them aboard directly onto the Bridge.
DATA: But, Captain, will they not protest?
PICARD: Let them.
PICARD: My apologies if I interrupted a waltz.
RISHON: Why have you brought us here against our will?
PICARD: I want to end the suffering of one of my crewmembers.
RISHON: I don't understand.
PICARD: Kevin does. He's the cause. At first I couldn't understand why your house survived the holocaust when the others hadn't. Then it occurred to me. It had been destroyed. That dwelling, where you served me tea, where you danced your waltzes, is a reproduction. Real to the touch but capable of being created, destroyed, and created. All on a whim.
RISHON: You're joking with us, Captain. Can't you see this is hurting my husband?
KEVIN: Rishon. Hear what he has to say.
PICARD: More than anything else, you wanted the Enterprise away from Rana, because the house, the plot of land, your very existence, were incongruities that you were not prepared to explain. The warship, another recreation, tried to chase us away twice, and failed. But when I came to your house the second time, I provided you with the only condition that would make the Enterprise leave. Your deaths. You did your best to satisfy that condition.
KEVIN: I'm deeply sorry about the woman. I will help her. But I must know what you intend to do with me afterwards.
PICARD: You'll be taken to the nearest starbase and held responsible for the attack on the Enterprise, and possibly the deaths of eleven thousand people.
RISHON: No. He never killed anyone.
KEVIN: The destruction of the planet happened just as I told you.
PICARD: But you haven't told us the whole story. How it ended. The part about Rishon.
RISHON: What is he saying?
PICARD: Rishon, I can touch you. I can hear your voice, I can smell your perfume. In every respect you are a real person with your own mind and beliefs, but you do not exist. You died along with the others, defending the colony. He recreated you, just as he recreated the house.
PICARD: You are the only living thing that really exists on Rana. And though you look human, you're not.
LAFORGE: He's in the turbolift.
PICARD: Let him go.
WORF: Captain, he is dangerous!
PICARD: So dangerous, Mister Worf, that he could have destroyed us in an instant had he wished. Track him. Alert the crew to keep clear of hm. I want him to understand we mean him no harm
RIKER: Will he return to the planet?
PICARD: If he is the creature of conscience I believe him to be, he has someone to help first.

[Troi's quarters]
KEVIN: I've taken the music from her mind. She's alright now. She's sleeping. She was beginning to sense who I really was. I've been living as a human for over fifty years but I couldn't hide from her. She has suffered because of my pride and selfishness. It will not happen again.
PICARD: What happened on Rana Four? The truth this time. All of it.
KEVIN: Very well. For what it's worth. I am a Douwd. An immortal being of disguises and false surroundings. I have lived in this galaxy for many thousands of years although until today, no one has known my true identity. Once, while traveling in human form, I chanced to fall in love with an Earth woman. I put aside my powers and became her husband. Our life was happy and rich. Eventually we came to this planet to live our final years. Now she is dead. She never knew what I really was.
PICARD: Your colony was attacked by a warship.
KEVIN: Belonging to the Husnock, a species of hideous intelligence who knew only aggression and destruction. I could have destroyed them with a mere thought, but I did not do so.
CRUSHER: You had the power to stop them but you didn't?
KEVIN: I refused to for the same reason I refused to stop the Enterprise. I will not kill.
PICARD: So you let the colonists fight a hopeless battle.
KEVIN: I tried to fool the Husnock as I tried to fool you. It only made them angrier. More cruel.
PICARD: And then what you most feared, happened. Rishon went to fight with the colonists, and died with them.
KEVIN: How I wish I could have died with her.
PICARD: But you couldn't. You were left alone.
KEVIN: Yes. I saw her broken body. I went insane. My hatred exploded, and in an instant of grief I destroyed the Husnock.
CRUSHER: Why did you try to hide this from all of us? Was it out of guilt for not helping Rishon and the others when they were alive?
KEVIN: No, no, no, no. You don't understand the scope of my crime. I didn't kill just one Husnock, or a hundred, or a thousand. I killed them all. All Husnock everywhere. Are eleven thousand people worth fifty billion? Is the love of a woman worth the destruction of an entire species? This is the sin I tried so hard to keep you from learning now. Why I wanted to chase you from Rana.
PICARD: We're not qualified to be your judges. We have no law to fit your crime. You're free to return to the planet and to make Rishon live again.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Helm, break orbit. Full impulse.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43153.7. We are departing the Rana system for Starbase One Three Three. We leave behind a being of extraordinary power and conscience. I am not certain if he should be praised or condemned. Only that he should be left alone.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43173.5. We are en route to Mintaka Three, where a three man Federation anthropological field team has been studying the inhabitants. Our mission is to resupply the outpost and repair their malfunctioning reactor.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, report.
LAFORGE: We've finished replicating the parts they'll need, but what I don't understand is why a three man station would need a reactor capable of producing four point two gigawatts.
RIKER: Enough to power a small phaser bank, a subspace relay station, or
LAFORGE: A hologram generator. Oh, a duck blind. Right. They're anthropologists.
PICARD: Who are studying an extended family of Mintakans at close range from a camouflaged observation post.
TROI: According to Doctor Barron's preliminary reports, the Mintakans are proto-Vulcan humanoids at the Bronze Age level. Quite peaceful and highly rational.
PICARD: Which is not surprising, considering how closely their evolution parallels Vulcan.
WORF: Captain, incoming transmission from Mintaka Three.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. On screen.
BARRON (screen): Barron to Enterprise. Our temporary repairs have failed. The reactor is now inoperative.
PICARD: Do you have battery backup?
BARRON (screen): Three hours at best.
DATA: Captain, if we increase to warp seven we can be there in twenty three minutes.
PICARD: Make it so. We're on our way.
WORF: We've lost contact, sir.
PICARD: Increase to warp nine.

[Duck blind]
LAFORGE: The framework's still charged, so watch it.

[Path]
LIKO: Why did we have to come so early?
OJI: When the sun reaches its zenith, I have to be ready to take the measurements.
LIKO: You'll be ready. You've read the sundial hundreds of times.
OJI: Yes, father, but never as the appointed record keeper.
LIKO: You're taking your duties quite seriously. Your mother would have been proud of you.
OJI: What is that? Up there, father. What is it?
LIKO: I don't know.

[Duck blind]
BARRON: Keep work. Palmer.
CRUSHER: It's all right. It's all right.
DATA: The hologram generator is now functioning, sir.
RIKER: All we need now is power.
LAFORGE: Almost there.

[Hillside]
LIKO: You wait here, Oji.

[Duck blind]
CRUSHER: Enterprise, beam Martinez and his patient directly to Sickbay.
DATA: Commander.

[Hillside]
RIKER: Doctor, be careful.
CRUSHER: I've got to get down there.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. Medical emergency. Two to beam directly to Sickbay.
OGAWA (voiceover): Aye, Doctor.

[Duck blind]
LAFORGE: That should do it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You increased the levels of tricordrazine? Let me see his chart, please.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Before you start quoting me the Prime Directive, he'd already seen us. The damage was done. It was either bring him aboard or let him die.
PICARD: Then why didn't you let him die?
CRUSHER: Because we were responsible for his injuries.
PICARD: I'm not sure that I concur with that reasoning, Doctor. But now that he's here, you must remove all memory of his encounter with the away team.
CRUSHER: By erasing short term recall?
PICARD: It has been accomplished before.
CRUSHER: I am familiar with Doctor Pulaski's technique. I can't guarantee it will be effective on Mintakan brain chemistry. Their lie-zone levels are much lower.
BARRON: Wait. No! No! We must evacuate.
CRUSHER: Doctor Barron, you're on the Enterprise. You're safe.
BARRON: The others?
PICARD: Doctor Warren is here. We're doing all we can.
BARRON: And Palmer? Where is Palmer?
PICARD: Still on Mintaka Three.
BARRON: Picard, you have to find him.
PICARD: We will.
BARRON: He may be hurt.
PICARD: Rest assured we shall not leave until he is located.
BARRON: Thank you, Picard.
PICARD: Picard to bridge. Report.
WORF (voiceover): Scans of the planet detect no humans, Captain.
PICARD: Very well. Put us into a close orbit.
WORF (voiceover): Sir, a close orbit will increase sensor efficiency by only four percent.
PICARD: I want that four percent, Lieutenant.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Picard out.
LIKO: Picard?
CRUSHER: Damn.
PICARD: Well, Doctor. Your next task is clear.

[Hillside]
LIKO: Oji? Oji?
OJI: Father?
LIKO: Here. Oji.
OJI: Father! I thought I'd never see you again. When you and the woman vanished, I was sure you were dead.
LIKO: I think I was, but I was brought back to life. Oji, I awoke in an incredible place and my wounds were gone. I had been healed.
OJI: How is that possible?
LIKO: Long ago, our people believed in beings with great powers. These beings made the rains come, told the sun when to rise, they caused all life to be born, to grow, to die.
OJI: But those are just tales, father. Old superstitions.
LIKO: But perhaps the beliefs of our ancestors are true. Nothing else can explain what's happened. Everything is changed now, Oji. We must tell the others.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Barron is stable, but Warren is still critical.
RIKER: Palmer is missing. A scan of the planet shows Mintakan life forms only, no humans. However
DATA: The area around the duck blind exhibits Karst topography. Sinkholes, underground rivers, and caverns. And the rock strata contain a high concentration of thallium compounds which may be obstructing our sensor beams.
PICARD: So if Palmer, in his delirium, fled into a cave, we may be unable to detect his life signs?
DATA: Correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Captain, if he is still alive, he needs medical attention. We must send an away team to locate him.
TROI: But our presence must not interfere with the cultural development of the Mintakans.
PICARD: Agreed. Further contamination must be prevented.
RIKER: I have a suggestion. First officer's log, Stardate 43174.2. Counselor Troi and I are beaming down to Mintaka Three to locate Doctor Palmer and to determine the extent of the cultural contamination. Doctor Crusher has temporarily altered our features and skin color. She's also implanted subcutaneous communicators so that any transmissions we receive will be inaudible to the Mintakans.

[Plain]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Do you hear me?
DATA (voiceover): Perfectly, Commander. I will be monitoring you continuously.
TROI: Mintakan emotions are quite interesting. Like the Vulcans, they have highly ordered minds. A very sensible people. For example, Mintakan women precede their mates. It's a signal to other women.
RIKER: This man's taken, get your own?
TROI: Not precisely. More like, if you want his services, I'm the one you have to negotiate with.
RIKER: What kind of services?
TROI: All kinds.
RIKER: They are a sensible race.

[Assembly hall]
LIKO: I understand your skepticism. Had it not happened to me, I would find it difficult to accept as well.
OJI: But it did happen, just as we've said.
LIKO: Fento, you know the legends better than anyone. Do they not speak of beings like the kind I've seen?
OJI: Who could vanish like smoke?
FENTO: There are the stories of the Overseer who could appear and disappear at will.
LIKO: And couldn't this Overseer heal the dead?
FENTO: He had supreme power, or so our ancestors believed.
LIKO: I believe I have seen the Overseer. He is called the Picard.
RIKER: Uh oh.
TROI: His memory's intact.
RIKER: The procedure didn't work.
NURIA: Liko, all this talk of supernatural beings. No one has believed that for countless generations. Just as we no longer believe the stars control our fates, or the spirits of the dead haunt the living.
LIKO: Nuria, I'm not saying all the old beliefs are true. But I did see the Picard, and I was restored back to life.
TROI: We are visitors. We've come to trade our cloth. May we speak?
NURIA: Please do. We welcome outsiders. I am Nuria.
TROI: I am Troi and this is Riker. You've had a very interesting dream.
LIKO: Dream? It was real!
OJI: My father and I both witnessed these beings.
TROI: If you are father and daughter, you may well have shared the same dream.
LIKO: That is not reasonable.
RIKER: Is that any less reasonable than being magically transformed to another place by the Picard?
HALI: Nuria!
LIKO: It has to be Palmer! The one the Picard wished to find.
NURIA: Remarkable. You were speaking the truth.
LIKO: The Picard will be pleased.
RIKER: Riker to Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: We have a problem.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: With the contamination?
RIKER (voiceover): It's worse than we suspected.

[Assembly hall]
RIKER: The Mintakans are beginning to believe in a god

[Sickbay]
RIKER (voiceover): And the one they've chosen is you.
BARRON: Picard, you must beam Palmer aboard immediately. Without medical attention
PICARD: It's not as simple as that. He is surrounded by Mintakans. If he dematerializes before their eyes, the impact
BARRON: It will slightly increase the cultural contamination which already exists. A small price for saving Palmer's life.
PICARD: Number One?

[Assembly hall]
PICARD (voiceover): Is there any chance of your freeing Palmer and transporting up unseen?
RIKER: We can try.
PICARD (voiceover): Try hard.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Picard out.
BARRON: Picard, I must protest. You're endangering Palmer with this delay.
PICARD: I am aware of that. But each of us, including Doctor Palmer took an oath that we would uphold the Prime Directive, if necessary, with our lives.

[Assembly hall]
HALI: Riga and I were hunting on the third ridge. We followed a hornbuck into a cave. The stranger was there, asleep.
NURIA: This Palmer is one of the Overseer's servants?
LIKO: Yes. The Picard has many servants. Isn't that true, Fento?
FENTO: According to legend. But if this Palmer is a servant of the Overseer, what was he doing in the cave?
OJI: Perhaps he ran away.
HALI: Or he failed the Picard somehow and was hiding from him.
LIKO: We should bind him in case he wakes and tries to escape.
RIKER: It's senseless for this stranger to be held captive. All this talk of the Overseer, it's old superstitions.
NURIA: I disagree. All the evidence indicates that the Overseer exists.
LIKO: And I heard the Picard say he wanted to find Palmer.
OJI: Then by keeping Palmer safe, we will please the Picard.
LIKO: And he'll grant us favors in return.
NURIA: Favors?
FENTO: It is said that the Overseer is all powerful. He can provide gentle winters, plentiful hunting, fertile crops, anything.
LIKO: He could even bring back those who have died.
NURIA: It's agreed. We will save Palmer for the Picard.
TROI: I've seen another one, like Palmer.
LIKO: Another servant of the Picard?
TROI: He's headed toward the caves.
NURIA: Fento, stay and bind Palmer.

[Outside the hall]
MAN: Where?
TROI: Over there.

[Assembly hall]
RIKER: That knot won't hold. If I may?
FENTO: Please do.
RIKER: You need a knot that'll tighten under pressure. Let me show you.

[Path]
OJI: Father, the sun's reaching its zenith. If I don't go to measure
LIKO: Go.

[Assembly hall]
RIKER: Forgive me, friend, but the stranger must be set free.

[Outside the hall]
OJI: Riker?
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Lock on and prepare to beam us directly to Sickbay, but hang on for my signal.
DATA (voiceover): Acknowledged, Commander.
OJI: Riker, stop!

[Path]
NURIA: Oji?
OJI (voiceover): It's Riker, he's taking Palmer!
NURIA: Hali. Yuri, don't let her escape.
RIKER: I'm clear. Energize!

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Data, has Counselor Troi beamed up?
DATA (voiceover): Negative, Commander. Sensors show she's in the midst of a group of Mintakans.
RIKER: Damn.

[Assembly hall]
NURIA: He is all right. Hali, find Riker and Palmer.
LIKO: Why did you and Riker take Palmer from us?
TROI: We did not take Palmer.

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): We set him free. Riker and I do not believe in these fables about an Overseer.
LIKO (voiceover): Don't you realize what you've done? You've angered the Picard and we may all suffer for it. I know. I've seen him. He is all-powerful.

[Assembly hall]
LIKO: Fanto, weren't there stories about the Overseer destroying those who offended him?
FENTO: Stories, nothing more.
NURIA: Liko, we'll get Palmer back. Riker was carrying him. They can't have gone far.
LIKO: Still, the Picard may blame us for letting Palmer escape. Perhaps we should punish her. Let the Overseer know

[Bridge]
LIKO (voiceover): That she and Riker acted alone.

[Assembly hall]
NURIA: We will keep Troi captive.
LIKO: That's not enough.
NURIA: You would have us harm her?
LIKO: If it will hold off the Picard's anger, yes. I've seen how powerful he is.
NURIA: I am unwilling to hurt her needlessly. We will wait for Hali to return.
OJI: And if they don't find Palmer?
NURIA: Then we may have to do as Liko suggests.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Doctor, you believe the Mintakans are capable of harming Counselor Troi?
BARRON: They are not normally a violent people but these are extraordinary circumstances. They're trying to comprehend what they believe to be a god.
PICARD: Recommendations?
BARRON: The Mintakans wish to please the Overseer, but they can only guess what he wants. They need a sign.
PICARD: Are you suggesting?
BARRON: You must go down to Mintaka Three.
RIKER: Masquerading as a god?
PICARD: Absolutely out of the question. The Prime Directive
BARRON: Has already been violated. The damage is done. All we can do now is minimize it.
PICARD: By sanctioning their false beliefs?
BARRON: By giving them guidelines. Letting them know what the Overseer expects of them.
PICARD: Doctor Barron, I cannot, I will not, impose a set of commandments on these people. To do so violates the very essence of the Prime Directive.
BARRON: Like it or not, we have rekindled the Mintakans' belief in the Overseer.
RIKER: And are you saying that this belief will eventually become a religion?
BARRON: It's inevitable. And without guidance, that religion could degenerate into inquisitions, holy wars, chaos.
PICARD: Horrifying. Doctor Barron, your report describes how rational these people are. Millennia ago, they abandoned their belief in the supernatural. Now you are asking me to sabotage that achievement, to send them back into the Dark Ages of superstition and ignorance and fear? No! We will find some way to undo the damage we've caused. Number One, tell me about this group's leader.
RIKER: Nuria. Exceptionally clear-minded, sensible. The Mintakans trust her judgment. If we can convince her that you are not a god
PICARD: She might be able to persuade the others.
BARRON: And how do you propose to convince her?
PICARD: She believes the Picard is a magical figure. I'm going to show her how the magic works. I'm going to bring her aboard.

[Assembly hall]
DATA (voiceover): Counselor, sensors indicate five Mintakans in your immediate vicinity. Four are motionless. The fifth is eight meters away, proceeding south. Is Nuria one of these five?
TROI: Mmm hmm.

[Bridge]
DATA: Was that intended to be an affirmative?
RIKER: Yes, Data, it was.
DATA: Is Nuria the closest of the five?
TROI (voiceover): Uh un.
RIKER: Negative.

[Assembly hall]
DATA (voiceover): Is Nuria the one in motion?
TROI: Mmm hmm.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Lock sensors on Nuria.
DATA: Locked on. We can beam Nuria aboard at will.
PICARD: Data, when sensors indicate she's alone, beam her directly to transporter room one.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Ensign Hoy?
DATA (voiceover): Captain, Nuria is alone.
PICARD: I'll handle this.
PICARD: Nuria, don't be afraid. No one is going to harm you.
NURIA: Who?
PICARD: I am Jean Luc Picard.
PICARD: Please, get up. Get up. You must not kneel to me.
NURIA: You do not wish it?
PICARD: I do not deserve it. Look at me. Look at me. Feel the warmth of my hand, the rhythm of my pulse. I'm not a supreme being. I'm flesh and blood, like you.
NURIA: Not like me.
PICARD: Like you. Different in appearance, yes. But we are both living beings. We are born, we grow, we live and we die. In all the ways that matter, we are alike.
NURIA: But you are the Picard!
PICARD: There is something I want you to see.
NURIA: What a wondrous place. Even the walls obey your command.
PICARD: Wondrous, yes, but not miraculous. The doors merely work differently from the ones you know.

[Observation lounge]
NURIA: That is my home?
PICARD: Seen from far, far above.
NURIA: Yet we do not fall. I never imagined I would see the clouds from the other side. Your powers are truly boundless.
PICARD: Nuria, your people live in huts. Was it always so?
NURIA: No. We have found remnants of tools in caves. Our ancestors must have lived there.
PICARD: So why do you now live in huts?
NURIA: Huts are better. Caves are dark and wet.
PICARD: If huts are better, why did you once live in caves?
NURIA: The most reasonable explanation would be that at one time we didn't know how to make huts.
PICARD: Just as at one time you did not know how to weave cloth, how to make a bow.
NURIA: That would be reasonable.
PICARD: Someone invented a hut. Someone invented a bow, who taught others, who taught their children, who built a stronger hut, built a better bow, who taught their children. Now, Nuria, suppose one of your cave dwelling ancestors could see you as you are today. What would she think?
NURIA: I don't know.
PICARD: Put yourself in her place. You see, she cannot kill a hornbuck at a great distance. You can. You have a power she lacks.
NURIA: Only because I have a bow.
PICARD: She's never seen a bow. It doesn't exist in her world. To you, it's a simple tool. To her, it's magic.
NURIA: I suppose she might think so.
PICARD: Now, how would she react to you?
NURIA: I think she would fear me.
PICARD: Just as you fear me.
NURIA: I do not fear you any longer.
PICARD: Good. That's good. You see, my people once lived in caves. And then we learned to build huts and, in time, to build ships like this one.
NURIA: Perhaps one day, my people will travel above the skies.
PICARD: Of that, I have absolutely no doubt.

[Assembly hall]
LIKO: It's not the season for lightning. It must be a warning.
FENTO: We've had storms like this before.
OJI: Not like this one.
LIKO: It must mean something. The Picard is angry with us. He blames us for letting Palmer escape.
FENTO: Liko, we don't know that the Overseer is responsible for this storm.
LIKO: Will he also send floods? My wife died in last year's floods. Will we all die now? We must find Nuria.

[Ready room]
NURIA: Picard, you have shown me wonders I could never have imagined, and I am grateful beyond words. Might I request something for my people?
PICARD: You are indeed a leader.
NURIA: You have shown me such generosity. I wish my people could share in it. Six Mintakans died in a flood last winter. Four of them children. Would you bring them back to life?
PICARD: That is not in my power.
NURIA: Why? You restored Liko's life. Did the six who died offend you in some way? Did I offended you? Should I have ordered the death of Troi? Please, you must tell me if there's anything I can do to change your mind.
PICARD: I've failed to get through to you, haven't I? Despite all my efforts.

[Assembly hall]
OJI: Nuria can't be found. No one knows where she's gone.
LIKO: Hali, any sign of Palmer or Riker?
HALI: They have escaped us. We searched everywhere.
OJI: What do we do now, father?
LIKO: We must do as the Picard wishes. Punish those responsible.
FENTO: Nuria would not allow us to
LIKO: Nuria isn't here. We can't wait.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Picard. I think we're going to lose Warren.
PICARD (voiceover): On my way.
BARRON: I'm here, Mary.
CRUSHER: Prepare two cc's of norep.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry.
NURIA: Picard, you could not save her?
PICARD: No.
NURIA: You do have limits. You are not masters of life and death.
PICARD: No, we are not. We can cure many diseases and we can repair injuries, we can even extend life. But for all our knowledge, all our advances, we are just as mortal as you are. We're just as powerless to prevent the inevitable.
NURIA: You are a remarkable people, but you are not superior beings. My people must be made to understand that.

[Assembly hall]
TROI: Liko, you don't want to kill me.
LIKO: I have no choice. I must do as the Picard wishes.
TROI: Are you sure you know what he wants? That's the problem with believing in a supernatural being. Trying to determine what he wants.
LIKO: We must do something.
OJI: But what if we do the wrong thing, father?
LIKO: Picard, we need your guidance. Is it your wish that this woman should die? Answer us. Speak.
PICARD: Liko!
LIKO: The Picard. The Overseer has come.
PICARD: No. Liko. Liko, I am a man. I am not the Overseer. I am a traveler from a faraway land. Nothing more.
LIKO: But you have restored my life. I am your servant.
PICARD: You are no one's servant, Liko. I neither desire your obedience nor your worship.
NURIA: Picard speaks the truth. I have visited his people. I have seen how they live and how they die. When death takes one of their loved ones, they are as helpless as we are.
LIKO: Then how was I brought back to life?
NURIA: Liko, you were not dead. Picard's people have a knowledge that we lack. They are able to heal wounds that we cannot.
LIKO: No. No. He can bring back the dead. Show them, Picard. You can bring my wife back to me.
PICARD: I cannot.
LIKO: Why? Why won't you do this for me? Have I failed you in some way? Are you angry with me?
PICARD: I am not angry with you.
LIKO: Then I beg you, bring her back to me. I will give you my life in exchange. Please, take back what you gave me. Give it to her. Let her live!
PICARD: It is beyond my power.
LIKO: Nothing is beyond your power! You are the Overseer. I will prove it!
NURIA: Liko!
PICARD: If you believe I am all-powerful, then you cannot hurt me. If, however, I am telling the truth and I am mortal, you will kill me. But if the only proof you will believe is my death, then shoot.
NURIA: Liko, don't do it!
OJI: Father, no!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Crusher has repaired my injury with her usual skill. Mister La Forge will supervise the dismantling of the observation post after I make one last visit to Mintaka Three.

[Hillside]
PICARD: Now, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
NURIA: What is that?
PICARD: A place where we can watch your people.
FENTO: But why?
PICARD: To study you. To understand your ways. Discontinue, Mister La Forge.
NURIA: Picard, why should a people so advanced want to learn about us?
PICARD: We were once as you are now. To study you is to understand ourselves.
FENTO: But why did you have to hide yourself from us?
LIKO: Because their presence would affect us, just as it affected me.
PICARD: It is our highest law that we shall not interfere with other cultures.
OJI: Then revealing yourselves was an accident.
PICARD: Oh, yes, and now we must leave you.
OJI: Why? There's so much you can teach us.
PICARD: But that, too, would be interference. You must progress in your own way.
NURIA: So we will. You have taught us there is nothing beyond our reach.
PICARD: Not even the stars.
NURIA: Pahkee.
NURIA: I wish you good journeys, Picard. Remember my people.
PICARD: Always.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, away team reporting in. Lieutenant Worf standing by.
RIKER: This is Riker. Go ahead, Lieutenant.
WORF (voiceover): The archeologists have identified the markings in these caverns. This planet was apparently once home to a race known as the Koinonians.
PICARD: What do we know about them, Data?
DATA: The Koinonians were an intelligent culture which became embroiled in a war that lasted for several generations. Our best evidence indicates they destroyed themselves.
WORF (voiceover): We have completed our survey of the third tunnel and will proceed into the ceremonial chamber.
RIKER: Affirmative. Enterprise out.
PICARD: Destroyed themselves, Data?
DATA: According to historical records. This will be the first opportunity for a Federation team
TROI: Captain! Beam them up quickly!
WORF (voiceover): Captain. Emergency beam up! Enterprise, emergency! Severe injuries.
PICARD: Transporter Room!
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I've got them, Captain.
PICARD: Beam them straight to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher, incoming wounded.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Away Team is aboard, Captain.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): One dead on arrival. Captain's Log, stardate 43198.7. The Enterprise remains in standard orbit while we investigate the tragedy which has struck the away team. Lieutenant Marla Aster, ship's archeologist, has been killed in what should have been a routine mission. Whatever the explanation, it will not bring back a valued and trusted officer.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: We had completed our investigation of the third tunnel. Our scans had indicated no weapons or traps of any kind. Lieutenant Aster was three meters behind me. An explosive device went off. There was no warning. Lieutenant Aster bore the full brunt of the detonation.
TROI: Lieutenant Aster is survived by a son, Jeremy. Twelve years old. He's aboard the Enterprise, sir.
PICARD: And his father?
TROI: He's also deceased. His only living relatives are an aunt and uncle residing on Earth.
PICARD: Where is he now?
TROI: In class. I've alerted the teacher to expect us.
WORF: Captain. I must accompany you. I commanded the away team.
PICARD: I appreciate your offer, Lieutenant, but this is my responsibility.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Assign Commander La Forge to lead another away team to the dig site. I want to know why this happened.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: I will be with Counselor Troi

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): And young Jeremy Aster.
RIKER: I understand. Riker out.
WESLEY: He had to do the same thing for me.
RIKER: Do you know Jeremy well?
WESLEY: But I know this is going to be like for him.
RIKER: That's part of life in Starfleet, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know. They're very careful to prepare us for anything, but still
RIKER: I know.
WESLEY: How do you get used to it? Telling them?
RIKER: You hope you never do.

[Turbolift]
TROI: I sense the weight of this duty on you, Captain.
PICARD: I really wonder. Halt. I've always believed that carrying children on a starship is a very questionable policy. Serving on a starship means accepting certain risks, certain dangers. Did Jeremy Aster make that choice?
TROI: Death and loss are an integral part of life everywhere. Leaving him on Earth would not have protected him.
PICARD: No, but Earth isn't likely to be ordered to the Neutral Zone, or to repel a Romulan attack, It was my command which sent his mother to her death. She understood her mission and my duty. Will he?
TROI: In time, and with help. Wesley Crusher does. He does. And so will Jeremy.
PICARD: Resume.

[Teacher's office]
PICARD: Jeremy, I have some bad news. There has been an accident. Your mother has died.
JEREMY: How, sir?
PICARD: An explosive device at the mission site. She died instantly.
JEREMY: I understand.
TROI: Jeremy, I know your mother loved you very much.
PICARD: I'm told that your father is also dead.
JEREMY: Yes, sir. He died five years ago from a Rushton infection. I'm all alone now, sir.
PICARD: Jeremy, on the starship Enterprise, no one is alone. No one.

[Ten forward]
DATA: Excuse me, sir. Am I intruding?
RIKER: No, sit down.
DATA: How well did you know Lieutenant Aster?
RIKER: We spent some time together. Not very well. How well did you know her?
DATA: Why do you ask?
RIKER: Well, you just asked me.
DATA: But why do you ask the question? Since her death, I have been asked several times to define how well I knew Lieutenant Aster. And I heard you ask Wesley on the Bridge how well he knew Jeremy. Does the question of familiarity have some bearing on death?
RIKER: Do you remember how we all felt when Tasha died?
DATA: I do not sense the same feelings of absence that I associate with Lieutenant Yar, although I cannot say precisely why.
RIKER: Just human nature, Data.
DATA: Human nature, sir?
RIKER: We feel a loss more intensely when it's a friend.
DATA: But should not the feelings run as deep regardless of who has died?
RIKER: Maybe they should, Data. Maybe if we felt the loss of any life as keenly as we felt the death of those close to us, human history would be a lot less bloody.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Riker
RIKER: You're back, Geordi
LAFORGE (voiceover): Yes, sir, and we've brought back a souvenir.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: There are five more just like them. All identical to the one that killed Lieutenant Aster.
DATA: They employ a subspace proximity detonator. A normal tricorder would never detect it.
PICARD: How long would you say they've been there, Data?
DATA: It comes from the time of the Koinonian Wars, sir.
RIKER: Did you find them all, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yeah, but, well, it seemed like they were left there to be found.
PICARD: Left by whom? There are no indications of life on this planet.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain, but it was pretty obvious that they'd been recently pulled out of the ground and defused.

[Room]
WORF: I have made my report to the Captain.
TROI: I'm more interested in how you feel about what happened. I sense great anger.
WORF: I cannot seek revenge against an enemy who's turned to dust centuries ago. Her death was senseless. The last victim of a forgotten war.
TROI: Go on.
WORF: There's nothing more to be said.
TROI: A person died under your command. It may happen again. If you can't learn to release the anger and the guilt, to talk about it
WORF: A leader must stand alone. As Captain Picard does.
TROI: Captain Picard talks to me.
WORF: Then may I seek your counsel about my plan to make the R'uustai with the boy.
TROI: The Bonding.
WORF: It is my right.
TROI: It's very generous, Worf, but he's not a Klingon child. He has different sensibilities.
WORF: He is an orphan. I am an orphan. He will understand.
TROI: Right now, there isn't much he can understand. He's holding all his feelings inside. Children often feel they must be true to the memory of a lost parent. If you offer affection to them too soon they can feel guilty returning that affection. As if they're betraying the love of the parent.
WORF: I only wish to honor his mother.
TROI: I know. And I understand this means a great deal to you. But you must be prepared. He's very angry too, but his anger is deep inside him. When he touches it, it will strike out in many directions, including yours. Be with him. Talk to him. But don't rush this. When he's ready, we'll know.

[Jeremy's quarters]
JEREMY (voiceover): Captain Patches, an alien ship on the surface. What's it made of, Captain. Oh, no, we've been hit, Captain. We're going down.
DAD (voiceover): That was great. Now, let's get a shot of mom.
MARLA (screen): What are you doing? I'll turn your lens into shards. Go away! Go away! Go away! Over there. Over there.
JEREMY (screen): Patches. Captain Patches is coming in for a landing on the sofa!
JEREMY (voiceover): Oh, no, he's going to crash.
WORF: Jeremy Aster? I'm Lieutenant Worf. May I enter?
JEREMY: You were in command of the away team.
WORF: Yes. I was with Lieutenant Aster, your mother, when she died.
JEREMY: You're a Klingon, aren't you.
WORF: Yes.
JEREMY: We studied about Klingons in school.
WORF: What did they teach you about us?
JEREMY: You used to be our enemies.
WORF: Did they also teach you that every Klingon hopes to die in the line of duty as your mother did? In my tradition, we do not grieve the loss of the body. We celebrate the releasing of the spirit.
JEREMY: I understand death. They teach us all about it.
WORF: Jeremy Aster, we may both understand it, but we must bring meaning to your mother's death. Perhaps we can do it together.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Counselor, how's the boy?
TROI: He's being very brave.
PICARD: Good.
TROI: No, he has to get past brave. He's very angry and he has to learn how to express that anger before he can really say goodbye to his mother.
PICARD: How can we help?
TROI: Well, I've asked Beverly if we might get Wesley to talk to Jeremy about his father's death. The one unusual element is Worf.
PICARD: Oh?
TROI: In many ways he's suffering as badly as the boy. He wishes to involve Jeremy in a Klingon ceremony called R'uustai, the Bonding
PICARD: I know of that. Perhaps it will be helpful to both of them.
TROI: I don't think Jeremy's ready to accept Worf right now. Perhaps later, but it will have to be handled most delicately.
PICARD: As you always do. I break the unpleasant news and there my responsibility ends, but you, you have to stay with them through the entire grieving process.
TROI: We deal with our pain in many different ways, but over the years I've discovered it is in our joy that the uniqueness of each individual is revealed. If I can help a person back to a state of joy, well, my role has its rewards.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we're picking up an energy field on the planet surface.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Location?
RIKER: Two kilometers north of the away team's beam-down point.
PICARD: Indeed? Full scan.
DATA: Inconclusive, Captain.
TROI: Sir, I', sensing a presence on the planet. Very vague.
PICARD: Life form?
TROI: I can't be sure. The emotions of the crew are particularly strong right now. It's difficult to filter them out.
PICARD: Data, scan analysis on main viewer.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: Hi.
CRUSHER: Hi. Troi stopped by a little while ago. She was wondering if you might be willing to talk to Jeremy Aster at some point.
WESLEY: Me? What for?
CRUSHER: About your Dad.
WESLEY: What am I going to tell him?
CRUSHER: It would help him to talk with someone who's been through this. We had each other, Wes. He doesn't have anyone to lean on right now. And he might be more comfortable talking to someone who's not much older than he is.
WESLEY: Okay, I'll think about it.
CRUSHER: Okay.
WESLEY: Do you ever think about him, Mom?
CRUSHER: Your father? Sure I do.
WESLEY: Sometimes I can't even remember what his face looks like. It scares me.
CRUSHER: It happens to all of us, Wes. Sometimes I can't get his face out of my mind.
WESLEY: Today, today it's like I can see it all as clearly as if it were yesterday. I can remember the way Dad looked when he hugged me goodbye. Captain Picard's eyes when he came to tell us

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, run comparison of known phenomena.
DATA: The pattern has no exact match in Federation records, sir.
PICARD: Is it alive?
DATA: A possibility.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, I'm getting an unusual magnetic flux reading from the anti-matter containment pods.
TROI: My God.

[Jeremy's quarters]
JEREMY (voiceover): Wait a minute, wait a minute. Okay, you've got ten seconds more, Mom. No peeking. Come on, Patches, in here. Shh. Okay, Mom, we're ready.
MARLA (screen): Jeremy? I'm getting closer. Jeremy, I'm going to find you. You must be in here somewhere.
MARLA: Jeremy!
JEREMY: Mom?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: All systems are functioning normally. Still, there's this fluctuation in the containment field. I can't account for it.
RIKER: Data, is this possibly related to the energy fields on the planet?
TROI: Captain
DATA: There is a beam of highly charged particles emanating from the planet, sir, but I cannot pinpoint the location yet.
TROI: Captain, there's a presence on the Enterprise.
PICARD: An alien presence?
DATA: No intruder noted by the sensors, sir.
TROI: There is a presence.
RIKER: Security, all decks yellow alert. Possible intruder.

[Jeremy's quarters]
JEREMY: They said you were dead.
MARLA: There was a mistake. It's okay.
JEREMY: But there was an explosion. You were hurt.
MARLA: I'm fine. You mustn't think any more about this. The important thing is I'm never going to leave you again. I think somebody needs a hug.
MARLA: We have to go now.
JEREMY: Where?
MARLA: To the planet. That's where we're going to live now.
JEREMY: We're not going to stay on the Enterprise any more?
MARLA: No. We're going to live in a home just like we used to on Earth. You'll see. I promise.
JEREMY: Lieutenant Worf! Did they tell you? It was a mistake. She didn't die. She's alive.
WORF: Jeremy, come here.
MARLA: Lieutenant Worf. It's all right. I'm here for the boy.
WORF: Lieutenant Worf to Captain Picard.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): Lieutenant Aster is in her quarters.
RIKER: Repeat, Worf?

[Jeremy's quarters]
WORF: Lieutenant Aster is here. In her quarters with the boy.
PICARD (voiceover): Do not provoke her

[Bridge]
PICARD: Or interfere in any way until I arrive. Picard out. Number One, have Security moving that way but tell them to keep their distance. You have the Bridge. Counselor.

[Jeremy's quarters]
MARLA: There is nothing to worry about. I'm going to take care of Jeremy and make him happy. It's time to go.
WORF: Where are you taking the child?
JEREMY: To the planet.
MARLA: Come, Jeremy.
WORF: Worf to Picard, they're leaving their quarters.

[Turbolift]
WORF (voiceover): Captain, I believe we're headed for transporter room three.
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Transporter room]
MARLA: Chief O'Brien, Jeremy and I are going down to the surface.
PICARD: Who are you?
MARLA: I'm Marla Aster.
JEREMY: It's my mother, Captain. She's alive.
PICARD: What do you want?
MARLA: To take my child down to the planet.
PICARD: I cannot permit that. The boy is my responsibility.
MARLA: I'm here to care for him. He needs me. Why do you resist?
PICARD: Because I don't know who or what you are.
JEREMY: Can't you see who it is, Captain?
PICARD: Jeremy, she appears to be your mother, but she is not.
JEREMY: What do you mean?
MARLA: You're confusing the boy.
JEREMY: Hey! Wait! Stop! No! No! Wait! Stop!
JEREMY: Mom! Mom?
TROI: Jeremy
JEREMY: Wait a minute. Let go of me. She was right there!

[Corridor]
JEREMY: What did you do to her?
TROI: Jeremy, I don't know what that was, but it was not your mother.
JEREMY: You saw her. She was here.
TROI: Your mother's dead.
JEREMY: But I touched her. She was real.
TROI: Why would your real mother want you to go down to the planet? There's nothing there but dust and rocks.

[Aster home]
JEREMY: It's my house. It's my house on Earth.
MARLA: Exactly the way it was. Remember, Jeremy?
JEREMY: How did you do it?
MARLA: Does it matter?
TROI: Yes, it matters.
MARLA: I am trying to understand your resistance. You spoke of rocks and dust on the planet. I decided to show you what awaits us there.
TROI: Why would you create this fantasy?
MARLA: It's his home. And it makes you happy, doesn't it?
TROI: But it's not real.
MARLA: Isn't it? Jeremy, isn't that really Patches?
JEREMY: He knows me. It's him. It's real. It's all real.
TROI: No, it's not. Could your real mother just make all this appear? You must not stay here. Come with me.
JEREMY: I can't.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is the boy in any danger?
TROI (voiceover): I don't think so. She seems to want to help him.
PICARD: Help him?

[Aster home]
TROI: By easing his pain. She's very confused by our resistance, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Troi, would it be wise to remove Jeremy from his cabin?
TROI: He doesn't want to leave. I would not recommend taking him

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): By force.
RIKER: She offers him everything. All we offer is the cold reality of his mother's death.
CRUSHER: What would you choose? If somebody came along and offered to give you back your mother, father or husband, would any of us say no so easily?
PICARD: Counselor, stay with them in Jeremy's quarters.

[Aster home]
PICARD (voiceover): We'll try and put an end to this from here.
TROI: Understood.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, can you determine for certain that the energy source from the planet is powering this creation?
DATA: The beam from the planet is clearly tapping into the ship's anti-matter, Captain.
LAFORGE: I'd say they're running the manifestation off our own energy.
PICARD: So there are limits to her power.
RIKER: She needs the transporter to get the boy back.
PICARD: So how do we cut the puppet's strings?
LAFORGE: Increasing the shield harmonics to match our own antimatter containment fields will probably sever the beam.
PICARD: Proceed.
RIKER: Deanna, stand by.
TROI (voiceover): Standing by.

[Aster home]
TROI: Jeremy, it's time for this to end. It's not real and it's over now.
MARLA: Jeremy, I'm not going to leave you ever again.
TROI: I won't trick you or lie to you.
MARLA: We'll be happy together, Jeremy, as soon as
JEREMY: No.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Anti-matter containment pods reading nominal.
DATA: The shield has severed the beam, sir. Captain, the energy field.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, take us out of here.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Alien intruder, transporter room three. Security alert. Alien

[Bridge]
WORF: Security to transporter room three.
PICARD: Commander La Forge, Mister Worf, come with me. Number One, you have the Bridge.

[Jeremy's quarters]
MARLA: Come, Jeremy. We will not let them separate us again. We're going home.

[Turbolift]
TROI (voiceover): Captain, she's back. She's trying to take Jeremy off the ship again.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: Engineering, this is La Forge. Shut down power to all transporters. I'm on my way.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, aye, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, to transporter room three.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Bridge, seal off deck eight, corridors A and B.

[Bridge]
DATA: Engaging force fields, Captain. Transporters down.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Energy force has left transporter room three. Security alert, all decks.

[Bridge]
RIKER: La Forge, the intruder may try to reinstate

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Transporter power.
LAFORGE: Understood, Commander.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Bridge, release security forcefield eight B. Hello, Jeremy. How are you? Are you frightened?
JEREMY: No. Well, a little, sir.
PICARD: Of course. These are frightening things that are happening. But we won't let anyone harm you. Counselor, why don't you take the boy to my quarters.
MARLA: No!

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It's looking over everything, Commander, going to school. Let's just hope it doesn't blow us to kingdom come while it's figuring out how to blow us to kingdom come.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Power's back in transporter room three.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Bypassing the manual override. Shutting it down.

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): Transporter is down again.
RIKER: Keep it down, Geordi, for as long as you can.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Understood, Commander.

[Aster home]
MARLA: It is only a matter of time, Captain, before we can power the transporters ourselves
PICARD: We? For whom else do you speak?
MARLA: The accident on the surface was caused by a remnant of an ancient and tragic era. Two species once shared this world. One of energy and one of matter. The physical beings you call the Koinonians destroyed themselves in unending, bitter wars. The surviving life forms on this world will not tolerate any further suffering as a result of that dishonorable past. So, they have made this possible. They have made me possible.
PICARD: I appreciate your motives, but his mother is dead. He must learn to live with that.
MARLA: I will be every bit his mother.
PICARD: But not his mother. Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: Will you escort Ensign Crusher to the Aster quarters?
WORF (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: Picard out.
MARLA: Your philosophy is curious, Captain. What is so noble about sorrow? I can provide him an existence where he will feel no pain, no anguish.
PICARD: It is at the heart of our nature to feel pain and joy. It is an essential part of what makes us what we are.
MARLA: He is alone now in your world. A child, alone. How can you know he won't be happier with me?
PICARD: For a brief moment in time, he surely would be. Any of us in his place would be.
TROI: What would Jeremy do for friends in your world?
MARLA: He will have any friends he needs.
TROI: And will you provide for his education, his health, his growth, a career, a wife?
PICARD: Yes, it's quite an undertaking you're proposing, isn't it?
MARLA: It is our duty to make him happy again.
PICARD: Do you honestly believe he would be happy in this total fiction which you wish to create? What reason would he have to live? What you're offering him is a memory, something to cherish, not to live in. It is part of our life cycle that we accept the death of those we love. Jeremy must come to terms with his grief. He must not cover it or hide away from it. You see, we are mortal. Our time in this universe is finite. That is one of the truths that all human must learn.
WESLEY: Acting Ensign Crusher reporting as ordered, sir.
PICARD: Yes. Come in, Wesley. Please stay, Lieutenant. Jeremy, Wesley's father died on a Starfleet mission when he was younger than you are.
TROI: Wes, your mother told me you were finding it difficult to talk to Jeremy. Why is that?
WESLEY: I don't know. I just didn't want to think about it any more. All this has reminded me so much of that day.
PICARD: The day I told you your father had been killed. As I recall, Wesley, you took it very well.
WESLEY: My parents taught me about the dangers of Starfleet missions. I knew what could happen.
PICARD: So you were prepared?
WESLEY: No, I wasn't prepared at all. How could anyone be prepared to hear that a parent is never coming home again? I tried to be what everybody expected of me. Brave and mature.
PICARD: Wesley, are you saying that you didn't want anybody to see what you were really feeling? What were you really feeling?
WESLEY: Like somebody had kicked me in the head.
PICARD: Somebody?
TROI: Go on. You've wanted to tell him for a long time.
WESLEY: I was angry at you.
PICARD: Why angry? Why were you angry at me, Wesley? Were you angry at me because I was the one who told you your father was dead?
WESLEY: No.
PICARD: Then why?
WESLEY: Because you led the mission. You came home and my father didn't.
TROI: How long were you angry with the Captain, Wes?
WESLEY: For a long time. But not any more, sir. Not even a little.
TROI: So, Jeremy, you must be very angry at Lieutenant Worf. He was in charge of your mother's mission, just as Captain Picard was in command when Wesley's father was killed. Isn't that right? Worf came back. Your mother didn't.
JEREMY: Why? Why weren't you the one who died? Why did it have to be her?
TROI: He can't answer that. None of us can.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf also lost his parents.
WORF: They were killed in battle when I was six. When I was alone, humans helped me. Let me help you. The Marla Aster I knew and honored is not in this room. Nor does she await you on the planet. Now she lives only here And here. Join me in the R'uustai, the Bonding. You will become part of my family now and for all time. We will be brothers.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: SoS jIH batlh SoH.
JEREMY: What does that mean?
WORF: It honors the memory of our mothers. We have bonded and our families are stronger.
JEREMY: SoS jIH batlh SoH.

[Beach]
LAFORGE: Another Coco-no-no?
CHRISTY: No thanks, I think I've had enough already.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, me too. Oh, I almost forgot.
CHRISTY: Geordi. I'm sorry. I think I'd better go back.
LAFORGE: Too chilly? I can turn down the breeze.
CHRISTY: No, it's been a lovely program.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
CHRISTY: And you're a terrific guy.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
CHRISTY: I just don't feel that way about you.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Knock it off.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: This was the final battle, wasn't it?
DATA: Neither side intended Orelious Nine to be the decisive conflict.
WESLEY: There's not much left, is there.
DATA: The destruction is remarkable considering the primitive weapons of the period.
WESLEY: Uh, oh.
DATA: I beg your pardon, Wesley?
WESLEY: Geordi had a big date with Christy tonight. He spent days putting together the perfect program. Looks like it ended kind of early.
DATA: Uh, oh.
RIKER (voiceover): Commander Data to the Bridge immediately.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're picking up a signal, coordinates two one one mark six one.
PICARD: It would seen to be an ancient interplanetary code. Mister Data?
DATA: Confirmed, sir.
RIKER: Survivors on Orelious Nine after all this time? Not possible.
PICARD: Well, hardly possible, Number One. Lay in a course to the source of the signal.
DATA: Approaching the source, Captain.
PICARD: Put it on the viewer.
WORF: A Promellian battle cruiser?
PICARD: With its Lang-cycle fusion engines still intact.
DATA: Sensors indicate no life signs aboard, Captain.
PICARD: I should hope not, Mister Data. That ship belongs in a museum. I'm afraid we're a little late. That call for help was probably initiated over a thousand years ago.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43205.6. We have arrived at Orelious Nine, to chart the battle in which the Menthars and Promellians fought to their mutual extinction. Among the ruins we have found a relic, a Promellian battle cruiser that has withstood the centuries.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Indulge me, Number One.
RIKER: I would prefer it if Lieutenant Worf and I were able to a security sweep of the ship first.
PICARD: No. Captain's prerogative. This one's mine. We have examined every conceivable risk.
RIKER: The risks on a ship this old and fragile are inconceivable, Captain.
PICARD: Ghosts, perhaps? Number One, have you never dreamed of climbing inside the bottle?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The ship in the bottle. Model air ships. I used to build them when I was a child. My God, I bet I had a Promellian battle cruiser too.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Ready to beam down to the vessel?
O'BRIEN: Locked on to the main bridge, Captain.
RIKER: You're certain about the atmospheric conditions, Data ?
DATA: There is adequate oxygen for life support, Commander.
PICARD: It is exactly as they left it, Number One. In the bottle. The ship in the bottle. Good Lord, didn't anybody here build ships in bottles when they were boys?
WORF: I did not play with toys.
DATA: I was never a boy.
O'BRIEN: I did, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister O'Brien. Proceed.
O'BRIEN: I did. I really did. Ships in bottles. Great fun.
RIKER: What's that?
O'BRIEN: I'm not sure. The secondary power bus may need adjusting.
RIKER: Keep me posted.

[Warship Bridge]
PICARD: Extraordinary.
WORF: Admirable. They died at their posts.
PICARD: Hmm. You'd expect the bridge layout of this era to be clumsy, awkward, but look at this. It's a model of simplicity. Elegant, functional. They built this craft for generations. And it worked.

[Ten forward]
LAFORGE: Don't you have anything stronger than this, Guinan?
GUINAN: Yes.
LAFORGE: Would it help?
GUINAN: No.
LAFORGE: Tell me something, Guinan. You're a woman, right?
GUINAN: Yes, I can tell you I'm a woman.
LAFORGE: What is it that you want in a man?
GUINAN: Me personally?
LAFORGE: As a woman. What's the first thing you look at?
GUINAN: His head.
LAFORGE: His mind. Of course.
GUINAN: No, his head. I'm attracted to bald men.
LAFORGE: Seriously?
GUINAN: Seriously.
LAFORGE: Why?
GUINAN: Maybe because a bald man was very kind to me once when I was hurting. Took care of me.
LAFORGE: I'd like to do that.
GUINAN: I take care of myself these days.
LAFORGE: I mean, take care of somebody. I just don't get it, Guinan. I can field strip a fusion reactor. I can realign a power transfer tunnel. Why can't I make anything work with a woman like Christi? It's like I don't know what to do, I don't know what to say.
GUINAN: You're doing fine with me.
LAFORGE: You're different.
GUINAN: No, you're different.
LAFORGE: But I'm not trying now.
GUINAN: That's my point.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What is it, Wes?
WESLEY: The main power returner is acting a little weird.
RIKER: Define weird.
WESLEY: I'm getting fluctuating waveguide readings.
RIKER: Run a maintenance sweep.
WESLEY: Right.

[Warship]
DATA: Activating power pack, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, be sure we get tricorder images of their tactical display.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: The source of the distress signal appears to be coming from up there, Captain.
PICARD: Let's put an end to their last cry for help.
DATA: Captain, I believe this is an information storage device. A crude analog of our isolinear optical chip.
PICARD: Crude by our standards today, Data. But when this ship was built, humans on Earth were just perfecting the mechanical clock, still using steel crossbows in battle. Is there any way to see what's on this?
DATA: Questionable, sir. I believe I can supply power to its playback unit, but its components are quite old. I will attempt to amplify its image with my tricorder.
GALEK SAR (screen): I am Galek Sar, Captain of the Promellian cruiser, Cleponji. I wish anyone who finds this record to know my crew has behaved courageously. I want it recorded for all time that I, alone, am responsible for the fate that befell us. I have failed as a captain, and as the man responsible for all the souls aboard my ship.
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise.
RIKER (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: I think we have seen all there is to see here. At Mister O'Brien's leisure, we're ready to return.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Thrilling. That was absolutely thrilling. And I was right, Number One. There were ghosts aboard that old ship. One of them actually spoke to us.
RIKER: A friendly one, I hope?
PICARD: My own counterpart. The captain's final message, praising his crew.
RIKER: I hope you'll be as thoughtful when the time comes.
PICARD: Mister Data, advise the Astral Five annex. This should be catalogd and scheduled for retrieval.
DATA: Aye, sir.
TROI: I'm sorry, Captain, it's just a rare pleasure to meet this side of your personality.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the original coordinates.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are experiencing a two percent drop in energy reserves. Compensating.
RIKER: We were having a few problems while
WORF: Readouts indicate we are being bombarded with a field of high intensity radiation.
RIKER: Shields up.
DATA: Captain, energy loss increasing to five percent.
PICARD: Yellow Alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Energy loss increasing, sir.
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Reverse course. Full impulse power.
WESLEY: No response, sir.
PICARD: Increase speed to warp one.
WESLEY: Engines are not responding, Captain.
RIKER: Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): We need warp power now!
LAFORGE: Matter-anti matter mixture ratio settings at optimum balance Reaction sequence corresponding to specified norms. Magnetic plasma transfer to warp field generators per program specs. Commander, we should be going like a bat out of hell.

[Bridge]
DATA: Power loss now at twelve percent, Captain.
PICARD: Red alert.
WORF: Radiation intensity increasing.
LAFORGE (voiceover): We'd better slow these engines down before we burn out the reaction chamber.
RIKER: Slow to idle, Geordi.
PICARD: Is it possible we've fallen into the same snare that killed them? A thousand year old booby trap?

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: With the engines idling, the energy loss has been limited, but our reserves will be depleted in less than three hours. We won't be able to hold our shields in place.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have you been able to identify the source of the radiation?
WORF: No, sir. The radiation field is so strong it interferes with our sensors.
PICARD: And no apparent explanation for the energy loss?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
RIKER: Is there anything in the history books, Data, that could give us a clue?
DATA: There are many fascinating records of Menthar battle strategy. They were exceptionally innovative. In fact, they were the first to use the Kavis Teke elusive maneuver as well as the passive lure stratagem that is comparable to Napoleon's
RIKER: Any mention of a situation like this?
DATA: No, sir.
RIKER: I recommend that I return to the cruiser with an away team.
LAFORGE: They didn't have much success with this problem, Commander.
RIKER: No, but they knew who their enemy was better than we do. They may have known what caused the trouble. They just didn't know how to get out.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf, what would be the impact of lowering the shields long enough to get the away team out?
WORF: Negligible.
LAFORGE: Won't do much for our energy conservation, Captain.
PICARD: That's your job, Commander La Forge. Determine some way to keep the Enterprise up and running. Data, you join Commander Riker on the away team. Find out what happened on that ship.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: So why can't we move? Computer. As we increased our power levels, was there any counter-reaction?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. The opposing force grew in direct proportion to the power output of the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: So it kept us from forming a subspace field for the warp drive?
COMPUTER: That is correct.
LAFORGE: Computer, who is this L. Brahms?
COMPUTER: Doctor Leah Brahms, engineer. Graduate of the Daystrom Institute Theoretical Propulsion Group. Galaxy class starships, team seven, junior member.
LAFORGE: Junior member, huh? Looks like she wrote the book on propulsion. Call up subspace design logs.
COMPUTER: Select menu. Visual records or L. Brahms' voice entries.
LAFORGE: Voice entries.
LEAH (voiceover): Theoretical propulsion logs, Federation Starship Enterprise, Galaxy class. Heading, Subspace. Author, Leah Brahms.
LAFORGE: Geordi La Forge. How're you doing, Doc?
LEAH (voiceover): Specify program.
LAFORGE: Yeah, down to work. You're absolutely right.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I recommend we evacuate and seal off all non-operational areas, and group the families and crew on the odd-numbered decks.
PICARD: Proceed.
CRUSHER: I'd also like to set up an assembly area for treating radiation symptoms in case it's needed.
PICARD: After the shields fall, how long before fatal exposure?
CRUSHER: Thirty minutes. After that, there is nothing that can be done.
RIKER (voiceover): Away team to Enterprise. Captain, we may have found something. There's a file of memory

[Warship Bridge]
RIKER: Coils here.
DATA: They are identical to the coil we found earlier, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): The
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, perhaps?
RIKER: That's what we were thinking.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, are they in working condition?
DATA (voiceover): I believe so, sir.

[Warship Bridge]
DATA: We can enhance them through the image processor in the ship's computer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good. Return at once.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Computer, generate a cross section image of the dilithium crystal chamber. What about re-orienting the crystal?
LEAH (voiceover): It is possible to reorient the crystal. The key lies in adjusting the lattice structure direction. This modification will be integrated into the next class starship.
LAFORGE: Sorry, can't wait. You and me, Leah, we've got just two hours to figure this thing out. You know what I need to do? I need to get inside there. I need to be able to turn that thing inside out. Computer, is there a cross section image we can replicate on a holodeck?
COMPUTER: Select menu. Design specifications or prototype schematic.
LAFORGE: Prototype? Elaborate.
COMPUTER: A development stage prototype schematic at Utopia Planitia. Drafting room five of the Mars Station, Stardate 40174.
LAFORGE: Perfect. Recreate it in holodeck three. Stay with me, Doc.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Ready, computer?
COMPUTER: Holodeck three program is ready.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Damn. Right back where it all started. Whoa, this is incredible. Leah, did you design this?
LEAH (voiceover): The dilithium crystal chamber was designed at outpost designated Seran T One, Stardate 40052. Some of the Federation's best engineering minds participated in its development.
LAFORGE: That's the visiting dignitary talk. What's the inside story? Off the record.
COMPUTER: Access denied. Personal logs are restricted.
LAFORGE: Great. Another woman who won't get personal with me in the holodeck. Leah, I want to find a way to supplement the energy supply to the ship and to the engines. Could we alter the matter-antimatter paths?
LEAH (voiceover): Theoretically, yes. The system should be able to accept more reactants at a faster rate of injection.
LAFORGE: Well, this is your baby. Show me which ones.
LAFORGE: Computer, did I ask for a simulation?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. You asked Doctor Brahms to show you which system could accept reactants at a faster rate. By accessing available imagery, an adequate facsimile was possible.
LAFORGE: I did do that, didn't I? Okay, well, it's good to see you, Leah. Continue your analysis.
LEAH: Systems L-452 through L-575 will accept reactants, providing all other systems are calibrated to an equal factor.
LAFORGE: Then, if we use multiple injector streams, hitting more than one crystal facet, we could do it, we could hold our own. Leah, you're beautiful. La Forge to Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've found a way to extend the matter-antimatter energy supplies.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge.
RIKER: Geordi, can you give us enough power to get us out of here?

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander, we haven't addressed that one yet. First priority was to maintain the shields.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE (voiceover): We'll get to work on it right away, Sir.
PICARD: Pass my congratulations to the rest of your team.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Thanks, Captain. We're all smiles down here.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain. We've been able to verify that these coils are the logs of the Promellian captain, but most of them have decayed and cannot be repaired.
RIKER: Can you get any playback at all?
DATA: On most, there are brief sections which may yield some information.
RIKER: Do the best you can, Data. Let's just hope we can get the section we need.
PICARD: Surely he must have logged the cause of the ship's death. What captain wouldn't?
RIKER: All found in an open locker? I don't think he was too concerned with security.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: 452 through system L-575.
COMPUTER: Adjustments to dilithium crystal chamber complete.
LAFORGE: Impact analysis, computer.
COMPUTER: Warp energy has increased fourteen percent. Reactants per unit time remaining steady.
LAFORGE: Yes! All right! Computer, do you have any, you know, personality on file for Doctor Brahms?
COMPUTER: Starfleet personality profile analysis, stardate 40056.
LAFORGE: Did she ever debate at the intergalactic caucuses on Chaya Seven?
COMPUTER: Doctor Brahms attended Chaya Seven caucuses on the following stardates
LAFORGE: Never mind the dates. Computer, if you add data from all these sources, could you synthesize a true representation of Doctor Brahms?
COMPUTER: There would be a nine point three seven percent margin of error in the interactive responses from the facsimile.
LAFORGE: I can live with that. Do it. Doctor Brahms?
LEAH: Geordi, it's me, Leah. Don't start calling me Doctor Brahms or I'll call you Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Right.
LEAH: Now, we've managed to maintain energy but we can't leave it in this realignment forever without burning out components, so we need to move quickly.
LEAH: Are you with me?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah! Yeah!.

[Bridge]
GALEK SAR (screen): We have been stripped of all propulsion, and our weapons are useless. We cannot move and we cannot fight. The ship is being lashed with lethal radiation from the aceton assimilators concealed in the wreckage surrounding the
PICARD: Aceton assimilators?
DATA: Aceton assimilators are a primitive generator which can drain power from distant sources.
RIKER: Generators?
DATA: It would not be difficult to modify them to convert energy into radiation.
RIKER: The Menthars hide them in floating debris. An unsuspecting enemy ship flies in. Instant booby trap.
PICARD: And now we're supplying the devices with the energy to kill us.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: No, no, no!
LEAH: Will you listen to me!
LAFORGE: You can't boost the warp power that way!
LEAH: You can just increase the speed of the parallel subspace field processor to gain a quicker response time
LAFORGE: I want to give us enough power to strengthen the shields and barrel out of here, not blow us up!
LEAH: This is my design we're talking about. I did all the calculations myself.
LAFORGE: I don't care if you built it with your bare hands out of an old Ferengi cargo ship, it's going to go and we're going with it.
LEAH: I am not used to having people question my judgment.
LAFORGE: And I'm not used to dying. Okay, look. You worked in a lab on a static model. This is a working machine. It's got tens of thousands of light years on it.
LEAH: True.
LAFORGE: Damn right. Listen, we'd never be certain that the circuit paths are sealed.
LEAH: You're good. Very good.
LAFORGE: I know my ship. Inside and out.
LEAH: Well then you must know me inside and out. 'Cos a lot of me is in here.
LAFORGE: You know, I always wished that a Chief Engineer could be present when a ship is being built.
LEAH: That's what's wrong with designers. We never get out in space.
LAFORGE: Well, you're there now.
RIKER (voiceover): Commander La Forge to the Bridge.
LAFORGE: On my way, Commander. Don't go away. I mean, computer, save program.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How many devices do we think we're dealing with, Mister Data?
DATA: To create this radiation field would take several hundred thousand, sir.
RIKER: They've been out there a long time, Data. There must have been some deterioration.
DATA: There is no way to precisely calculate that, Commander, but it is likely.
PICARD: Is there any indication of a weakness in a specific part of the field?
WORF: Nothing substantial, Captain.
PICARD: Of any kind.
WORF: There is a point one percent dip in the strength of the radiation field at two one mark eight by four two mark zero.
PICARD: I want that point one percent.
RIKER: I recommend we fire directional phasers at those coordinates.
LAFORGE: We won't be able to maintain energy reserves. We might even lose a few circuits in the new configuration.
PICARD: How critical will the losses be?
LAFORGE: Not enough to shut down our engines, but if we don't make it I don't know that I can hold the shields.
DATA: There is also the possibility that the phasers will supply the assimilators with what they need most. Energy.
PICARD: You know, I imagine a very similar discussion taking place on our neighbor ship over a thousand years ago. Let's hope our decisions are more successful than theirs were. Mister La Forge, I want you to return to Engineering and continue with your efforts without delay. Mister Worf, prepare the phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on coordinates.
PICARD: Fire.
RIKER: Nothing.
WORF: Radiation levels increasing. Eight percent. Ten percent.
DATA: Energy reserves are dropping rapidly, sir.
PICARD: Damn you.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Wouldn't that increase the output of the subspace processors to gain a quicker response time?
LEAH: The processors can handle the extra input.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but how do we reconfigure?
COMPUTER: Energy reserves reaching critical stage. Standard procedure requires termination of all simulations.
LAFORGE: Computer, override standard procedure.
COMPUTER: Override authority restricted.
LAFORGE: What? Computer!

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): The crystal lattice is breaking down. We'll have to pick up repairs when we can reach a starbase.
RIKER: The optimist of the group.
PICARD: How long do we have shields based on current calculations?
WORF: Under two hours, Captain. And the radiation field has increased by seventeen percent.
PICARD: So what impact will that have on fatal exposure?
CRUSHER: Down to twenty six minutes.
RIKER: If we resist, we die. If we don't resist, we die.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, have we shut down all non-essential energy usage?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. In fact, I need to get some back. I'm running a program on holodeck three.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: For what purpose?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Well, I've gone back to the beginning

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: To the earliest construction entries of the Enterprise. I've created a propulsion design model to assist me.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I believe we're making progress.
PICARD: Computer, reinstate holodeck three program.
COMPUTER: Holodeck three program is reinstated.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your best suggestion in an hour.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Picard out.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Computer, resume holodeck three program.
COMPUTER: Enter when ready.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LEAH: There isn't much time left.
LAFORGE: Somehow we have to generate enough energy to get out of here, but we've got a booby trap that eats energy for breakfast. How do we fool it, block it, shut it down, anything? Okay, we know for every movement the Enterprise makes, there's a counter movement by the energy field. Can we use that to our advantage somehow?
LEAH: Maybe. There must be a time differential between the force and counter force. If we can just make quick, continuing adjustments in the linkups before the counterforce reacts, we might just be able to move this bucket.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yes! Leah, you like Italian food?
LEAH: Like it? Wait till I make you my fungilli.
LAFORGE: Okay. Fusion reactor uplink to navigation processor.
LAFORGE: But then we have to adjust the vector processor and the drive coils. This is impossible.
LAFORGE: Don't do that.
LEAH: I'm sorry. I thought it would feel good.
LAFORGE: I don't want to feel that good right now. What time is it?
LEAH: Coming up on sixteen hundred hours.
LAFORGE: God, what am I supposed to tell the Captain? It's possible and yet it's not possible. Everything we've done says we can't adjust that fast, but if we could, it might work.
LEAH: I could do it.
LAFORGE: Data couldn't even do it. It'll take a hundred, maybe even a thousand adjustments every second. How are you going to do it? It's humanly impossible.
LEAH: I'm not human.
LAFORGE: You mean the computer could do it.
LAFORGE: Captain. Captain, this is a holographic simulation of one of the propulsion experts who designed the Enterprise engines. Leah Brahms. We've, I've been examining the force-counter force response times, trying to see if we could create linkage at maximum power.
PICARD: And?
LAFORGE: There's a chance we could maneuver out of this trap if we turn the ship over to the computer.
PICARD: What kind of chance?
LAFORGE: I don't know yet, but we could program it and try it out on a few simulated runs.
PICARD: And this is the only way?
LAFORGE: I think so, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Any word from La Forge?
PICARD: He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if we agree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the ship over to the computer because it is capable of making quicker adjustments than any human being.
RIKER: Computers have always impressed me with their ability to take orders. I'm not nearly as convinces of their ability to creatively give them.
PICARD: You know, Number One, you missed something not playing with model ships. They were the source of imaginary voyages, each holding a treasure of adventures. Manning the earliest space craft, flying a airplane with only one propeller to keep you in the sky. Can you imagine that? Now the machines are flying us.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure.
LAFORGE: Computer, reduce thrust levels another four percent. Adjust trajectory angle to compensate. Begin simulation again.
LEAH: There you go. We got out.
LAFORGE: Repeat simulation, same levels.
COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure.
LAFORGE: You see? Same variables, only this time the computer didn't quite make it.
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. Fatal exposure in twenty six minutes.
LEAH: It might work, Geordi.
LAFORGE: And it might not. I can't ask Captain Picard to turn the ship over to a computer.
LEAH: It's all we've got.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to La Forge.
LAFORGE: Captain.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Two minutes. Give me just two minutes.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: There is another way, Captain. Two minutes, please.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Two minutes, Mister La Forge. Picard out.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LEAH: Geordi, there's no other way.
LAFORGE: No, no, wait. Listen. Turn it completely around. Literally. Come at it from the opposite direction. God, it's so simple it might even work. Okay, computer, new simulation.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Everything we've tried to do has been based on overpowering the trap. More energy, faster adjustments. But that's exactly what we can't do because that's what we're supposed to do. That's the booby trap. The answer lies in our own computer, the mind. The best piece of engineering we'll ever need.
PICARD: But didn't your researches indicate a thousand adjustments per second would be required?
LAFORGE: Not if we shut everything off. One blast of everything we've got left for a microsecond to beat the inertia and then we shut it all down, except minimal life support and two thrusters. No impulse engines. No computer.
RIKER: One propeller, Captain?
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. Fatal exposure in twelve minutes.
PICARD: Have you analyzed the risk factor?
LAFORGE: The numbers say it's even money. It's no better than turning it over to the computer, but no worse either. But I say forget the numbers. There's no way the computer can compensate for the human factor. The intuition, the experience.
PICARD: And the wish to stay alive. Make it so.
LAFORGE: I've run the simulations, Captain. If you want, I'll take the conn.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister La Forge, but you've done your job. Now I must do mine. I relieve you, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: All hands, this is Commander Riker. We are about to engage impulse engines for a short burst. Inertial dampers are on manual. They may not fully compensate for acceleration. So brace yourselves.
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels.
RIKER: Computer, discontinue radiation warning till further notice. It's all yours, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Firing impulse engines.
DATA: Impulse engines are down.
LAFORGE: Shutting down all systems.
DATA: Velocity is one hundred thirty five meters per second.
WORF: We will be entering the debris field in eight seconds.
DATA: Starboard thruster firing.
RIKER: Coming to heading three four zero mark one zero.
DATA: Thruster is off.
RIKER: Captain, that large mass to port may contain an assimilator.
DATA: Port thrusters firing.
WORF: No reaction from the assimilator.
RIKER: Okay, we're over the first hurdle.
WORF: Sir! Object to port.
DATA: Port thruster is firing. Sir, the gravitational attraction of the various masses has reduced our velocity by eight percent. By my calculations, we no longer have sufficient momentum to clear the debris field.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: The asteroid's gravity is drawing us closer. Velocity is increasing. Velocity still increasing. Now at two hundred and nineteen meters per second. Starboard aft thruster. You have used the asteroid's gravitational pull as a slingshot. Excellent.
RIKER: We're out. We got through.
PICARD: You have the conn, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Initiate full restart. Put all systems back online.
LAFORGE: With pleasure, sir.
PICARD: Number One, make sure that booby trap doesn't bother anyone again.
RIKER: Mister Worf, ready photon torpedoes. Set to detonate on impact with the Promellian vessel.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: You know, I've always thought that technology could solve almost any problem. It enhances the quality of our lives. Lets us travel across the galaxy. Even gave me my vision. But sometimes you have to turn it all off. Even the gypsy violins.
LEAH: Violins?
LAFORGE: Different program.
LEAH: We made a good team.
LAFORGE: Maybe we can do it again some time.
LEAH: I'm with you every day, Geordi. Every time you look at this engine, you're looking at me. Every time you touch it, it's me.
LAFORGE: Computer, exit holodeck. End program.

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Placing beam-out marker. Return transport, fourteen minutes, forty seconds. Is your view any better, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Not too bad, Commander. A lot of charged-particle precipitation, but I can compensate.
WORF: Communicators are dysfunctional.
RIKER: Tricorders?
WORF: Readings only valid within five meters.
RIKER: Good thing we didn't bring Data. We'd be unscrambling his circuits for a week.
LAFORGE: Commander! Picking up something on the positron scan. Over here. Some electrically conductive objects.
RIKER: Recognize those markings, Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir. Romulan.
RIKER: What the hell are they doing in a Federation sector?
LAFORGE: Picking up traces of ultritium residue. An explosive device must've been used to destroy the craft after it crashed.
RIKER: All right, let's spread out. Twenty five meter radius. Our window back closes in twelve minutes.
WORF: Commander!
WORF: Commander Riker!
WORF: Four minutes to beam-up.
RIKER: Where is he? Wait here.

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf! Worf! Commander Riker!

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Geordi! Geordi!

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf! Commander Riker!

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Hold your position, Mister Worf.

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43349.2. An unidentified distress signal has led to the discovery of a crashed Romulan vessel on the surface of Galorndon Core, a Federation planet. We have recovered one survivor, but Lieutenant Commander La Forge did not report back with the away team and is still missing.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Get him to Sickbay.
WORF: Secure Sickbay. Post a guard in visual contact at all times.
CRUSHER: He's not going anywhere, Lieutenant.
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Commander. There's just no way to lock in on anything down there.
RIKER: Keep trying, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: The electrical storm's creating thousands of ghosts.
RIKER: Well beam some of those ghosts back. One of them may be Geordi. Permission to lead another away team, sir.
PICARD: Denied. When we get another window in the storms. The crash site?

[Corridor]
RIKER: The Romulan craft is a total loss. There's nothing there to salvage unless you want to use tweezers.
PICARD: No sign of others?
RIKER: You couldn't see two meters in front of yourself down there.
PICARD: It certainly is the last place one would expect Romulan encroachment. On the other hand, Galorndon Core would provide ideal cover for an opening move of a new offensive.
RIKER: I doubt if they were there for the climate.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We thought it would be like working on Vulcans, but there are subtle differences. Too many of them.
PICARD: Can you treat him?
CRUSHER: He has cell damage to vital areas. He's going to need a transfusion of compatible ribosomes in order to recover. I'm setting up a schedule to test every member of the crew.
PICARD: We can't use the replicator?
CRUSHER: The molecules are too complex.
RIKER: Will he survive?
CRUSHER: I can't answer that yet.
RIKER: Well let me put it another way. Will he survive long enough to tell us what he was doing here?
PICARD: Doctor, it's an important consideration.
CRUSHER: I can bring him around for a few minutes. But there is one serious complication. His brainwaves indicate early neural-pathway degeneration.
RIKER: Head injury?
CRUSHER: There's no obvious cranial trauma. I'm guessing his exposure to the magnetic fields on the surface was slowly breaking down his synaptic connections.
RIKER: Will it affect Geordi the same way?
CRUSHER: He'll be conscious for a minute or two.
RIKER: You are on board the Federation Starship Enterprise. We're treating your injuries. How long were you down on Galorndon Core? Do you understand me?
PATAHK: I will not answer questions.
RIKER: We need to know if there are other survivors on the surface.
PATAHK: I am alone. I will not answer any questions.
RIKER: Do you have a mother ship who should be advised of your condition?
PICARD: The only answer he wants to give is that he was alone.
RIKER: Which suggests that he wasn't.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Something, anything to can cut through the storm. Some way to get a signal through to him.
WESLEY: A neutrino pulse. We could build a portable neutrino source and send it in a probe to the planet surface. It'll act like a beacon.
DATA: A neutrino pulse would send non-charged particles back up through the atmosphere and would be detectable by Geordi's Visor.
WESLEY: He can show us that he's found it by modifying the pulse
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Captain, I have a new transmission on a parallel frequency to the distress call.
PICARD: From the surface?
DATA: No, sir. From inside the Romulan Zone. We should be able to view the transmission.
PICARD: On screen.
TOMALAK (screen): Tomalak to Pi. We have received your distress signal. Respond. If you can hear me, we are entering the Neutral Zone now. We will reach you in six hours.
PICARD: Mister Worf, hail the Romulan vessel.
WORF: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
WORF: The frequency is open, sir.
PICARD: Commander Tomalak, we have intercepted your transmission. You are not to enter Federation space.
TOMALAK (screen): Captain Picard, my apologies. Had I known you were in this sector, I certainly would have advised you before crossing the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Indeed?
TOMALAK (screen): I'm sure you will understand when I explain. One of our ships had a slight navigational error and apparently crashed on Galorndon Core.
PICARD: A slight navigational error? Nearly half a light year past the Neutral Zone?
TOMALAK (screen): I assure you, Captain, no aggression was intended.
PICARD: Commander, we have recovered one of your survivors.
TOMALAK (screen): He is on board your ship?
PICARD: He is being treated for severe injuries.
TOMALAK (screen): And his craft?
PICARD: Destroyed, deliberately, after the crash.
TOMALAK (screen): I'm sure you are prepared to leave at once and rendezvous with me in the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: I have an away team on the planet. We are waiting for a window in the storm to beam them up.
TOMALAK (screen): And then you will return my officer?
PICARD: Are there any other Romulans we should be looking to recover from Galorndon Core?
TOMALAK (screen): No. It was a one-man craft. Captain, we will be at the Federation border of the Neutral Zone in roughly five hours. We will expect you to rendezvous at that time.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There's great hostility behind his smile. He'll stop at nothing to complete his mission.
RIKER: Including the Neutral Zone border.
WORF: Captain, I see no reason to return the Romulan to his ship. He should be held and interrogated.
RIKER: We have every right to detain him, sir.
PICARD: Without evidence of intent, Number One, it will not be a simple matter.
RIKER: It obviously wasn't pilot's error. I think it demands a response from us.
PICARD: But we must measure our response carefully, or history may remember Galorndon Core along with Pearl Harbor and Station Salem One as the stage for a bloody preamble to war.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I want him off all the drugs. They're not doing anything. Doctor Crusher to Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: My patient is not responding

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): To treatment.
PICARD: You haven't found a compatible ribosome donor?
CRUSHER: The lab is still processing the tests. Early results indicate humans have far

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Too many bio-rejection factors. I've also ruled out the Vulcans we've tested.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): I think I'll try a little old-fashioned country medicine. Keep the fever down, try to let the body heal itself.
PICARD: Keep me advised. Picard out.
WESLEY: Captain, the neutrino beacon is operational, and we've placed it aboard a class three probe.
PICARD: Well done, Ensign. Mister Worf, launch the probe.
WORF: Aye, aye, sir.
WORF: Probe has reached the surface, sir.
DATA: The neutrino stream is coming in strongly. Sensors are tracking the probe despite the interference.

[Cave mouth]
LAFORGE: A stationary neutrino source. Wesley Crusher. Thank you, Wesley.
BOCHRA: You are my prisoner.
LAFORGE: Right. Congratulations. Surely a strategic triumph for the Romulan Empire.
BOCHRA: Stay there.
LAFORGE: My shoes are getting full of sand. I just hate that, don't you?
BOCHRA: Name and rank.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge. I don't think I got yours?
BOCHRA: A Romulan ship will arrive shortly. You will accompany me on board.
LAFORGE: I don't think so. You see, we heard your message too and well, the fleet's in, Commodore. Sky's full of Federation ships.
BOCHRA: You're lying.
LAFORGE: I never lie when I've got sand in my shoes, Commodore.
BOCHRA: Get up.
LAFORGE: Seriously, the only one way out of here is for you to put that thing down and soon as there's a window in the storm

[Cave]
LAFORGE: Are you okay?
LAFORGE: You gotta be kidding.
BOCHRA: Sit.
LAFORGE: Welcome to Galorndon Core, where no good deed goes unpunished.

[Crusher's office]
WORF: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, good. Come in. Please sit down. We have finally found a compatible ribosome match for the Romulan. But only one. You.
WORF: That is impossible. I am a Klingon.
CRUSHER: Different species, yes. But many humanoids have comparable cell structures. And you have what this Romulan needs. There's absolutely no risk to you. You did understand that was the purpose of all the testing?
WORF: I have no objection to tests.
CRUSHER: You have an objection to being a donor?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, I understand your feelings about the Romulans, but this is not the time or place.
WORF: If you had seen them kill your parents, you would understand, Doctor, it is always the time and place for those feelings.
CRUSHER: This Romulan didn't murder your parents. And you are the only one who can save his life.
WORF: Then he will die.

[Cave]
LAFORGE: I sure wish you'd put that away.
BOCHRA: You're afraid of dying.
LAFORGE: You bet I am. Who isn't?
BOCHRA: I'm not.
LAFORGE: Right.
BOCHRA: To die in the service of my people.
LAFORGE: Ah, the Romulan path to glory.
BOCHRA: You can be sarcastic now, but in a few millennia, when humans are extinct and the Romulan Empire spans the galaxy.
LAFORGE: You really believe that stuff, don't you, Commodore?
BOCHRA: You may address me as Centurion Bochra.
LAFORGE: Bochra? Good, solid Romulan name. What's the matter?
BOCHRA: Nothing.
LAFORGE: Wrong. Your heart rate just shot way up. It translates a wide range of radiation into neural impulses. Allows me to see.
BOCHRA: Without it, you're blind?
LAFORGE: Yes.
BOCHRA: How did this happen?
LAFORGE: I was born that way.
BOCHRA: And your parents let you live?
LAFORGE: What kind of question is that? Of course they let me live.
BOCHRA: No wonder your race is weak. You waste time and resources on defective children.
LAFORGE: Whoa. I must be having some sort of polarity shift. The diagnostic insists everything's fine. Hey, hey, your body temperature's gone up another full point.
BOCHRA: What are you saying?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It must be this place, all that electromagnetic soup, it's wreaking havoc on our nervous systems. Your metabolism's messed up, so's my interface with the Visor. We've got to get out of here while we still can.
BOCHRA: Sit down.
LAFORGE: Bochra
BOCHRA: Sit down!

[Bridge]
RIKER: What is that?
WESLEY: It's just a background fluctuation, Commander. He hasn't found it yet.
RIKER: Then he must be hurt or dead. When does our next window open up, Mister Data?
DATA: There is no indication, Commander. I have no way to predict.
WORF: Incoming Romulan transmission, Captain.
RIKER: They're early.
DATA: The Romulan warbird should still be twenty nine minutes away from the edge of the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Close enough, however, to see we're not there. On screen.
TOMALAK (screen): Picard, I'm approaching the Federation border and the Enterprise is not to be found. Why?
PICARD: My away team is unable to leave the surface because of the storms.
TOMALAK (screen): And my officer?
PICARD: He is alive.
TOMALAK (screen): His life remains in jeopardy?
PICARD: Yes.
TOMALAK (screen): And yet you will still not permit me to cross into your precious Federation space to retrieve him?
PICARD: If the point hasn't been made clearly, Commander, let me make it again. Romulan warships do not enter Federation space unless they are prepared to do battle.
TOMALAK (screen): But a mission of mercy?
PICARD: A mission to recover one of your officers who has been caught on a Federation planet for reasons as yet unknown.
TOMALAK (screen): I have already explained.
PICARD: And I have rejected your explanation.
TOMALAK (screen): Territories! You would measure territories against a man's life?
PICARD: Commander, I am singularly impressed by your concern for a life. Do not risk any more lives by leaving the Neutral Zone. Picard out.

[Cave]
LAFORGE: Bochra. Bochra, you're in bad shape and my vision's getting worse. Now there's a beacon out there that'll get us back to my ship, but not if I can't find it.
BOCHRA: I cannot surrender to the Federation.
LAFORGE: Then stay here and die.
BOCHRA: If the situation were reversed would you not die to avoid capture?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I might, if I thought it was necessary. If the stakes were high enough. But they'd have to be pretty damn high. I guess I'd make a pretty lousy Romulan, huh?
BOCHRA: I no more wish to die than you do.
LAFORGE: Bochra, there are times when it is necessary to die for one's ideals. Do you believe this is one of those times?
LAFORGE: Come on. Let's go find that beacon. Whoa!
BOCHRA: What is it?
LAFORGE: Everything's gone blank. I'm blind.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come. Worf.
WORF: You are busy. Forgive my intrusion.
RIKER: For what it's worth, I understand your bitterness.
WORF: With respect, sir, you cannot. I am asked to give up the very lifeblood of my mother and my father to those who murdered them.
RIKER: Must you blame all Romulans for that?
WORF: Yes.
RIKER: Forever? What if some day the Federation made peace with the Romulans.
WORF: Impossible.
RIKER: That's what your people said a few years ago about humans. Think how many died on both sides in that war. Would you and I be here now like this if we hadn't been able to let go of the anger and the blame? Where does it end, Worf? If that Romulan dies, does his family carry the bitterness on another generation?
WORF: Then you believe I should?
RIKER: What I believe doesn't matter.
WORF: My Starfleet training tells me one thing, but everything I am tells me another.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay.
WORF: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, his life is coming to an end. I thought it important for you to see him again. It's not too late to change your mind.
PATAHK: Come close to me, Klingon. Let me die with my hands at your throat.
WORF: There is a substance within my cells which you need to survive.
PATAHK: Then you've come to hear me beg for my life?
WORF: No.
PATAHK: I would rather die than pollute my body with Klingon filth!

[Cave]
BOCHRA: I've lost almost all feeling in my legs.
LAFORGE: My synapses must be turning to jelly. The Visor's fine. I just can't see a thing.
BOCHRA: How do we locate the beacon?
LAFORGE: We don't.
BOCHRA: Do all humans give up so easily?
LAFORGE: Bochra, we're lost, unless you've got something that can smell neutrinos.
BOCHRA: We have the sensor device you are carrying.
LAFORGE: Tricorder? It's not set up to detect neutrinos.
BOCHRA: Your eye device does. Connect them.
LAFORGE: That's crazy. They don't speak the same language. Besides, I'd never be able to get an accurate sampling. Wait a second. Wait, I wouldn't need an accurate sampling, just need a pointer. A neutrino Geiger counter. No, it's still not possible.
BOCHRA: You cannot do it?
LAFORGE: Under normal circumstances, maybe. Here, no way.
BOCHRA: Why?
LAFORGE: Because I can't see. Adapting the neural output pods of the Visor is tricky work. It can't be done by touch.
BOCHRA: Then I will be your eyes.

[Bridge]
DATA: The storm is beginning to subside, Captain. We should have a window in less than an hour.
RIKER: There's still no indication that he's found the beacon, sir.
PICARD: Assemble an away team.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
WORF: Captain, the Romulan warship has crossed the Neutral Zone border. It is in Federation space and heading toward us.
PICARD: Belay that order, Number One. Red alert.

[Cave]
LAFORGE: Make sure the scanner select limiter matches the Visor output range.
BOCHRA: Not so fast.
LAFORGE: Now, place the neural output pods in contact with the tricorder scanner heads.
BOCHRA: Ready.
LAFORGE: Let her rip.
BOCHRA: Bearing three five zero.
LAFORGE: We did it! The first Federation-Romulan co-venture.
BOCHRA: The storm may be breaking.
LAFORGE: With any luck, there'll be an electromagnetic window opening up and we can get out of here.
BOCHRA: At which point, I'll be your prisoner.
LAFORGE: Can you walk?
BOCHRA: I don't know.
LAFORGE: Let's find out. Come on. Okay, let's go.
BOCHRA: Straight ahead.
LAFORGE: Okay.
BOCHRA: To the right.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WORF: You wished to see me, Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant. I assume you know what it's about.
WORF: Yes.
PICARD: The Romulan ship will reach us within the hour. If our patient dies it may be just the excuse the Romulan commander needs to start an incident. The death of a Romulan officer at the hands of the Federation. Think of it.
WORF: I have, Captain.
PICARD: So, there is no question that the Romulan officer is more valuable to us alive than dead.
WORF: I understand.
PICARD: Lieutenant, sometimes the moral obligations of command are less than clear. I have to weigh the good of the many against the needs of the individual, and try to balance them as realistically as possible. God knows, I don't always succeed.
WORF: I have not had cause to complain, Captain.
PICARD: Oh, Lieutenant, you wouldn't complain even if you had cause.
WORF: If you order me to agree to the transfusion, I will obey, of course.
PICARD: I don't want to order you. But I ask you. I beg you to volunteer.
WORF: I cannot.
PICARD: Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: That will be all.
PICARD: Picard to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Go ahead.
PICARD: Do not continue to enlist the cooperation of Lieutenant Worf.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I won't have to, Captain. The Romulan has died.

[Neutrino beacon]
BOCHRA: We've found it!
LAFORGE: Now we have to alter its signal pattern so the Enterprise knows we've found it.
BOCHRA: Will that be difficult?
LAFORGE: No, not with your help.

[Bridge]
DATA: Scanners are showing a window, Captain.
PICARD: Expected duration?
DATA: Nine minutes, forty seconds, sir.
WESLEY: No change in the neutrino beacon signal, sir.
WORF: Romulan ship approaching. Bearing three fifty four mark two eight seven.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Entering phaser range. We are being hailed, sir.
PICARD: On viewer.
TOMALAK (screen): You have one chance to escape destruction, Picard. Return my officer at once.
PICARD: Commander, you have entered Federation space despite my warning.
TOMALAK (screen): You forced the situation. I will not leave without him.
PICARD: He's dead.
TOMALAK (screen): Then he is but the first to fall, Picard.
WORF: The Romulan ship is routing power to its forward disruptor array.
PICARD: All shields to maximum.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Lock phasers on target.
WORF: Phasers locked and ready.
WESLEY: Captain, the signal pattern from the neutrino beacon is modulating.
TROI: It's Geordi.
RIKER: We can't transport him with the shields up.
WORF: If we lower our shields, the Romulan will strike.
DATA: The electromagnetic window on the planet is closing, sir. Three minutes remain.
PICARD: Transporter room, lock onto the neutrino beam and stand by.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Standing by, Captain.
DATA: The window is allowing intermittent sensor readings. There are still numerous ghost images, but I believe we are picking up two life forms near the beacon.
RIKER: Another Romulan?
DATA: I cannot say. The electromagnetic interference prevents an accurate reading.
PICARD: But it's a likely hypothesis, Number One. If Commander La Forge has located a second survivor. Lieutenant, hail the Romulan vessel.
WORF: Aye, sir. They're ignoring our hail, sir.
PICARD: Repeat the hail all channels. You see, they have no way of knowing how accurate our sensors are. Put on your best poker face, Number One. Open a frequency. Commander Tomalak. It would appear our away team has rescued a second man from your one man ship. We're preparing to beam them to the Enterprise. After which, of course, we will return the survivor to you.
WORF: No acknowledgement, sir.
PICARD: Commander, both our ships are ready to fight. We have two extremely powerful and destructive arsenals at our command. Our next actions will have serious repercussions. We have good reason to mistrust one another, but we have better reasons to set our differences aside. Now, of course, the question is, who will take the initiative? Who will make the first gesture of trust? The answer is, I will. I must lower our shields to beam these men up from the planet surface. Once the shields are down, you will of course have the opportunity to fire on us. If you do, you will destroy not only the Enterprise and its crew, but the cease-fire that the Romulans and the Federation now enjoy. Lieutenant, lower the shields. Leave the hailing frequency open.
WORF: Yes, sir. Shields down.
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, transport Mister La Forge and the Romulan directly to the Bridge.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir. Energizing.
WORF: Security team to the Bridge.
PICARD: Belay that order, Lieutenant. Shields up. No one is going to harm you.
LAFORGE: You have my word on that.
PICARD: Well, Commander?
TOMALAK (screen): If he has been in any way mistreated.
BOCHRA: I have given them no information, Commander, but I have not been mistreated. In fact, this human saved my life.
PICARD: Tomalak, how is it possible you didn't know of the second Romulan on Galorndon Core?
TOMALAK (screen): A simple misunderstanding, Captain Picard. I was obviously misinformed as to the size of the craft. I assure you I intended no deception.
PICARD: Of course not.
TOMALAK (screen): You doubt my good faith?
PICARD: Let's just say my faith would be strengthened by a gesture from you, such as powering down your disruptors.
WORF: Disruptors powering down.
PICARD: Thank you. Cancel Red alert, Lieutenant. Commander, we shall return your officer and escort your ship to the Neutral Zone.
TOMALAK (screen): That is acceptable.
PICARD: Good to have you back, Commander.
LAFORGE: Good to be back, sir. Actually, I have Centurion Bochra to thank for it.
PICARD: Indeed. Commander La Forge and Lieutenant Worf, escort our guest to transporter room one.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Come on.
RIKER: Close call.
PICARD: Too close, Number One. Brinksmanship is a dangerous game.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Computer, dispatches.
COMPUTER: A research enquiry from the Manitoba Journal of Interplanetary Psychology and three communiqués from your mother.
TROI: Transfer the letters from my mother to the viewscreen. And, computer, I would like a real chocolate sundae.
COMPUTER: Define real in context, please.
TROI: Real. Not one of your perfectly synthesized, ingeniously enhanced imitations. I would like real chocolate ice cream, real whipped cream
COMPUTER: This unit is programmed to provide sources of acceptable nutritional value. Your request does not fall within current guidelines. Please indicate whether you wish to override the specified program?
TROI: Listen
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Now what? Yes, Captain?

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: The pleasure of your company is requested, Counselor. We're having a little impromptu reception for the arriving delegates.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Captain, I'm not really dressed for a reception.
PICARD (voiceover): Oh, Counselor

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Just throw on any old thing. We're about to get our first look at the wormhole.
TROI (voiceover): Of course, Captain. I'm on my way.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: God forbid I should miss my first look at the wormhole.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: May I escort you, Miss Troi?
TROI: Just tell me there's some chocolate here.
PICARD: Ah, Counselor Troi. Will you allow me to do the introductions? This is Premier Bhavani of Barzan. Counselor Deanna Troi.
TROI: Your discovery has produced a great deal of excitement, Premier.
BHAVANI: Hopefully, it will also produce a new era of prosperity for my people.
MENDOZA: We'll see to that.
PICARD: You know Mister Mendoza, the Federation negotiator.
MENDOZA: A pleasure to see you again, Counselor Troi.
PICARD: This is a worthy Federation competitors in the bidding, Leyor of the Caldonians.
LEYOR: Madame.
RAL: And I'm Devinoni Ral.
TROI: Ship's Counselor Deanna Troi.
MENDOZA: My good friend, Ral, is the best hired gun in the business.
TROI: Hired gun?
RAL: My good friend Mendoza means that I'm a negotiator who serves a variety of clients. On this particular occasion I represent the Chrysalians.
BHAVANI: I believe it's almost time, isn't it Captain?
PICARD: Indeed. It will be visible directly ahead.
MENDOZA: Is it always on time, Bhavani?
BHAVANI: Always. We see it every two hundred and thirty three minutes. Our scientists say it's due to radiation buildup in the accretion disk. The visible burst is very brief.
BHAVANI: There it is, ladies and gentlemen, the first and only stable wormhole known to exist. It's yours, for the right price.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43385.6. We are orbiting Barzan Two, which is entertaining bids for control of what appears to be a stable wormhole, which could provide a permanent shortcut to the distant Gamma Quadrant.

[Observation lounge]
BHAVANI: And as you all know, the environment on my planet is completely inhospitable to most other life forms. So I'd like to express my appreciation to you, Captain Picard, for hosting these negotiations. The Barzan has been a society dependent on others for generations. We want that to end. The appearance of this stable wormhole in our space provides us with our first true natural resource. We have neither the experience nor the technology to exploit it. But you do.
RIKER: Excuse me. There's a delegation of Ferengi who wishes to be beamed aboard, sir.
PICARD: Were you expecting the Ferengi, Premier?
BHAVANI: No, but I do not wish to create ill will, Captain. If they are interested in bidding, I have no objection.
PICARD: Chief O'Brien, this is Captain Picard. Will you beam the Ferengi directly to the Observation lounge?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
GOSS: On behalf of all Ferengi, I protest. Why were we not invited to these negotiations?
BHAVANI: My apologies. We did not anticipate your interest. You're welcome to join us.
GOSS: My name is DaiMon Goss. These are my consuls, Kol and Doctor Arridor. We'll need chairs.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. I'm serving as host for these proceedings.
GOSS: Good, then see to it that we get chairs.
PICARD: Let me explain.
GOSS: Fine, fine, just have your Klingon servant get us some chairs.
WORF: I am in charge of Security.
GOSS: Then who gets the chairs?
PICARD: DaiMon, due to the delicate nature of these negotiations, all parties have agreed that one representative would suffice. Now I will be happy to provide your consuls with accommodations and you may have my chair.
GOSS: Very well.
PICARD: Premier.
GOSS: Kol, the bag.
RIKER: Gentlemen, this way.
GOSS: We can handle all the pleasantries later. Now, let's get down to business.
GOSS: I'll match anyone's best offer, and add the gold on top of it.

[Troi's office]
COMPUTER: Devinoni Ral, human. Age forty one. Born Brussels, European Alliance. Relocated at age nineteen to Hurkos Three.
TROI: Come in.
RAL: Should I call for an appointment ?
TROI: No, I was just looking over some personnel files.
RAL: Well, that's too bad. I thought you might be thinking about me.
TROI: I thought you'd be deep in negotiations by now.
RAL: In recess. I never play the opening rounds, anyway. Inconsequential. Besides there are much better things to negotiate on this ship. Like dinner tonight?
TROI: What about your traveling companion?
RAL: My traveling companion is traveling. I sent her home.
TROI: Why?
RAL: You know why.
TROI: Weren't you getting along?
RAL: Don't do that.
TROI: What?
RAL: Don't do Counselor Troi.
TROI: Was I?
RAL: Yes, you were. When you leave this office, who are you? Oh. So that's how it goes. You never do. You never do leave the office.
TROI: What
RAL: Shush.
RAL: Dinner at eight?

[Ready room]
DATA: The data from the Barzan's probe of the wormhole are quite impressive, Captain. The wormhole delivered the probe beyond the Denkiri Arm, in the Gamma Quadrant.
PICARD: It would take nearly a century at warp nine to cover that distance.
DATA: The same distance could be achieved in a matter of seconds through the wormhole.
RIKER: Imagine the Ferengi collecting tolls if we lose to them.
MENDOZA: I don't think the Ferengi are the greatest threat at the table. With all of DaiMon Goss' bluster, they don't have the resources the Barzans need.
RIKER: I think that Devinoni is the one that we need to watch out for.
MENDOZA: An accurate observation. How did you recognize that?
RIKER: He was the most one in the group.
MENDOZA: You must play poker, Commander.
RIKER: Poker? Is that a game of some sort?
PICARD: Commander Riker conducts masterclasses in poker.
MENDOZA: Our skills are not dissimilar, Commander.
PICARD: Mister Mendoza, if this lives up to its billing, it will be a discovery of extraordinary value. But it is a big if.
RIKER: A wormholes is there one moment, and then gone the next. A stable wormhole is unheard of.
MENDOZA: Are you saying this may not be what it seems?
DATA: The Barzans do not have manned space travel, so they had to resort to an automated probe. Its findings are limited. It cannot be determined from these charts how stable the wormhole really is, or how long it will remain intact.
PICARD: The Federation could wind up buying a proverbial lemon.
DATA: Proverbial lemon?
PICARD: Later, Data.
MENDOZA: And of course that means, once the contract is negotiated and closed, we would be obliged to fulfill the terms.
RIKER: We think we should take a look for ourselves.
MENDOZA: I don't think Bhavani could object to that.
RIKER: Geordi has continuous visual contact with the wormhole, Captain. I think he's the logical choice.
DATA: I would also like to volunteer, sir.
PICARD: Nobody's going in there until we have done a full sensor analysis. I want to do everything possible to determine that it's safe, and when I am satisfied, then you, Data, and Commander La Forge will enter the wormhole tomorrow.

[Guest quarters]
ARRIDOR: Just a moment of discomfort for a good cause, DaiMon. You understand this will not be lethal.
GOSS: Doctor, you surprise me. I have no wish to kill anyone. A short term crippling will suffice.
ARRIDOR: Then, this will be just fine.
ARRIDOR: A distillation of your own blood pyrocytes. Harmless to you. Undetectable by the ship's bio-filters, but when absorbed through your victim's skin, it will provoke an extreme allergic reaction.
GOSS: I'd say it is time to extend the hand of the Ferengi to the representative of the Federation.

[Troi's quarters]
RAL: Much better.
TROI: Thank you. Come in for a drink?
RAL: Ah, Federation decor.
TROI: Not your style?
RAL: Well, conformity is not my style.
TROI: What would you like?
RAL: I'd even like another. There she is again, Counselor Troi.
TROI: I'm not. Computer, champagne.
RAL: For two. Am I moving too fast for you?
TROI: No, I'm moving too fast for me.
RAL: I like that better.
TROI: I haven't been able to stop thinking about you all day.
RAL: You must have had a nice day.
TROI: Anticipation is fun. We'll be late for dinner.
RAL: Very late.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Mister Mendoza.
MENDOZA: I seem to be a bit warm.
CRUSHER: I need some help here

[Ready room]
GOSS: You attempt to gain every unfair advantage, Picard.
PICARD: Premier Bhavani has no objection.
GOSS: Well, I most certainly do. First, you conveniently arrange to play host, then you plan to send your own manned probe into the wormhole. The Federation thinks it can do anything it wants to. Well, I will not tolerate it!
PICARD: I will gladly share the results of our exploration with all the delegates.
GOSS: And you expect us to believe what you report?
RIKER: Then send in your own probe, Goss.
GOSS: That's exactly what I intend to do. And I should strongly suggest you stay out of our way.
PICARD: Tell Data and La Forge to do themselves a favor, and stay out of their way.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain Picard, please come to Sickbay.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Whatever he's got is obviously not life threatening. It's some kind of system-wide histaminic reaction. He certainly can't go back to negotiations for several days.
PICARD: Will you keep me informed?

[Corridor]
PICARD: The Federation's top negotiator taken out by a mysterious ailment. Suspicions?
RIKER: With the Ferengi around? Always.
PICARD: You'll have to fill in, Number One.
RIKER: Me?
PICARD: Well, I'm the designated host. It would be a most awkward transition. You're the next likely choice. And Mister Mendoza will certainly agree. He's quite impressed by your natural instincts.
RIKER: Excuse me, sir, but those weren't natural instincts. Those were poker instincts. A card game doesn't exactly prepare me for this.
PICARD: Yes, the stakes are higher. But then, isn't that when the game gets interesting, Commander?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: The wormhole will reappear in thirty seconds, sir.
WORF: The Ferengi pod is moving into position.
PICARD: Shuttle nine, stand by.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: Ferengi pod, this is Lieutenant Commander La Forge in the Enterprise shuttle.
ARRIDOR (voiceover): This is Doctor Arridor, go ahead.
LAFORGE: Would you care to take the point, Doctor?

[Ferengi pod]
ARRIDOR: We will gladly yield that honor to you, Lieutenant Commander.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: You know, if this doesn't work, the thought of spending the rest of my life in here is none too appealing.
DATA: There is a bright side, Geordi. You will have me to talk to.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is visible, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed when ready.
DATA (voiceover): and intense energy fields which appear to be stabil
WESLEY: They've traveled beyond our communication capabilities, sir

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: A complete analysis of our bid is available on the ship's computer for your consideration.
RAL: Commander, I realize what a difficult position this must be for you. If you don't understand something, I hope you won't be too embarrassed to ask me.
RIKER: I think I have an idea what the rules are.
RAL: Well, that's what makes it so interesting. The rules of the game change to fit the moment.
RIKER: Not unlike commanding a starship, Mister Ral.
RAL: Well, Mister Riker's placed a great deal of emphasis on defense, a subject he obviously knows well, having served Starfleet in a number of conflicts. Now, the Chrysalians, we're enemies to no one, and we choose to remain that way. Neutral.
RIKER: Neutral, and uninvolved, sir, in virtually all interstellar matters of consequence.
RAL: No one would claim that the Chrysalians are as powerful as the mighty Federation, but we have resources, and technology, and scientists too. But we also have had peace for ten generations.

[Troi's quarters]
RAL: You know, I was thinking.
TROI: Mmm?
RAL: Maybe I could stretch out these negotiations for a few days. Would you like that?
TROI: Mmm-hmmm. Devinoni Ral. Who are you?
RAL: Well, what do your Betazoid senses tell you about me?
TROI: Not much. My human physical response must be blocking them out.
RAL: Good.
TROI: It never happened to me before.
RAL: I rather like it that I'm more difficult to read than your other men.
TROI: There aren't any others. Currently.
RAL: What about Commander Riker?
TROI: Who have you been talking to?
RAL: No one. No one. I just sensed something when I saw the two of you together.
TROI: Will Riker and I are good friends.
RAL: Ah ha.
TROI: It was once a little more than that.
RAL: Ah.
TROI: How come we're talking about me instead of you?
RAL: Don't you have enough people talk about their lives to you? Who counsels the Counselor?
TROI: Oh no, I want to know about you.
RAL: I'm what you see right now. Just me, wanting to run away with you, but knowing you'd never leave this damned ship.
TROI: When I first saw you, I felt as if I'd been waiting for you. I'm trying to understand why or how that's possible.
RAL: Does it matter? Well, it will when I tell you. But you must promise never to tell anyone else.
TROI: What?
RAL: I am part Betazoid too. My mother was one half, I am one quarter.
TROI: You're empathic?
RAL: The only one of five children. I must admit I was never as comfortable sensing emotions as you seem to be.
TROI: That's why you left Earth.
RAL: Yes. I learned to live with it, use it, as you have. But still, it isolates us, doesn't it? And I thought it would always would, so I tucked my heart away. I didn't need it, I didn't want it. At the negotiating table, it can be fatal to have a heart. But I never realized how much I needed mine until I looked at you.

[Shuttlecraft]
LAFORGE: I'm picking up an increase in accretion matter filtering in from the terminus.
DATA: Monitors are functioning normally again.
LAFORGE: Ferengi pod, everybody in one piece over there?

[Ferengi pod]
ARRIDOR: Our condition is no concern of yours, Enterprise shuttle. We are competitors in this venture, not partners.

[Shuttlepod]
ARRIDOR (voiceover): Ferengi pod, out.
LAFORGE: Yeah, happy landings to you, too.
DATA: Curious. We are not where we are supposed to be.
LAFORGE: What do you mean? We're on the other side of the wormhole, aren't we ?
DATA: According to the Barzan probe, we should be in the Gamma Quadrant but these readings clearly indicate we are nearly two hundred light years away in sector three five five six of the Delta Quadrant.
LAFORGE: Maybe the Barzan readings were wrong.
DATA: Perhaps the readings were correct. Their probe could have exited the wormhole at a completely different location.
LAFORGE: Data, my Visor's picking up subatomic fluctuations. Meson and lepton activity is definitely increasing.
DATA: Gravitational acceleration is also increasing.
LAFORGE: Something very strange is happening to this wormhole.

[Exercise room]
TROI: Sorry.
CRUSHER: You're unusually limber this morning.
TROI: I'll say. Devinoni Ral. It's ridiculous, and wonderful. I feel completely out of control. Happy. Terrified. But there's nothing rational about this.
CRUSHER: Who needs rational when your toes curl up?
TROI: I'm afraid I'm going to lose myself. I can't get enough of him. Is it possible to fall in love in one day?
CRUSHER: I did.
TROI: It was like this for you and Jack?
CRUSHER: No, it was another fellow. I fell in love in a day, it lasted a week. But what a week. Then I met Jack. It took months to figure it out with him.
TROI: Well then, maybe I should slow down. Catch my breath. Not let this get out of control.
TROI: No.

[Ten Forward]
RAL: To be honest, I was surprised to see the Caldonians here at all, Leyor.
LEYOR: You must think Caldonia very insular, Mister Ral.
RAL: Oh, no, no, not at all. Not at all. On the contrary, I've respected your world's commitment to pure research. It's just that, well.
LEYOR: Go on, please.
RAL: Well, scholars don't always enjoy administrative demands. And certainly we've seen here that the administration of the wormhole is
LEYOR: Yes, I must admit, I have begun to feel some trepidation about that.
RAL: Yes. Yes, I'm sure you have, Leyor. I'm sure we all have. Do you realize that in the next century, the number of ships that will pass

[Observation lounge]
BHAVANI: Gentlemen, this open session is called by request of the Caldonian delegation.
LEYOR: Madame Bhavani, Caldonia withdraws from these proceedings.
BHAVANI: For what reasons, Leyor?
LEYOR: It has been made very clear that the maintenance and administrative requirements are beyond our abilities.
RIKER: Leyor, the Federation would like to negotiate a trade agreement in which we could acquire your planet's rich deposits of trillium 323 which we would add to our bid, Premier Bhavani.
LEYOR: My apologies. We have already reached an agreement with the Chrysalians.
RIKER: Mister Ral? You either had very good instincts, or foreknowledge of the Caldonian withdrawal.
RAL: Some people just don't wish to transact business with the Federation, Commander. The Chrysalians hereby add the Caldonian trillium 323 to its bid, Premier.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: I'm telling you, it's changing.

[Ferengi pod]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I can see it with my Visor.
ARRIDOR: I have no intention of leaving yet. We have not finished taking our readings.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Listen, Doctor.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: Your readings must be telling you the same things we're getting. This is not the Gamma Quadrant.

[Ferengi pod]
ARRIDOR: I will not confirm your speculations.

[Shuttlepod]
DATA: This is not a speculation, Doctor. We are not where the Barzans said we should be, which would indicate

[Ferengi pod]
DATA (voiceover): This side of the wormhole is not stable.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: There are meson and lepton fluctuations. Local gravitational fields are increasing exponentially. Everything says we'd better get the hell out of here.

[Ferengi pod]
ARRIDOR: It will be visible again in forty seconds. We will make our own judgments then.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: I can see it now and I'm telling you that you don't have time to wait. Not even forty seconds.
ARRIDOR (voiceover): Ferengi pod out.
LAFORGE: Damn it, Arridor, we're seventy thousand light years away from our ships. Come on, now. Follow us in. We'll lead you.
LAFORGE: Idiots. It's getting worse. I'm taking us in, Data. With or without them.
DATA: Thrusters at half power. Three quarters.
LAFORGE: Entering outer event horizon.

[Ferengi pod]
ARRIDOR: They panic quickly under pressure. There, precisely as scheduled. Right where I expected it to be.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Everyone was talking today about the way you absorbed the Caldonian bid.
RAL: Well, the opening was there. I took it
TROI: Commander Riker didn't know how you managed it.
RAL: Let me tell you something about Commander Riker. He's good. He's the most dangerous man in the room to me.
TROI: But he doesn't have an edge. Your edge.
RAL: Our edge. You make it sound unethical.
TROI: Isn't it?
RAL: Deanna, it's just business.
TROI: Why haven't you told anyone you're an empath?
RAL: Because I find it makes people uncomfortable.
TROI: I think you don't tell them so you can gain an advantage.
RAL: Well, I gained an advantage by using it with you. You didn't seem to mind that. Look, Deanna, the point of negotiating is to take advantage. I don't know what the other side is offering, and they don't know what I'm offering. So we dance around each other until somebody wins. I never cry foul when I lose.
TROI: But you're reading their emotional states, their inner selves, and then using that to manipulate them.
RAL: Well, people have been doing that for thousands of years, just by listening carefully, by watching body language. I just happen to be better at it. You do it.
TROI: I do it to help my crew, not outmaneuver them. And I don't hide that I'm an empath.
RAL: Oh, so you announce it to every alien culture you encounter? Or do you use it to give your side an advantage. Do you tell the Romulan that's about to attack that you sense that he may be bluffing? Or do you just tell it to your Captain?
TROI: That's different. That's a matter of protection.
RAL: Yes, protection. Your protection, your Captain, your crew, your edge. Yes. Now it's a matter of life and death when you take the advantage. Me, I deal in property. Exchanges. No body gets hurt. So you tell me, which one of us would you say has more of a problem with ethics? Excuse me.

[Ten Forward]
RAL: May I join you, Commander?
RIKER: Bought out the Ferengi yet, Ral?
RAL: Think I should give it a try?
RIKER: No, but I think that you will. One way or another, it's going to come down to you and me.
RAL: You know, you're very good at this. Very good. Much better than you realize.
RIKER: I hope I'm better than you realize.
RAL: The last mile of the marathon is always the toughest. That's when the winners are willing to take the big risks. Are you willing to do that?
RIKER: We'll see, won't we?
RAL: Well, let's see now. I'm prepared to reach a firm agreement with Bhavani before we learn the outcome of your probe's expedition. Are you? Well, well, well. That would not be looked upon favorably by the Federation, I'd imagine. See, you have to be willing to take that last step alone or it just isn't worth playing.
RIKER: Your point of view, not mine.
RAL: Oh, I see that, Commander, I see that. Otherwise you wouldn't be second in command of this starship. You know, I feel responsible for you in a way. Related. Deanna. We both love Deanna. Oh, in different ways, of course.
RIKER: I will remove the burden of that responsibility right now. My relationship with Deanna stands very well on its own without any help from you.
RAL: Of course it does. Of course it does. It's just that, well, she's an extraordinary woman. Brilliant. Lovely. Very passionate. And she could have been yours, Will, but you just didn't do enough to keep her. And now, well, I'm here, and I'm going to take her too.
RIKER: That's the first bad play I've seen you make. If you can bring happiness into Deanna's life, nothing would please me more. You know, you're really not such a bad sort, Ral, except you don't have any values, beyond the value of today's bid, that is. Deanna is just the woman to bring some meaning to your sorry existence, if you're smart enough to take it. I doubt that you are. To the last mile.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Ferengi vessel is moving out of orbit. Impulse power They are approaching the entry to the wormhole, sir.
PICARD: Computer, is the Ferengi Goss still on board the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: DaiMon Goss departed the Enterprise at fourteen hundred hours.
WORF: They are powering forward missile launchers, sir.
PICARD: Yellow alert. Hail the Ferengi.
PICARD: Request an explanation of your actions, DaiMon Goss.
GOSS (screen): I've learned from informed sources that the Federation has manipulated these negotiations from the very beginning, and has already signed a secret agreement with the Barzans.
PICARD: That is not true.
GOSS (screen): The Ferengi offer was never seriously considered.
PICARD: Premier Bhavani welcomed you to these proceedings, despite my better judgment.
GOSS (screen): We will be ignored no longer.
WORF: They've fired a missile directly at the opening, sir.
PICARD: Destroy it.
WORF: On screen. Firing phasers.

[Observation lounge]
BHAVANI: Your offers both have merit, gentlemen. if I could find a deciding factor
RIKER: Riker to Picard. What's happening, Captain?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Goss has fired a missile at the wormhole.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD (voiceover): I need you on the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Excuse me.
RAL: Excuse me for saying so under the circumstances, Premier, but this fight is really between the Federation and the Ferengi. Now it seems unconscionable that your wormhole is being used as a pawn in their power struggle.

[Bridge]
PICARD: You must know we will not allow you to do this.
GOSS (screen): If the Ferengi cannot have the wormhole, no one will.
PICARD: A missile will have no destructive effect on a wormhole, but if it should explode near the shuttlecraft they will be destroyed.
GOSS (screen): Casualties of war, Commander. My men are prepared to die. Are yours?
TROI: Captain, he's lying. I'm almost sure of it. He doesn't mean what he says.
RIKER: Why? What is he doing it for then?
BHAVANI: Permission to enter the Bridge, Captain.
PICARD: Premier, with all due respect
RAL: Captain, I believe I am in a better position to settle this with DaiMon Goss than you are. May I address him?
PICARD: Premier.
RAL: DaiMon Goss, this is Devinoni Ral.
GOSS (screen): I have nothing to say to you, Ral.
RAL: Well then, just listen. The planet Barzan has reached an agreement with the Chrysalians for long term control of the wormhole. Now on behalf of the Chrysalians, I am prepared to offer the Ferengi free access to the wormhole in perpetuity.
GOSS (screen): I have your word on this?
RAL: Yes, my word, sir, in exchange for Ferengi convoy privileges to be negotiated in good faith.
GOSS (screen): This is an acceptable offer.
WORF: Ferengi vessel has shut down its forward missile launcher.
PICARD: Stand down red alert.
BHAVANI: Commander Riker. I'm sorry you had to learn about my decision this way. You represented the Federation well, but I have come to believe that the Chrysalians' tradition of peace is more desirable to my planet.
TROI: Excuse me, Premier. There's something you should know. I'm sorry, was there something you wanted to say?
RAL: No, not at all.
TROI: I sensed you suddenly felt uncomfortable.
RAL: Well, after all, it was a very tense situation.
TROI: But that's what's so odd. It wasn't tense at all. In fact, I sensed no tension from you or Goss.
GOSS (screen): But I was tense! I was ready to blow it up! I strongly protest!
PICARD: Screen off.
TROI: It was as though you were performing a scene for all of us.
RAL: Pardon me, Captain, I believe there's a slight conflict of interest here.
TROI: I agree, entirely. Mister Ral asked me not to tell anyone he has empathic powers which he uses to manipulate his competitors in a negotiation. And yes, it did put me in a conflict of interest, which I hope I have now resolved. Premier, I believe Ral has used your fear of continuing aggression between the Federation and its enemies to undermine our position. I also believe that this incident was staged by Ral and Goss to provide you a reason to choose in favor of the Chrysalians.
WESLEY: Captain, it's the shuttlecraft. They're coming back through.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Shuttle nine to Enterprise.
PICARD: On screen.
LAFORGE (voiceover): This is shuttle nine reporting in.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: Barely.
PICARD (voiceover): And the Ferengi pod, Commander?
LAFORGE: Trapped on the other side, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: In the Delta Quadrant. We tried to warn them. They wouldn't follow us.
PICARD: Elaborate.

[Shuttlepod]
DATA: Captain, this end of the wormhole is currently stable, but the other end apparently shifts positions periodically.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): The Barzan probe had no way to recognize this. Eventually, both sides will be unstable.
LAFORGE (voiceover): It's a dry well, Captain. Worthless.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Shuttle. Main shuttlebay, prepare for final approach.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
WORF: Captain, DaiMon Goss is demanding to know where his men are.
PICARD: Advise him to set his coordinates for the Delta Quadrant. He may run into them in eighty years or so.
RIKER: Mister Ral, congratulations on winning the rights to the Barzan wormhole.
RAL: I take the risks, Mister Riker, and I stand by my agreements.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in. When do you leave?
RAL: Soon. I've been recalled by the Chrysalians. Explanations demanded and so forth.
TROI: I'm sorry.
RAL: I've done well for them over the years. They understand the stakes. It'll be fine. I had to do it, Troi. Bhavani was ready to go with the Federation. I sensed it. I'd used up every card in the deck. I needed to change the rules.
TROI: You must have known I couldn't allow you to do that
RAL: My human physical response must have been blocking my Betazoid senses. I'm very grateful for what you did, in a way. It's made me take a hard look at who I am. I don't like what I see. I once asked you to run away with me. Now I'm asking again. I need you. You could help me change. You could be my conscience.
TROI: I already have a job as Counselor. If you want to know what happens to Arridor and Kol in the Delta Quadrant, here is the tale.

[Federation outpost]
RIKER: Someone sure stripped this place.
WORF: The reactor's gone.
RIKER: No wonder they didn't answer our hail for two days. Nothing here to answer with.
DATA: Commander, I am detecting life signs from behind that door.
RIKER: Worf!
CRUSHER: Commander, take a look at this.
RIKER: Blood.
CRUSHER: Yes, but not human. I'm going to have to do some analysis on it.
WORF: It's jammed.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The two scientists are suffering from phaser stuns. I'd guess several hits each.
PICARD: Several?
CRUSHER: It'll take us a while to bring them around, but they will recover. We found a sample of blood. It's a rare iron-copper composite, unique to one humanoid species. The Acamarians.
PICARD: Acamarians? Then that would suggest the Gatherers.
DATA: It is a likely hypothesis. The nomadic marauders who refer to themselves as Gatherers have raided other outposts in neighboring sectors.
RIKER: They've never come out this far before.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the Acamar system.
WESLEY (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43421.9. In an effort to put an end to the Gatherer raids, we have come to the Acamar System to enlist the aid of Marouk, the Sovereign of Acamar Three.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Their raids have made this sector unsafe. They've ransacked our research facilities, our trade routes have been disrupted.
MAROUK: The Gatherers are elusive. We've only managed to capture a handful of them. But with the Starfleet's help
PICARD: Hunting them down is not what I am proposing.
MAROUK: Reconciliation with the Gatherers is impossible. It's been tried. Every time we've offered amnesty, they've rejected it.
TROI: When was the last attempt made?
MAROUK: Eighteen years ago.
PICARD: Eighteen years?
MAROUK: For almost a century now, they've been parasites, moving from star system to star system, living on what they could find or steal.
PICARD: They're still your people.
MAROUK: No. Captain, you have to understand our history. A hundred years ago, before the Gatherers split off from our culture, we were a savage, violent race. Clans battled clans. Bloody, vengeful feuds that lasted for generations. But we overcame those ways, all except for the Gatherers.
TROI: After a century of wandering, they may be ready to come home.
PICARD: Despite your progress, you are a divided society, and so it will remain until the Gatherers return to Acamar.
MAROUK: The attempt may be futile.
PICARD: But there is so much to gain and there is so little to lose by the effort. The problem affects us all. It cannot be ignored.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Sovereign Marouk, welcome to the Bridge.
MAROUK: Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: How soon will you be ready to leave Acamar?
MAROUK: I am ready now, Captain. I need only bring aboard two more servants.
RIKER: I'll see to that, and to your accommodations.
MAROUK: I have reason to believe there is a Gatherer encampment somewhere in the Hromi Cluster.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The Federation has charted but not explored several class M planets in that area. Any one of these planets might well serve as a base.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the Hromi Cluster.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Marouk's quarters]
MAROUK: A fine ship, Commander.
RIKER: We're all very proud of her.
MAROUK: Yuta, a light meal in twenty minutes.
YUTA: May I be shown the kitchen, Commander?
RIKER: You're the chef?
YUTA: Yes. I'll prepare all meals for the Sovereign and her servants.
RIKER: We can provide you with a kitchen, but it won't really be necessary. These food dispensers can synthesize anything that you may been. I'll show you. Sovereign, may I offer you a drink?
MAROUK: Yes, thank you. Cold water.
RIKER: Computer, a glass of water, five degrees.
YUTA: Please.
RIKER: You're also the food taster?
YUTA: That's part of the cook's duty.
YUTA: I'm sure the Sovereign will wish to sample many of the cuisines your ship has to offer, but there are some Acamarian dishes that she will insist upon.
RIKER: I will arrange for a technician to help program your recipes into the computer. Of course, I'll have to try some of them. What's your specialty?
YUTA: I have none.
RIKER: Don't be modest. You can't tell me you haven't come up with a few culinary delights.
YUTA: There is a spiced parthas dish.
RIKER: Parthas?
YUTA: A green vegetable with fleshy roots.
RIKER: Parthas a la Yuta. I look forward to tasting it. Sovereign. Chef.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now entering standard orbit of Gamma Hromi Two, sir.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting life readings from the planet surface, as well as several small areas of thermal radiation and carbon dioxide emissions, indicative of combustion.
WESLEY: Campfires, Data.
DATA: Is that not what I said?
RIKER: It's worth a look.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Data, Worf.

[Gatherer camp]
LAFORGE: Artonian lasers. Tonkian homing beacons. Quite a collection.
DATA: Noranium alloy, sir. It's salvage value is quite low.
RIKER: Looks like these Gatherers weren't too discriminating in what they steal.
WORF: Commander? Ambush!
DATA: Rigelian phaser rifles, sir. Not particularly powerful.
RIKER: Powerful enough. We came to talk!
WORF: Your words are wasted, Commander. They understand only this.
RIKER: We're here to establish a dialogue, Worf.
RIKER: Data, tell me about noranium. It vaporizes at?
DATA: Two thousand three hundred fourteen degrees. Of course, noranium carbide
RIKER: Thank you, Data.
LAFORGE: Setting seven ought to do it.
RIKER: Three, two, one, now!
RIKER: Enterprise, four to beam up.
BRULL: Cowards!
WORF: Your ambushes would be more successful if you bathed more often.
RIKER: We've brought the Sovereign of Acamar.
BRULL: Marouk? Here?
RIKER: With an offer of amnesty.
MAROUK: Full dispensation will be extended to all Gatherers who are willing to return to Acamar Three.
BRULL: You don't trust me, Marouk.
MAROUK: Should I?
BRULL: But you expect me to trust you. Maybe you just poisoned it yourself. Taste this, Temarek.
MAROUK: Barbarians. This is futile.
PICARD: Sovereign. Brull!
BRULL: Go home, old woman.
MAROUK: You people haven't changed in a hundred years.
BRULL: You should know. You were there.
PICARD: Sit down! Please. Please. Now, we're here to talk.
MAROUK: It's a waste of time, Captain. They don't care about how they live.
BRULL: Am I supposed to believe that you care how we live?
MAROUK: Yes.
PICARD: Brull, she's here, isn't she?
BRULL: Maybe you forced her to come, Picard.
MAROUK: Nobody forces me anywhere, Brull.
BRULL: What is there for us on Acamar Three?
MAROUK: A life. A home. You can end your wanderings, your miserable existence.
BRULL: Do I look miserable to you?
MAROUK: The clan wars are over, Brull. It is a past we're ashamed of. It is why you had to leave. Now, it is time to come home.
BRULL: I want to speak privately with Sovereign Marouk and Picard. Everyone else, get out.
RIKER: Any insights?
TROI: Brull's ready to negotiate. He just wants privacy so that he won't appear weak in front of the other Gatherers.
YUTA: You are of the clan Lornak.
VOLNOTH: What of it? I've seen you before.
YUTA: Yes.
VOLNOTH: But it's impossible.
YUTA: No. Look closer. I am Yuta of the clan Tralesta.
YUTA: I am the last of my line, but my clan will outlive yours.
BRULL: Marouk's offer has value.
PICARD: Commander.
BRULL: But still, I don't know.
PICARD: But you'll agree it is enough to present to your leader.
BRULL: Chorgan is a better judge of these matters. I will take it to him. You will hear from me in twenty days.
PICARD: Brull, in twenty days, I hope to be very far away from here.
MAROUK: With all due respect, Brull, I would like to make the offer to Chorgan myself.
PICARD: We'll gladly take you with us on the Enterprise. How many of your men do you want to accompany you?
BRULL: I'll come alone. If this is a trap.
MAROUK: Oh, it isn't.
BRULL: Mallon, you'll be in charge while I'm gone. If I'm not back in ten days
TEMAREK: Brull! Brull!
BRULL: Volnoth.
RIKER: Away team to Enterprise. Medical Emergency.
BRULL: Volnoth was an old man. There's nothing to be done.
RIKER: There's a chance that our doctors can do something.
BRULL: You found him?
TEMAREK: Yes. And there are no other members of the Lornak clan here, so I claim his possessions.
BRULL: Granted.
MAROUK: Have you no respect for the dead?
BRULL: What's there to respect about a corpse?
BRULL: Temarek, no. Calm down.
CRUSHER: He's been dead too long.
RIKER: How?
CRUSHER: Cardiac arrest?
RIKER: You don't sound convinced.
CRUSHER: No, he died of a heart attack, all right, but I can't find the cause. His cardiac muscle is strong and there's no sign of arterial occlusion.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Brull, will you show Mister Crusher the course to set to the Hromi Cluster?
BRULL: A child? This doesn't inspire my confidence.
WESLEY: This is our present position.
BRULL: Set a heading for three four three mark seven two.
WESLEY: That's going to take us through the center of an asteroid belt.
BRULL: What's the matter, kid? Can't you fly yourself around a couple of rocks?
WESLEY: Sure I can, but if we take this heading we can avoid the belt completely, and only lose twelve point one minutes at warp seven.
BRULL: Have it your way, kid.

[Ten Forward]
MAROUK: For centuries, my planet was in chaos. Loyalty to one's clan was absolute. The slightest injury to one member demanded violent retaliation.
PICARD: And these blood feuds could last for decades?
MAROUK: The obsession with vengeance would be passed from generation to generation. And with each act of retribution, the violence would escalate.
PICARD: It's not unlike much the history of my own planet.
YUTA: Your pardon, Sovereign. May I be excused briefly? Commander Riker requested that I prepare him an Acamarian dish.
MAROUK: Of course, Yuta.
BRULL: What are you doing?
WESLEY: Homework.
BRULL: What is this?
WESLEY: Math.
BRULL: I can see that, but what does it mean?
WESLEY: This is the locally Euclidean metrisation of a k-fold contravariant Riemannian tensor field.
BRULL: You good at it? You don't like me.
WESLEY: I didn't say that.
BRULL: No problem. I have many friends that don't like me. But what do you know about me?
WESLEY: You're a thief.
BRULL: I do it to survive, not because I enjoy it. We Gatherers value our freedom. We do as we want and we answer to no creature.
WESLEY: Then why are you helping Sovereign Marouk to change all that?
BRULL: Maybe because I want something better for me, and for my children.
WESLEY: You have children?
BRULL: Yeah, two sons. One's just about your age. He's not any good at math.
RIKER: Parthas a la Yuta.
YUTA: With the help of one of your food stations.
TROI: It's wonderful.
RIKER: Truly excellent.
YUTA: Thank you.
RIKER: Would you care to join us?
YUTA: I don't want to intrude.
TROI: You're not. I was just leaving. Please, sit down.
RIKER: It really is delicious.
YUTA: I'm glad it pleases you, Commander.
RIKER: I'm not your commander. My name is William.
YUTA: I will call you William if you prefer.
RIKER: I do. When you say Commander you say it like you say Sovereign to Marouk.
YUTA: As a servant. You're an excellent commander, but you'd make a poor sovereign.
RIKER: Why's that? Not that I disagree.
YUTA: You're not comfortable with servants.
RIKER: No, I prefer the company of equals.
YUTA: So you treat me as an equal.
RIKER: And you're not comfortable with that?
YUTA: I'm not used to it. I've always been a servant. Not that I'm complaining. The Sovereign treats me well. I have all that I could want.
RIKER: What about freedom?
YUTA: I can never have that.
RIKER: Because you're the property of the Sovereign?
YUTA: No. I'm not her slave. I can leave whenever I wish.
RIKER: But you have no place to go?
YUTA: Just the opposite. My path is all too clear.
RIKER: Yuta, you're an excellent chef, but you speak in riddles.
YUTA: I've never been very good at conversation.
MAROUK: Yuta.
YUTA: I believe the Sovereign wants me to return. Enjoy the parthas.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Sickbay to Commander Riker. I've discovered something interesting, Will.
RIKER: On my way.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: You're scowling, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I'm thinking.
RIKER: And?
CRUSHER: The old Gatherer on the planet? I know what caused his heart attack. The medical tricorder almost missed it, but there was a microvirus in his body, blocking his autonomic nerve impulses.
RIKER: And that stopped his heart?
CRUSHER: But here's the really interesting part. This microvirus will only attach itself to cells which contain a very specific DNA sequence.
RIKER: How specific?
CRUSHER: Without knowing more about their genetic makeup, I can't be sure. But my guess is, this virus would only kill one Acamarian in a million.
RIKER: Pretty single-minded bug.
CRUSHER: Too single-minded. I can't believe it's a naturally occurring virus.
RIKER: Meaning somebody engineered it.
CRUSHER: Meaning Volnoth was murdered.

[Riker's quarters]
DATA (voiceover): Sir, Acamar Three has agreed to your request for access to their databases. They are now being transmitted into our computer over subspace link.
RIKER: Good. Notify Doctor Crusher when Acamar's medical database is online. Riker out. Come in.
YUTA: I'm disturbing you.
RIKER: Not at all.
YUTA: As the Sovereign has no further need for my services this evening, she suggested I might spend some time with you.
RIKER: What a charming suggestion.
YUTA: She appreciates the affection you've shown me.
RIKER: Was I that obvious?
YUTA: Yes.
RIKER: Well, I've already dined. Maybe you know a good Acamarian dessert recipe.
YUTA: Does that not please you? Tell me what you want, William. I will do anything you wish.
RIKER: Wait a minute.
YUTA: I don't understand. Don't you want me to give you pleasure?
RIKER: Not as a servant. I told you, I prefer equals.
YUTA: Even in the matters of love?
RIKER: Especially in matters of love.
YUTA: I've offended you.
RIKER: No. I only want to make you as happy as you want to make me. You're entitled to that.
YUTA: No, I'm not.
RIKER: Yuta.
YUTA: I do not feel pleasure, or passion. I haven't been able to for a long time.
RIKER: I don't know who did this to you, or why, but it can change.
YUTA: I wish it could. Tonight most of all. I'm sorry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Your people prepare a warm welcome.
BRULL: That's Chorgan's ship.
WORF: Shields holding.
PICARD: Mister Worf, contact Chorgan. Tell him Brull has brought us to talk.
WORF: Chorgan is not responding.
PICARD: Mister Worf, can we knock out their shields without seriously damaging their ship?
WORF: I believe we can, sir.
PICARD: Prepare phasers and open a channel.
WORF: Phasers locked. Channel open.
PICARD: Chorgan, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. All right, let's focus their attention. Mister Worf, fire phasers.
WORF: Their forward shields are inoperative.
PICARD: Well done, Lieutenant.
WORF: We are being hailed, sir.
PICARD: That's better. On screen.
CHORGAN (screen): Brull, you traitor! You have led them here to destroy me!
PICARD: Chorgan, if I had wanted you destroyed, you would not be talking to me now. Obviously, I wanted something else.
CHORGAN (screen): And what is that?
PICARD: I have on board Sovereign Marouk of Acamar Three. I want you to hear what she and Brull have to say.
BRULL: She's worth listening to.
CHORGAN (screen): I don't wish to listen to either of you.
PICARD: You have no choice. Prepare to receive us. We're beaming on board. Picard out. Cancel Red Alert. Tell Sovereign Marouk meet me in transporter three.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: You're going alone, Captain?
PICARD: The danger is minimal, Number One. Chorgan is unlikely to do anything rash with the Enterprise's phasers trained on his ship.
RIKER: There are still risks.
PICARD: For these negotiations to succeed I must be a mediator, not an enforcer. You have the Bridge, Number One. Brull.

[Chorgan's ship]
PICARD: Chorgan, this is Sovereign Marouk.
CHORGAN: You may sit.
PICARD: Chorgan, I think you will find Marouk's proposal
CHORGAN: You know, Picard, I could take you prisoner. Oh, don't worry, I've no intention of doing so. I know what trouble it's been for you to get here, and I am curious why.
PICARD: Then let's proceed.
MAROUK: Quite simply, I am proposing amnesty for every Gatherer.
CHORGAN: Amnesty? You mean slavery.
BRULL: Chorgan, if you want to know what I think
CHORGAN: I don't. Say what you came to say, though I doubt that I'm going to believe you.
MAROUK: I didn't believe this very persuasive Federation Captain when he suggested that we could reconcile our differences. I'm convinced now it's the right thing, not just for you, but for us too. We need you back. I've brought some Acamarian brandy. I'm sure it's been a long time.
CHORGAN: No! You have spent a century hunting us down.
PICARD: She is trying to put an end to all that.
CHORGAN: Yes, by luring us back and putting us in prison.
MAROUK: No, by accepting you back as free men.
CHORGAN: Will you feed and clothe us, too?
MAROUK: No, of course I won't. What I will do is give you the means to feed and clothe yourselves. We've set aside some land and you can use it to
CHORGAN: Land? Do we look like farmers to you?
MAROUK: Then don't farm. Use the land as you wish. It is yours. And the moment you set foot on it, you'll be better off than you are today. You won't be running any longer.
CHORGAN: We will need autonomy.
MAROUK: Autonomy?
PICARD: Sovereign, we can at least acknowledge that Chorgan appears willing to discuss your offer.
MAROUK: There are many levels of autonomy. Certainly your region would have certain rights.
CHORGAN: Yes, and those rights will be spelled out before I agree to anything.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I'm afraid the only entry we have on Volnoth in the Acamarian database is a birth record.
RIKER: Probably one of the last of the Gatherers to be born on their planet.
CRUSHER: Commander? I've been digging through the medical database from Acamar Three for hours, and I have found another victim of the same microvirus that killed Volnoth. But only one. Fifty three years ago, a Gatherer named Penthor-Mul.
RIKER: Data? Anything in your file on Penthor-Mul?
DATA: Yes, sir. He was a member of the Lornak clan. He was captured while leading a Gatherer raid on an Acamarian outpost. He died of a heart attack before his trial ended.
RIKER: Display Volnoth's birth record again.
CRUSHER: Lornak. The same clan.
RIKER: The only two recorded deaths by this microvirus both from the same clan. What does that tell us, Doctor?
CRUSHER: If these microbes were engineered for murder, I'd say somebody could be going after a whole family.
DATA: Commander, Chorgan, the present leader of the Gatherers, is also from the Lornak clan.
RIKER: I want to know just how this clan was involved in the Acamarian blood feuds, and I'd like to know any clue as to who their enemies were. How could this virus have been transmitted, Doctor?
CRUSHER: More ways than I can count. And it's perfectly safe to the carrier as long as he doesn't have the same DNA patterns.
RIKER: Tailor made for their enemies.
DATA: Commander, eighty years ago the Lornaks massacred a rival clan, the Tralestas. It ended a feud that had lasted for two hundred years.
RIKER: Ended it?
DATA: According to these records, there were no survivors. The Tralestas were annihilated.
CRUSHER: Something tells me they weren't all been wiped out.
RIKER: There must be a missing link here.
CRUSHER: Computer, any members of the Acamarian delegation from the Tralesta clan?
COMPUTER: Clan affiliation is not within provided records.
DATA: Sir, I believe I have found a correlation between the two deaths. Your missing link. That is Penthor-Mul being led from his trial.
RIKER: I don't see the connection.
DATA: Behind him and to the left, sir.
RIKER: Computer, scan left and magnify.
DATA: The computer can extrapolate and reconstruct the rest of the face, sir.
RIKER: Do it.
CRUSHER: But that photograph was taken over fifty years ago.
RIKER: Fifty three years ago, and she hasn't aged a day.

[Chorgan's ship]
MAROUK: Three seats on the ruling council?
CHORGAN: If we're going to be subject to your laws, we want a part in making it.
MAROUK: Well I agree you're entitled to representation but not on the ruling council.
CHORGAN: Unacceptable. The real power is in the council. You're shutting us off already.
MAROUK: No! You're trying to take too much! No group has three seats on the council.
CHORGAN: I don't care what others have.
MAROUK: You only care about what you can take.
PICARD: Sovereign, if the situation were reversed, I'm sure you would be demanding equal levels of representation.
MAROUK: You're right, Captain. I apologize for my temper.
PICARD: Perhaps a brief pause would be helpful.
CHORGAN: I agree. Maybe a little touch of that brandy?
MAROUK: Yuta.
PICARD: You know, thank you, it is remarkable how very much alike the two of you actually are.
CHORGAN: That's ridiculous.
MAROUK: Really, Captain.
PICARD: No, I'm quite serious. You are both able negotiators, strong leaders.
BRULL: We don't obey weak leaders.
CHORGAN: We have nothing in common at all. We haven't agreed to anything.
PICARD: You're wrong, Chorgan. We've agreed to have some brandy together.
RIKER: Don't move!
CHORGAN: A Federation trap!
PICARD: Chorgan, I assure you, my First Officer has a good reason for his actions. You do, Number One?
RIKER: Yuta. Move away from Chorgan. Do it.
YUTA: Why?
RIKER: Because of a man you once knew named Penthar-Mul.
CHORGAN: Penthar-Mul? How do you know Penthar-Mul?
RIKER: Tell him, Yuta.
YUTA: I don't understand.
RIKER: You were with Penthar-Mul when he died.
YUTA: It was fifty years ago. How could I?
RIKER: I know, Yuta. Stop! Chorgan, keep perfectly still. Your life is in danger. Step back, Yuta.
YUTA: William, this is not your concern.
RIKER: It is now. You're about to commit a murder.
YUTA: It isn't murder. It's justice.
CHORGAN: Who are you?
YUTA: Yuta of the clan Tralesta.
CHORGAN: There are no more Tralestas.
YUTA: Five survived the last Lornak raid. But on that day, a century ago, my life ended and my search began. I was the one chosen, transformed. My cells were altered, my aging slowed, enough to finish my task.
MAROUK: You used me in order to get to the last few you couldn't reach.
YUTA: Yes, Sovereign.
CHORGAN: You will never leave this ship alive.
YUTA: You're the last. Once you're dead, what happens to me doesn't matter.
RIKER: The wars are over, Yuta.
YUTA: You cannot understand.
RIKER: You're right, I can't. Because I've seen the part of you that regrets what you've become. Listen to me. You don't have to do this any more.
YUTA: I have no choice.
RIKER: You do.
YUTA: William, I. I'm sorry.
RIKER: Stop.
RIKER: Yuta, don't do this.
CHORGAN: Commander, I am in your debt.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Oh, yes, thank you. New orders from Starfleet. The rendezvous. Nothing, thank you. The rendezvous with the Goddard has been postponed.
RIKER: In the meantime?
PICARD: Starbase three four three. We're to take on medical supplies for the Alpha Leonis system.
RIKER: Sounds pretty routine.
PICARD: With the Gatherer truce in effect, it certainly should be. We won't require a full ship's complement. I'm going to extend shore leave on the starbase to anyone who wants it.
RIKER: I'll pass that along to the crew, Captain.

[English camp at Agincourt]
WILLIAMS: Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which breaks yonder?
BATES: I think it be, but we have no great cause to desire the approach of day.
WILLIAMS: Who's there?
DATA: A friend.
WILLIAMS: Under what captain serve you?
DATA: Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
WILLIAMS: I pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
DATA: Even as men wrecked upon a sand, that look to be washed off the next tide.
BATES: He hath not told his thought to the king?
DATA: No, nor it is not meet he should. For though I speak it to you, I think the king is but a man, as I am. The violet smells to him as it doth to me, in his nakedness he appears but a man. Therefore, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish as ours are. Yet no man should possess him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing it, should dishearten his army.
BATES: He may show what outward courage he will, but I believe, as cold a night as 'tis, he could wish himself in Thames up to the neck.
DATA: Methinks I could not die anyplace so contented as in the King's company, his cause being just and his quarrel honorable.
WILLIAMS: That's more than we know.
BATES: Or more than we should seek after. If his cause be wrong, our obedience to the King wipes the crime of it out of us.
WILLIAMS: But if the cause be not good, the King himself hath a heavy reckoning to make when all those legs and arms and heads chopped off in a battle shall join together at the latter day and cry all, we died at such a place.
DATA: The King is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of his servant.
PICARD: Splendid, Data. Splendid. You're getting better and better.
DATA: Freeze program. Thank you, sir. I plan to study the performances of Olivier, Branagh, Shapiro, Kullnark
PICARD: Data, you're here to learn about the human condition and there is no better way of doing that than by embracing Shakespeare. But you must discover it through your own performance, not by imitating others.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard. Sorry to interrupt, sir.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Sensors are picking up an

[Bridge]
RIKER: Unidentified craft in the Neutral Zone.

[English camp at Agincourt]
RIKER (voiceover): It's heading toward Federation space.
PICARD: On our way. Picard out. We'll get to the rest of the act another time, Data. Computer, file program and clear.
DATA: Captain, why should a king wish to pass as a commoner? If he is the leader, should he not be leading?

[Corridor]
PICARD: Listen to what Shakespeare is telling you about the man, Data. A king who had a true feeling for his soldiers would wish to share their fears with them on the eve of battle.
DATA: Sir, will I be able to schedule a performance for the crew in the near future?
PICARD: Let's not rush it, shall we?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Outpost Sierra Six confirms our readings, sir. They identify it as a Romulan scout ship. Bearing two seven zero mark one four.
PICARD: A scout ship? What would a scout ship be doing this far into the Neutral Zone?
WORF: Captain. Shall we transmit a warning to withdraw, sir?
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency.
WORF: Aye, sir. Captain, the Romulan is hailing us.
WORF: Not within range yet.
PICARD: Open a channel.
SETAL (voiceover): Federation ship, do you read? I require urgent assistance.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
SETAL (voiceover): Federation ship. Please, help me. Requesting asylum. Under pursuit.
RIKER: Pursuit?
WORF: Visual range. On screen, Captain.
PICARD: Red Alert. Open a channel to the warship.
RIKER: Come to intercept course. Keep us out of the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Channel is open.
RIKER: how long before they cross over into Federation territory?
DATA: Forty-one seconds, sir.
PICARD: Romulan warbird, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation vessel Enterprise. You have crossed into the Neutral Zone and are engaged in hostile action. Explain yourself and your intent.
WORF: No reply, sir.
PICARD: Hail the scout.
WORF: Responding.
PICARD: On screen.
SETAL (screen): Federation craft. Please, you must help me!
PICARD: We are moving to intercept. Maintain your course and power.
DATA: Scout ship is severely damaged, Captain. Engines inoperative, shields are down.
RIKER: Position?
DATA: Coordinates one four zero by two zero five, sir.
RIKER: Federation space.
PICARD: Right. Move to within five kilometers. Mister La Forge, prepare to extend

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Our shields around the Romulan scout ship.
LAFORGE: At that range, the shields won't be able to take much punishment, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Five kilometers, sir.
RIKER: All stop.
PICARD: Extend shields.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Shields in place.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've got the scout ship, Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Weapons on the warbird are fully powered, sir.
PICARD: Lock phasers. Open a channel.
WORF: Ready.
PICARD: Romulan vessel, you are now in Federation territory. Unless you withdraw
RIKER: No argument?
WORF: Warbird has re-entered the Neutral Zone. Heading for Romulan territory.
DATA: Massive power failure to the scout ship, sir. All systems are going offline, including life support.
PICARD: Transporter two, prepare to beam the occupant of the scout ship directly aboard.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Worf.
PICARD: Mister Data, lock onto the scout ship. Take it in tow.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Energize.
SETAL: I must see your captain immediately.
RIKER: We'll take you to Sickbay, after that
SETAL: This cannot wait. I have information vital to your survival.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43462.5. We have beamed aboard an apparent Romulan defector, who claims to be a low ranking logistics officer with extraordinary information about a secret offensive.

[Observation lounge]
SETAL: The humiliating defeat at the Battle of Cheron has not been forgotten. The new leaders have vowed to discard the treaty and claim the Neutral Zone. Nelvana Three is just the first step.
RIKER: You're saying an entire base has already been established there?
SETAL: In forty-eight hours, the reactor core will be online.
RIKER: So the Federation sensors that monitor the Neutral Zone just missed it?
SETAL: It would seem so. In two days, a fleet of Romulan warbirds will be within striking distance of fifteen Federation sectors.
WORF: The Federation will not permit that.
SETAL: Then it is war that we're talking about, isn't it? Destroy the base now and the threat is over.
PICARD: Well, I'm sure you are fatigued by your ordeal and you require medical attention. Lieutenant Worf, will you accompany Sublieutenant Setal to the Sickbay. We will attend to your quarters.
SETAL: No doubt you will wish to question me further.
PICARD: No doubt.
RIKER: He tells a hell of a story.
PICARD: You don't believe it?
RIKER: The Empire knows that we'd never allow them to maintain a base within the Neutral Zone.
DATA: Commander, that would not be an atypical Romulan ploy. In their long history of war, the Romulans have rarely attacked first. They prefer to test their enemy's resolve.
RIKER: I think he's a plant to draw us into the Neutral Zone. Then we'll look like the aggressors.
PICARD: And the Romulans would have a legitimate excuse for responding in force.
RIKER: Exactly.
DATA: That would also not be an atypical Romulan ploy, sir.
PICARD: It's always a chess game with them, isn't it?
LAFORGE: Well, at least he's given us the chance to get a look at some Romulan technology close up.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, you will lead the away team over to the scout. Commander, you and Counselor Troi will conduct Setal's interrogation.
DATA: Captain, permission to observe the interrogation?
PICARD: No, Mister Data. I need you on the Bridge with me. There is much to be done. We have less than forty eight hours to prevent a war. Or perhaps to start one. This will depend on establishing the truth of

[Sickbay]
SETAL: I set the auto-destruct sequencer before I left the ship.
RIKER: Why?
SETAL: Wouldn't you? To prevent your ship from being captured?
RIKER: Excuse me for being a little confused, Setal, but I thought you were defecting.
SETAL: I am not a traitor. All you can see is the opportunity to exploit me. The Federation credo, exploitation. You couldn't get aboard my ship fast enough. Strip it down. What secrets might it reveal that we can use? You're a short sighted people. Can't you understand? I came to stop a war.
CRUSHER: If you could just hold still? With your metabolism, this will heal in a few moments.
SETAL: Thank you, Doctor. How fortunate you know something of Romulan medicine.
CRUSHER: Yes. I had a chance to gain some experience recently.
SETAL: Ah, yes. The incident at Galorndon Core. The two officers.
WORF: You are aware of a great deal for a logistics clerk.
SETAL: It was common knowledge. I can show you my rating code.
WORF: Forged credentials are a simple matter for a spy.
SETAL: How do you allow Klingon pahtk to walk around in a Starfleet uniform?
WORF: You are lucky this is not a Klingon ship. We know how to deal with spies.
SETAL: Remove this tohzah from my sight.
RIKER: Your knowledge of Klingon curses is impressive. But as a Romulan might say, only a veruul would use such language in public. Mister Worf, please see to the security arrangements for our guest's stay.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: You find something amusing?
SETAL: Lieutenant Worf. I like him. To be more accurate, I understand him. A warrior, proud, fearless, living only for combat. Exactly the type that will get us all killed, if we're not careful.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: This is the food station. You can reach me through the comm. panel. Later, we'd like to ask you a few more questions.
SETAL: Computer, water.
COMPUTER: Temperature?
SETAL: Twelve onkians.
COMPUTER: This system is calibrated to the Celsius metric system.
SETAL: Any temperature at all on the cold side of whatever your system is.

[Bridge]
DATA: There is no unusual activity in the Nelvana System, sir.
PICARD: Let's isolate and magnify that system.
DATA: Nothing on the sensors.
PICARD: It is hard to believe in what one cannot see. And yet conceivably, with their cloaking technology, a fleet of Romulan warships could be passing before our eyes. There must be some way to neutralize this advantage.
COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority one message from Starfleet coming in on secured channel.
PICARD: In my Ready room. Computer, delay time?
COMPUTER: Two hours, twenty two minute delay from time of transmission

[Ready room]
COMPUTER: At Starfleet Command on Lya Three.
PICARD: Computer, key access four one two mark eight zero. Picard, Jean-Luc. Starfleet priority code Gamma. Decode. Begin message.
HADEN (screen): Captain, we have received an official protest from the Romulan Empire demanding the return of your defector. Obviously, we are refusing to comply. I join in your skepticism, but if it is a deception, the Romulans are certainly making a good show of it. The Federation Council has convened in emergency session. There is no doubt in my mind that this will eventually fall on your shoulders, Jean-Luc. You've got him. You must decide if he's telling the truth. For now, I suggest you proceed along the Neutral Zone border toward a Federation position proximate to Nelvana Three.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Please come to my Ready room.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir. On my way.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Slow playback. Display engine logs and power data of both vessels. Now watch what happens at zero nine five four three three on the clock. The scout has sustained engine damage, forcing him to slow to point six one five impulse power. The warship should overtake him, but it doesn't. Now, just two point six seconds later, the warbird slows to precisely the same speed. Three times, three speed fluctuations. The warship kept its distance every time. I don't think they wanted to catch up.
CRUSHER: And yet they fired at the scout ship. They could have killed him.
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to direct the impact of their weapons as we do.
PICARD: Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted?
CRUSHER: They're very bad burns. I hardly think
PICARD: A possibility.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the Romulan base becomes functional.

[Ready room]
HADEN (screen): The Monitor and the Hood are headed in your direction, though they will arrive too late to be of assistance. Warnings have gone out to all outposts along the border as well as several independent vessels in nearby sectors. No one here wants a war, Captain. But we are prepared to take them on if that's what they want. All Federation starships have been placed on Yellow Alert.
PICARD: Come.
DATA: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Data. I want you to prepare a class one probe. Set the sensors for maximum scan. I want every meter of Nelvana Three monitored.
DATA: I will start my calibrations, sir.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: Is there something else you require of me, Captain?
PICARD: Your clarity of thought. Your objectivity, as always. Sit down. Data, it's very possible we are about to go to war. The repercussions of what we do during the next twenty four hours may be felt for years to come. I want you to keep a record of these events, so that history will have the benefit of a dispassionate view.
DATA: I will begin immediately, sir. Is that all?
PICARD: How is the crew's spirit?
DATA: They are concerned, of course, Captain, but confident. Do you not see that, sir?
PICARD: Data, unlike King Henry, it is not easy for me to disguise myself and walk among my troops. That'll be all.
PICARD: Now, if these men do not die well, it will be a black matter for the king that led them to it.

[Debriefing room]
SETAL: Why must we waste time playing this ridiculous game?
TROI: There's more here than you're telling us. You're forcing yourself to hold back.
SETAL: I have told you everything relevant about Nelvana Three.
TROI: I'm not talking about the base.
SETAL: The base is all that matters.
RIKER: You're lying, Setal.
SETAL: Go to Nelvana Three, and you will see.
RIKER: We're not going anywhere until we get to the truth You're a spy, aren't you?
SETAL: No.
RIKER: Then prove it. You can begin by telling me something about the location and strength of the Romulan fleet.
SETAL: I don't know it.
RIKER: You're a logistics officer.
SETAL: For one sector only.
RIKER: Who's your superior officer?
SETAL: Admiral Jarok.
RIKER: The location of the Romulan bases along the Neutral Zone?
SETAL: I don't know.
RIKER: In your sector?
SETAL: Irrelevant.
RIKER: The number of troops under your admiral's command?
SETAL: Irrelevant. Irrelevant.
RIKER: I guess you're right. It's not worth playing this game.
SETAL: What a fool I've been. To come looking for courage in a lair of cowards.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority message from security officer, Klingon vessel Bortas.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, will you handle this at security station, deck nine.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sensors are configured for planetary probe, sir. Ready for launch.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: Probe on course. Sensors are functioning.
PICARD: Coordinate your analysis with Mister La Forge. I want this report with dispatch.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. My gut tells me we ought to be listening to what this guy's trying to tell us.
DATA: Your gut?
LAFORGE: It's just a feeling, you know? An instinct. Intuition.
DATA: But those qualities would interfere with rational judgment, would they not?
LAFORGE: You're right. Sometimes they do.
DATA: Then why not rely strictly on the facts?
LAFORGE: Because you just can't rely on the plain and simple facts. Sometimes they lie.
DATA: They can lead to wrong conclusions, but they cannot lie.
LAFORGE: What do you think? Is he a defector or not?
DATA: The facts to date would lead to an objective conclusion that he is not.
LAFORGE: Somehow I think we're going to catch the Romulans with their pants down on Nelvana Three, just like he says.
DATA: With their pants?
LAFORGE: A metaphor. Catching them in the act.
DATA: Because your gut tells you so?
LAFORGE: Exactly. But you can't always go with your gut either. It's a combination, Data. Right, I'll put it to you this way. All these feelings that get in the way of human judgment, that confuse the hell out of us, that make us second guess ourselves, well we need them. We need them to help us fill in the missing pieces because we almost never have all the facts.
DATA: So a person fills in missing pieces of the puzzle with his own personality, resulting in a conclusion based as much on instinct and intuition as on fact.
LAFORGE: Now you're getting it.
DATA: But what does one do if he has no instinct and intuition?
LAFORGE: Data. Look at this. The facts just took a left turn.

[Ready room]
DATA: As the probe went into orbit around Nelvana Three, it began picking up low level subspace radio emissions.
PICARD: Could they be naturally occurring?
DATA: No, sir. The patterns are clearly artificial.
LAFORGE: The signal was so faint our ship sensors couldn't read it from this distance.
PICARD: Can we decode it?
LAFORGE: We've tried. It's probably Romulan but we can't be sure. We've also picked up ionization disturbances.
DATA: Cloaked Romulan ships could produce that effect.
PICARD: What about the planet surface?
LAFORGE: Reading nothing but barren rock. I don't know. They might be able to hide a base from our probe. Its capabilities are limited. The only way we'll know for sure is if we go and take a look for ourselves.
PICARD: That'll be all, gentlemen.

[Ten Forward]
SETAL: I take it you have never seen a Romulan before.
DATA: That would be an incorrect assumption.
SETAL: Then why do you invade my privacy?
DATA: I was attempting to ascertain what my guts tell me about you.
SETAL: You're the android. I know a host of Romulan cyberneticists that would love to be this close to you.
DATA: I do not find that concept particularly appealing.
SETAL: Nor should you.
DATA: I am told by various crewmembers that this viewport is their favorite on the ship.
SETAL: I thought it would bring me some comfort. But these are not my stars. Even the heavens are denied to me here. Synthetic swill. I don't suppose your food terminals would be capable of producing a Romulan ale?
DATA: I am afraid they would require the molecular structure of the beverage in question. And, as you are no doubt aware, our knowledge of your planet is quite limited.
SETAL: The loss is yours. For I have visited over a hundred different worlds, and none possessed the awesome beauty of Romulus.
DATA: Am I correct in assuming you regret your decision to come here?
SETAL: What I did had to be done. But to never again see the firefalls of Gath Gal'thong, and the spires of my home as they rise above the Apnex Sea at dawn. It's a bitter thing to be exiled from your home.
DATA: It does appear unlikely you will ever be allowed to return to your planet.
SETAL: The cold reaction of an android.
DATA: But perhaps we can bring Romulus to you.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Program complete.
DATA: Run program.
DATA: After you.

[Holodeck]
SETAL: The valley of Chula. I know it well.
DATA: You are free to stay here as long as you wish.
SETAL: I no longer live here. Turn it off.
DATA: Cancel program.
SETAL: This. This is my home now. My future. I have sacrificed everything. It must not be in vain. Arrange a meeting between myself and Captain Picard. Tell him Admiral Jarok wants to see him.

[Ready room]
HADEN (screen): Captain, we have confirmed that you are holding Admiral Alidar Jarok. He has been identified as the commander at the massacre at the Norkan outposts. The Council strongly advises that you to consider Jarok an unreliable source of information.
PICARD: Bring him in.
PICARD: Ensign, will you wait outside? Have a seat, Admiral Jarok.
JAROK: Captain, there is no more time.
PICARD: Admiral, have a seat. You see, I'm just not convinced that you are telling the truth.
JAROK: What must I do?
PICARD: You must convince me. If I had irrefutable evidence? But you did not bring irrefutable evidence. You brought no evidence at all. Now, here, you are not the man you claimed to be. Admiral, your credibility is stretched beyond belief. A Romulan defector is almost a contradiction in terms. But Admiral Jarok crossing the lines?
JAROK: I explained my motives to your interrogators.
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Peace in our galaxy. Except, Admiral, you are not a man of peace. Your military record, what we know of it, is clear.
JAROK: which is precisely why I chose an alternate identity here.
PICARD: The massacres in the Norkan outposts, for example.
JAROK: What you call massacres were called the Norkan Campaign on my world, Captain. One world's butcher is another world's hero. Perhaps I am neither one.
PICARD: On what basis, Admiral, am I to decide? Your good word? Are you willing to help us overpower the Romulan B-type warbirds we may encounter? Are you prepared to help us detect them through their cloaking shields? You see my problem, Admiral. You ask us for faith in circumstances which are hardly possible to believe, compounded by lies and your refusal to tell us all you know.
JAROK: I cannot betray my people.
PICARD: You've already betrayed your people, Admiral. You've made your choices, sir. You're a traitor. Now, if the bitter taste of that is unpalatable to you, I am truly sorry. But I will not risk the lives of my crew because you think you can dance on the edge of the Neutral Zone. You've crossed over, Admiral. You make yourself comfortable with that.
JAROK: Do you have any children, Captain Picard? A family?
PICARD: No.
JAROK: Then you have sacrificed too much for your career.
PICARD: Yes, this is all very interesting.
JAROK: There comes a time in a man's life that you cannot know. When he looks down at the first smile of his baby girl and realizes he must change the world for her. For all children. It is for her that I am here. Not to destroy the Romulan Empire, but to save it. For months, I tried desperately to persuade the High Command that another war would destroy the Empire. They got tired of my arguments. Finally I was censured, sent off to command some distant sector. This was my only recourse. I will never see my child smile again. She will grow up believing that her father is a traitor. But she will grow up. If you act, Picard. If we stop the war before it begins
PICARD: I can't. And I won't. Unless I have unequivocal cooperation.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Admiral Jarok has provided me with the locations, strengths and tactical plans of the Romulan fleet. Mister La Forge, he is prepared to give you data regarding engines, weapons and the cloaking systems of the warbird class starship. But I believe his experience as a field commander will be more valuable for its strategic sense than in the technical areas.
LAFORGE: Any edge'll help, Captain.
PICARD: Don't depend on it. For all we know, he may still be lying, but we shall find that out soon enough. Number One, set course for Nelvana Three. Second officer's log, stardate 43465.2. We have entered the Neutral Zone in direct violation of the Treaty of Algeron. Presuming Romulan warships are cloaked and monitoring us, we expect heavy resistance as we approach Nelvana Three.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Tactical?
WORF: Nothing on sensors.
RIKER: I don't like it I would've expected a greeting party.
PICARD: You echo another noteworthy commander in a similar circumstances, Number One. A countryman of yours, George Armstrong Custer when his Seventh Cavalry arrived at the Little Big Horn.
RIKER: May we have better luck.
DATA: Approaching Nelvana system.
PICARD: Engage impulse engines.
RIKER: Nelvana Three on screen. Still no sign of them on sensors. In a way, I'd rather be fighting my way this, It's just too damned easy.
PICARD: Prepare to enter standard orbit. Data?
DATA: Scanning the planet, sir. No life forms, no power sources, no weapons systems.
RIKER: No indication of a base at all?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: The subspace signal the probe detected? The ionization disturbances?
DATA: I am picking them up, sir, but I cannot identify the source. They seem to be moving in an orbital path with an eight hundred kilometer apogee.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, bring the Admiral up here.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Maybe they abandoned the planet after he defected.
DATA: There is no scarring on the planet surface that would denote heavy construction of any kind.
RIKER: A cloaking device of some sort, to hide the entire base?
DATA: A cloaking device operating on the surface would be given away by visible distortion effects.
PICARD: Perhaps you'd care to explain why we're here, Admiral.
RIKER: There doesn't appear to be a base.
JAROK: I don't understand.
PICARD: Nelvana Three, Admiral. No base, no weapons, no sign of any life at all.
JAROK: But I saw the tactical communiqués. The records. Timetables for completion. An entire legion was assigned to the section.
PICARD: Is it possible they could have been feeding you disinformation? You said that you had been censured. Reassigned, four months ago. They knew of your dissatisfaction. Could all this have been to test your loyalty?
JAROK: No. No. It's impossible.
PICARD: They let you escape with an arsenal of worthless secrets. What other explanation is there?
RIKER: Permission to withdraw from the Neutral Zone?
PICARD: At your earliest convenience, Number One.
RIKER: Helm, bring her round one hundred and eighty degrees. Geordi, get us out of here.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I hear you, Commander.
WORF: Two Romulan warships uncloaking. Coordinates
WORF: Shields holding.
RIKER: Damage?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Minor damage in the secondary hull.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Power transfer fields may be pinched off.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm working on it.
WORF: Captain!
PICARD: Not yet, Mister Worf. This is just a tap on the shoulder, or we wouldn't be here talking about it.
WORF: The Romulans are hailing us.
PICARD: On screen.
TOMALAK (screen): Captain Picard, I hardly expected to see you again so soon. It seems this time you are the one who has made an aggressive move across the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Commander Tomalak, as I'm sure you already know, we were responding to a warnings of Romulan incursions at Nelvana Three.
TOMALAK (screen): But, Captain, as you can see, there is no incursion.
PICARD: And the matter of the unidentified subspace radio emissions, and the ionization disturbances?
TOMALAK (screen): Ah, you must mean our orbiting probe. We are studying Nelvana Three for archeological research.
PICARD: With a cloaked satellite?
TOMALAK (screen): Really, Captain, would you have us believe this satellite is an excuse for your aggressive charge across the Neutral Zone?
PICARD: You can believe what you wish. We will be on our way.
TOMALAK (screen): Without even an apology, Captain?
PICARD: If an apology will do, then I offer it.
TOMALAK (screen): I'm afraid it won't, so I will save you the humiliation.
PICARD: Get to it, Tomalak.
TOMALAK (screen): You see, Picard, after we dissect your Enterprise for every precious bit of information, I intend to display its broken hull in the center of the Romulan capitol as a symbol of our victory. It will inspire our armies for generations to come, and serve as a warning to any other traitor who would create ripples of disloyalty.
JAROK: All the communiqués, all the timetables, all the records. They were all fiction, written for my benefit. A test. A test of my loyalty. And you used me to lure the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone.
TOMALAK (screen): First, Captain, you will return the traitor Jarok, then you will surrender as prisoners of war.
PICARD: Do you seriously expect me to accept those terms?
TOMALAK (screen): No, Captain Picard, I expect you won't. You have thirty seconds to decide.
PICARD: I do not require one, Tomalak.
TOMALAK (screen): I urge you, Captain Picard, surrender. Consider the men and women you would lead into a lost cause.
PICARD: If the cause is just and honorable, they are prepared to give their lives. Are you prepared to die today, Tomalak?
TOMALAK (screen): I expected more from you than an idle threat, Picard.
PICARD: Then you shall have it. Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
WORF: Klingon warships armed and ready, sir.
PICARD: What shall it be, Tomalak?
TOMALAK (screen): You will still not survive our assault.
PICARD: You will not survive ours. Shall we die together?
TOMALAK (screen): I look forward to our next meeting, Captain.
WORF: Romulan disruptors powering down, sir.
PICARD: Cancel red alert. Mister Worf, will you extend the appreciation of the Federation and my personal gratitude to the Klingons.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Take us back, Number One.
JAROK: I did it for nothing. My home, my family. For nothing.

[Guest quarters]
CRUSHER: He ingested a Felodesine chip. He must have brought it with him. I'm sorry, Captain. There was no antidote.
RIKER: A letter to his wife and daughter.
DATA: Sir, he must have known it would be impossible for us to deliver this.
PICARD: Today, perhaps. But if there are others with the courage of Admiral Jarok, we may hope to see a day of peace when we can take his letter home.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43489.2. We have arrived at Angosia Three, a planet that has expressed a strong desire for membership in the Federation. Prime Minister Nayrok has taken Commander Riker and me on a tour of the capital city.

[Angosian Senate]
PICARD: Well, I'm greatly impressed with everything I've seen so far, Prime Minister.
NAYROK: Then I hope it will reflect favorably in your report, Captain.
RIKER: It's a tribute to your people that you were able to recover so rapidly from the Tarsian War.
NAYROK: It is indeed. We are not warriors. We believe reason can settle disputes. But not every culture agrees with our position.
PICARD: An unfortunate reality.
NAYROK: The development of the mind, the cultivation of the intellect, these are the pursuits to which the Angosians have dedicated themselves for centuries.
ZAYNAR: Prime Minister. I'm sorry to interrupt, but we have a problem. May I see you for a moment?
NAYROK: Excuse me, gentlemen. Yes, what is it?
PICARD: Well, I think they'll make a fine addition to the Federation, Number One.
RIKER: I'm not sure I'd like to live in this place. A little stuffy for my taste.
NAYROK: A prisoner has escaped from the penal colony on Lunar Five. Two guards are dead. The prisoner has taken a transport vessel.
RIKER: Do you have means of pursuit?
NAYROK: The tracking station was sabotaged. The entire base is in chaos. We have ordered ships from the surface to follow him, but to be honest, our civilian pilots are not trained for this.
RIKER: With your permission? Mister Data, a stolen transport vessel has departed from Lunar Five.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Have you picked it up on the sensors?
DATA: Yes, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Good.

[Angosian Senate]
RIKER: Detain the vessel and quarantine the pilot. Is he armed?
NAYROK: Yes. And extremely dangerous, Commander. Lunar Five is a maximum security facility.
RIKER: Did you read that, Data?
DATA (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We will use extreme caution.
RIKER (voiceover): Keep us informed. Riker out.
WORF: On screen, sir.
DATA: Specifications on the vessel, Mister Worf?
WORF: No warp drive. Minimal weaponry.
DATA: Heading, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Three one nine mark two five oh, sir.
LAFORGE: Vessel's speed increasing to point oh two impulse. He's seen us, Data.
LAFORGE: That's the ship's drive section
WESLEY: What happened to the rest of the ship?
DATA: Scan the drive section for life form readings.
WORF: None.
DATA: Bring us around to the back side of the asteroid, Mister Crusher.
LAFORGE: Sensors indicate wreckage on the asteroid's surface, Data.
WORF: No life signs.
DATA: Apparently, he did not survive.
WESLEY: Data, the drive section. Where'd it go? There's no sign of it on its previous heading. Someone must be at the helm.
RIKER (voiceover): Status report, Mister Data?
DATA: I am afraid the prisoner has eluded us, sir.

[Angosian Senate]
PICARD: Eluded the Enterprise?

[Bridge]
DATA: We followed procedures precisely, Captain. Scanners indicated no life forms present in the drive section. I cannot explain how he escaped.
WORF: Incoming message from the Angosian Prime Minister.
PICARD: On screen.
NAYROK (screen): Captain, we've identified the prisoner. His name is Roga Danar. His criminal record is too long to go into, but I must caution you that he is given to bouts of uncontrollable violence.
PICARD: I appreciate your warning, Prime Minister. We will keep you informed of our progress.
RIKER: Geordi, how far and how fast can that transport ship travel?
LAFORGE: Without warp drive, there's no way he could be out of our range by now.
WESLEY: We've been sweeping the area constantly, Commander. There's nothing within sensor range.
PICARD: A cloaking device?
WORF: Sir, the Angosians have no cloaking technology.
RIKER: Unless he's borrowing one. If he's hanging over the planet's pole, the magnetic field would confuse our sensors.
DATA: Commander, I believe I can recalibrate our sensors to read through the electromagnetic interference over the poles.
RIKER: Let's try it. Mister Crusher, realign for polar orbit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: There he is, Commander. You were correct.
RIKER: This guy knows all the tricks, doesn't he.
DATA: There are still no life form readings coming from the vessel.
LAFORGE: Could it be the magnetic interference, Data?
DATA: I have compensated. Still no readings.
PICARD: We'll have an answer shortly. Lock on tractor beam, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Tractor beam locking on, sir.
DATA: He is coming about, sir.
RIKER: He's out of his mind!
WORF: Sensors detect a massive power build up in his aft thrusters.
PICARD: On main viewer.
LAFORGE: He's making a suicide run.
DATA: Shields have been automatically activated. Tractor beam disengaged.
WESLEY: He bounced off the shields.
RIKER: That's an interesting twist.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, fix coordinates onto that vessel. We'll just beam the whole thing to a shuttlebay if we have to.
DATA: I do not believe that will be necessary, Captain. He is no longer in the drive section.
PICARD: What?
DATA: I anticipated that diversionary tactic based on his pattern to date. We are picking up a cylindrical object approximately seven meters in length and three meters in diameter.
WORF: On screen.
PICARD: Magnify.
WESLEY: An escape pod.
LAFORGE: This guy's incredible.
DATA: Yet there are still no life form readings.
PICARD: Transporter room four, prepare to beam aboard from inside that shuttle anything large enough to be a humanoid adult.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
WORF: Security team, report to transporter room four.
SECURITY (voiceover): On our way, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: We're holding the contents in stasis pending arrival of security. An illicit weapon has been detected in the transport beam, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: It's been rendered inoperable.
RIKER: Work, let's greet our guest.

[Transporter room]
SECURITY: Bring him in, Mister O'Brien.
SECURITY: Just stay where you are.
O'BRIEN: More security, transporter room four. More security! More security!

[Corridor]
RIKER: Get him to a detention cell. Set phasers on maximum stun.
O'BRIEN: Commander.

[Bridge]
NAYROK (screen): We'll need a few hours to get the containment field on Lunar Five operational before we pick him up. The damage he did during his escape was considerable.
PICARD: We will await your signal.
NAYROK (screen): I appreciate your patience. The prison psychologist recommends that you keep Danar fully sedated until he's ready for transport.
PICARD: Well, he's in our highest security detention area. There shouldn't be any more problems.
NAYROK (screen): Do not relax your security for an instant, Captain. He is extremely violent and very cunning, as you already know. I will send a transport vessel to pick him up as soon as possible. Nayrok out.
RIKER: Have you run a diagnostic on the sensors, Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. There is nothing wrong with the ship's sensors. The reason we did not sense life signs aboard the escape vessel is because the prisoner has no life signs.
RIKER: Computer, identify the occupant of the detention cell.
COMPUTER: The detention cell is vacant at this time.
RIKER: He's in there.
PICARD: Could he be some kind of android?
DATA: Our sensors can identify artificial lifeforms, sir. Apparently, he is capable of deceiving the sensors.

[Brig]
TROI: Are you all right?
ROGA: What is this ship?
TROI: You're on board the USS Enterprise.
ROGA: A war vessel?
TROI: A Federation starship.
ROGA: Federation!
TROI: We were orbiting Angosia when you escaped from Lunar Five.
ROGA: It seems that I am a victim of my own bad timing. And you are the keeper of this jail?
TROI: I'm Deanna Troi, ship's Counselor.
ROGA: Counselor? Too bad. I'd rather you were a jailer to keep me company during my return trip. I assume we are returning to Lunar Five.
TROI: That terrifies you.
ROGA: I just killed three men to get out of there, Counselor, and I'm fully capable of killing you as well. That's terrifying thought, isn't it? Even to me.
TROI: Do they mistreat you there?
ROGA: Not at all. I am comfortable, well fed and housed. Oh no, the Angosians take good care of their prisoners. It's simply a matter of never being able to leave. What about you, Counselor? Do you always visit the prisoners? Are you a specialist in criminal behavior? Or am I just an interesting specimen that landed on your ship like an insect to be studied under your microscope?
TROI: Why do you have all this anger toward me?
ROGA: A girl with long dark hair broke my heart a long time ago. Out of bitterness and resentment, I turned to crime. How about this one? My mother abandoned me when I was a little boy. I never got the guidance that a wild young man needed.
TROI: Why are you doing this?
ROGA: Playing games? Isn't that what you do, Counselor? Isn't that what all of you mind control experts do?
TROI: I am not a mind control expert. I came here because I sensed you were in pain.
ROGA: And what do you sense now?
TROI: The pain is gone.
ROGA: It's interesting, isn't it?

[Ready room]
TROI: There's a duality in the man. It's hard to describe. He's aware of his crimes. In fact, they trouble him deeply.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: He's intelligent, thoughtful, typically Angosian. I know what he's done, but when I'm with him I cannot believe he is randomly and deliberately violent. in fact, inherently, he has a non-violent personality.
PICARD: Counselor, it took five men to restrain him and he took apart half of the Transporter Room in the process.
TROI: I'm not opening the door for him, Captain. I can only tell you that I sense something very unusual about him. Something that is not inherent to a criminal personality.
PICARD: In a few hours, I'll be turning him over to the Angosians, and I'll be happy to do it.
TROI: I understand.

[Bridge]
TROI: Data, do we have a link up to the Angosian central computer?
DATA: Yes, Counselor. We are copying records for Federation inspection pursuant to their application for admittance.
TROI: Can I see a police record on Roga Danar?
DATA: There is no police record.
TROI: That's impossible. He's been in prison.
DATA: Lunar Five is a military prison facility.
TROI: Military? He's a soldier ?
DATA: That may provide an explanation for the tactics he was able to use against us when we tried to capture him.
TROI: It doesn't say here what he was arrested for. Call up his military record.
DATA: He served in many campaigns during the Tarsian War, received two promotions, to the rank of Subhadar. A very honorable tour of duty
TROI: What was this man's crime?

[Brig]
TROI: I've learned you are a soldier.
ROGA: I was a soldier.
TROI: Why were you put in prison?
ROGA: Obviously, because I am a threat to society.
TROI: There's no police record. What did you do?
ROGA: Everything they asked me to do. That's why I became such a threat.
TROI: I don't understand.
ROGA: Why are you bothering to try, Counselor?
TROI: Because I want to help, if I can.
ROGA: Unlock the door.
TROI: You are a non-violent man, yet you committed acts of excessive violence.
ROGA: You can learn to do it if you have to.
TROI: Did you have to?
ROGA: It was war.
TROI: So it started with the war?
ROGA: It started the day I volunteered, Counselor. The day I began training. The day I met my first instructor. And he also called himself a counselor.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Roga Danar was an idealistic young man who answered his people's call to service. He joined the military to fight for the Angosian way of life. What he didn't realize was that by doing so he would have to give up that way of life for ever. He's not the same man who left home to go to war. He's been through intense psychological manipulation and biochemical modifications.
CRUSHER: At Troi's request I examined him. His cell structure has been significantly altered. They used a combination of cryptobiolin, triclenidil, macrospentol and a few things I can't even recognize.
RIKER: Was he a prisoner of war? Who did this to him?
TROI: His own government. He's been programmed to be the perfect soldier. He can be absolutely normal, but when a danger is perceived, the programming clicks in and takes over. Memory, strength, intelligence, reflexes, all become enhanced. He's conditioned to survive at any cost.
CRUSHER: One of the new substances in his cellular structure even shields electrical impulses.
DATA: Perhaps that would explain why our sensors did not detect him.
PICARD: Why was he assigned to the Lunar Five facility?
TROI: He committed no crime. He says he was ordered there with others like him. When the first soldiers returned to Angosia, they had trouble. The rules changed too quickly. A lost temper could result in murder.
DATA: Counselor, did no one try to adjust their programming?
TROI: They were just exiled to Lunar Five.
PICARD: Lunar Five, an orbiting gulag.

[Brig]
ROGA: What do you want?
DATA: Am I disturbing you?
ROGA: Yes.
DATA: Then I will leave.
ROGA: NO. Wait, wait. I'd rather talk to someone. Why do you have yellow eyes?
DATA: I am an android. I believe you and I have something in common.
ROGA: We do?
DATA: Yes. We have both been programmed.
ROGA: Ah, yes, yes. You've been talking to Counselor Troi. It is not at all the same, android.
DATA: I do not mean to belittle your condition. I understand your dilemma. But I am curious. My program can be altered. Yours cannot?
ROGA: The man I was is still inside me, but this conditioning has been imposed. Woven together with my thoughts and my feelings and my responses. How do you separate the program from the man?
DATA: Without further analysis of your condition from Counselor Troi or Doctor Crusher, I cannot say. But I believe it is possible.
ROGA: Yeah, doctors! The Angosian doctors did this to me. If it could be undone, wouldn't they undo it?
DATA: I cannot answer that.
ROGA: Nor can I, yet I ask myself that question every moment of every day.

[Ready room]
NAYROK (screen): Captain, what this man has been telling you is full of half-truths. He's a prisoner. What do you expect him to say about us?
PICARD: Well, perhaps you would clarify it for me.
NAYROK (screen): The soldiers were resettled on Lunar Five. It was to be their colony.
PICARD: Was it a resettlement of their choosing?
NAYROK (screen): It was for their own protection as well as that of others. Most of them were quite happy there. We went to great lengths to give them a fine quality of life.
PICARD: Prime Minister, even the most comfortable prison is a prison.
NAYROK (screen): Unfortunately, a few agitators like Danar forced us to add security.
PICARD: My medical team suggests there may be alternative treatment.
NAYROK (screen): Captain, I assure you that every alternative has been explored. And this discussion is now treading upon matters of internal security, which is not your concern. I have dispatched a ship to rendezvous with you to transport the prisoner back to Lunar Five. On behalf of Angosia, I thank the Federation for its assistance in retrieving our citizen.
PICARD: Matter of internal security. The age-old cry of the oppressor.

[Brig]
ROGA: Were you built for combat, android?
DATA: No. But my program does include military strategy. That is how I was able to anticipate your final tactic and capture you.
ROGA: You did that? Perhaps you would be better at combat than you think.
DATA: Except that I am not programmed to kill.
ROGA: My improved reflexes have allowed me to kill eighty four times. And my improved memory lets me remember each of those eighty four faces. Can you understand how that feels?
DATA: I am incapable of any feeling.
ROGA: Why, then I envy you.
TROI: Roga, this is Captain Picard.
ROGA: Captain.
PICARD: Mister Danar, I'm transferring you to Angosian security. They're en route. They will arrive shortly. I wanted to tell you I have no choice. The Prime Minister insisted and we have no right to refuse.
ROGA: You would be foolish to consider it otherwise, Captain, for they are very correct. I am dangerous. There is no place for me in a civilized society.
TROI: I do not believe that.
DATA: Nor do I.
PICARD: I respect my officers' judgments. I wish I could help further. If a way appears to me, I will.
ROGA: I appreciate your telling me that face to face.
PICARD: I thought you deserved that much.
ROGA: And you deserve to know that I must use whatever means I can to escape.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, the Angosian transport vessel has arrived.
PICARD: Inform them the transfer will take place shortly. Picard out. Mister Data, to the Bridge please.
ROGA: Take care of yourself, android. I enjoyed our talk.
DATA: I too.
TROI: Perhaps when this planet becomes a member of the Federation, we'll be able
ROGA: I will not be there to see it, Counselor. Because even with this overwhelming demand to survive that they've built into my soul, I would rather die than return to Lunar Five.

[Bridge]
WAGNOR (screen): Captain Picard, we're ready to receive the prisoner. Now transmitting the coordinates of our holding cell.
DATA: Coordinates received, sir.
PICARD: Stand by for transport. Picard out. Mister Worf, have all security precautions been taken?
WORF: Release of the force field and activation of the transporter will be virtually simultaneous. There will only be a point one second difference between them.
RIKER: Even Danar can't move that fast.
WORF: There will be a full security contingent present.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter room one to Lieutenant Worf. We're ready, sir.

[Brig]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Energizing.
WORF: O'Brien, increase transporter power.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I'm losing him.

[Brig]
TROI: Roga, don't! You'll be killed!

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: What the hell?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Security personnel, full alert. Shut down all shuttlebays, transporters, and turbolifts.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, a phaser is missing.

[Brig]
WORF: We must assume that he is armed.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Sound general quarters. Clear corridors of all non-essential personnel. I don't want him taking any hostages.
DATA: General quarters sounded, sir.
PICARD: Raise security containment fields immediately on decks thirty four, thirty five, and thirty six.
SECURITY (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Data, put the turbolifts back online. If Danar sees they're operating, he may try to use them. Soon as he does, we have him.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, unauthorized access of turbolift five on deck thirty four.
RIKER: He took the bait.
PICARD: Data, override its destination. Divert that turbolift to a position near Lieutenant Worf's present location.
DATA: Four seconds to arrival, sir.

[Corridor]
WORF: We're in position.
WORF: Phaser on overload! Seal this deck.

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): Captain, the overload has been averted.

[Corridor]
ROGA: Drop force field on deck thirty six.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, containment field down on deck thirty six.
RIKER: How the hell did he manage that?
PICARD: He's headed for Engineering.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Engineering, respond.

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Engineering!. Engineering, come in! Geordi, are you okay?

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, someone in Engineering is attempting to override the security system lockout.
RIKER: Riker to Worf, he's in Engineering.

[Corridor]
WORF: Acknowledged, Commander. We're on our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, I want you to stall Danar. Allow him to think he's succeeding.
DATA: As he bypasses each subsystem, I can re-route it without his knowledge.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Danar is extremely adept, sir. I am not certain which security measure he is attempting to circumvent. Sir, Danar has succeeded in restoring power to shuttlebay two.
DATA: I have overridden Danar's bypass. Shuttlebay two is once again inactive.
PICARD: Very good, Mister Data. Now we know where he's headed.

[Engineering]
WORF: Geordi!
LAFORGE: I'm all right. He took us by surprise. He came out of nowhere. I didn't think anyone could move that fast.
DATA (voiceover): Lieutenant, I am reading an open panel. K twelve, J nine, deck thirty.
WORF: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: Danar must have climbed up the reactor core and got into a Jefferies tube. He could be anywhere.
WORF: We believe he is attempting to reach shuttlebay two.
LAFORGE: That's twenty five decks up from here. Quite a climb, but I wouldn't put it past him.
WORF: There is a full contingent of security at all shuttlebays.
LAFORGE: You want my advice? Double it!

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, reading another open access panel.
PICARD: Security team to Jefferies tube J four, deck fifteen.
SECURITY (voiceover): Security acknowledged.
RIKER: Deck fifteen, a few decks below the shuttlebay.
DATA: Sir, I find it highly unlikely that Danar would be attempting to reach shuttlebay two.
PICARD: Explain.
DATA: In our previous encounter, Danar employed a strategy of misdirection in an attempt to gain his objective.
PICARD: And you believe he's using the same tactic now.
DATA: He is aware that our sensors are unable to track him, yet he seems to be purposely leaving a trail for us to follow.
RIKER: Where do you think he's headed?
DATA: I am afraid his true destination remains a mystery. Readings now indicate an open access panel in Jeffries tube N eleven, deck thirty eight.
PICARD: He's doubled back on us.
RIKER: The cargo bays.
PICARD: Advise all personnel on deck thirty eight to stay out of the cargo bays.
PICARD: Status, Mister Data?
DATA: They appear to be empty, sir.
PICARD: Good. I want you to flood them with anestazine.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sensors show anestazine concentration seventy parts per million within the cargo bays.
RIKER: That should have put our boy to sleep.
PICARD: Return environmental conditions to normal, Mister Data. Move in your security teams, Mister Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Worf to Bridge. We have found no sign of the intruder. But there is a missing pressure suit

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): From cargo bay three.
PICARD: Pressure suit?
RIKER: Could be he's planning to enter shuttlebay two from outside the Enterprise, bypassing the security guards.
PICARD: Mister Worf, post security guards at all emergency airlocks on decks

[Cargo bay]
PICARD (voiceover): Thirty seven through thirty nine.
WORF: Aye, sir. I'll also cover the photon torpedo launchers. Danar may attempt to leave the ship that way. Worf out.
WORF: Danar! You are cunning. You must have Klingon blood. But the battle is over.
ROGA: My battle is never over.
WORF: Worf to Bridge. I have Danar.

[Bridge]
DATA: Explosion in Jefferies tube section T nine five. All external sensors inoperative.
RIKER: Go to backup systems.
DATA: Unable to transfer control, sir.

[Transport ship]
ROGA: Sit down, gentlemen.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Worf to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead.
WORF: Danar has escaped.

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): He used a phaser to power the cargo transporter. Coordinates indicate he beamed aboard the Angosian transport ship.
PICARD: Data, can you verify that?
DATA: Negative, sir. All external sensors still nonfunctioning.
PICARD: Then we have no way to track him.
RIKER: That was his plan all along. First officer's log, supplemental. We are continuing to repair damage to the ship's sensors following the escape of the Angosian prisoner, Danar. He is still at large.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Engineering, I'm getting readings on Tactical. Are we back up?
LAFORGE (voiceover): That's affirmative, Commander.
PICARD: Mister Worf, sweep the area.
DATA: Captain, the Prime Minister is hailing us. Priority one.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Priority channel cleared.
PICARD: Yes, Prime Minister?
NAYROK (screen): Captain, I've just been informed that Roga Danar has attacked the penal colony on Lunar Five.
PICARD: Attacked it ?
NAYROK (screen): In our own police shuttle. Several of my people have been wounded. Hundreds of prisoners are rioting. Some of them have escaped with Danar and at last report are headed to the capital city. Captain, we are not suited to handle situations like this. That's what we created them for.
PICARD: I'll send an away team, Prime Minister. Picard out. Counselor Troi, Commander Data, Mister Worf, you will accompany me to the planet.

[Corridor]
PICARD: And my understanding is these men are programmed to survive. Is that correct?
TROI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: And that they will not kill unless their survival is at stake?
DATA: It is against their nature to do so, Captain.
PICARD: Then let us hope they do not believe their survival is at stake.
RIKER: Mister Worf, you are personally responsible for the Captain's safety.
WORF: I understand, Commander.

[Angosian Senate]
NAYROK: I don't expect them to listen to reason. I loathe the idea of a violent confrontation, but we must be prepared.
NAYROK: This is all you've brought? Where are your security men?
PICARD: We're not here to fight your wars for you.
NAYROK: They have been seen moving toward the center of the city. People are scared. Don't you understand, Captain? They're dangerous.
PICARD: You are dangerous. They're only victims. You made them what they are. You asked them to defend your way of life and then you discarded them.
ZAYNAR: They were not happy here.
TROI: They were not welcome here.
ZAYNAR: It was the will of the people to resettle them.
NAYROK: No one was pleased with the solution, but we had to act for the greater good.
DATA: Prime Minister, if you have the skills to create a master soldier, can you not contradict the effect?
NAYROK: The chemicals can be removed from their systems, but we're not convinced that the psychological conditioning can ever be entirely reversed.
DATA: Have you tried, sir?
NAYROK: We studied it thoroughly. Even before the training began, we knew there would be problems reversing it. It was a risk we had to take.
WORF: Did you reveal that risk to the men who volunteered for service?
NAYROK: We were helping them to survive the war, you understand? They needed these skills.
PICARD: They're your brothers, your sons, and you turned your backs on them.
TROI: There are methods of treatment. Until you try them, how can you know they won't work? Even a partial recovery could give them some peace.
ZAYNAR: It was the will of the people.
TROI: To allow them to suffer?
NAYROK: There was a referendum. The people weighed the costs involved. They chose the resettlement solution.
ZAYNAR: Besides, we may need to use them again some day.
PICARD: Have you understood one word that we've said?
ROGA: Freeze! Nobody move!
PICARD: No, Worf! All of you. Don't respond. Don't provoke them further. Keep those weapons down unless you wish to be killed.
NAYROK: Do as he says.
ROGA: No! Don't. Shoot us. Destroy us. Do what you have to do. But you will not ignore us. Go on, do it!
ROGA: Cowards.
PICARD: Yes, and you are not programmed to murder cowards. So if they will not fight back, what will you do?
ROGA: We will not go back.
NAYROK: You are programmed to survive. You can survive at the Lunar Five settlement.
ROGA: To survive is not enough. To simply exist is not enough.
TROI: Roga, tell them what you want.
ROGA: We want our lives back. We want to come home.
NAYROK: I am not prepared to negotiate under threat, Danar, but if you will put down your weapons and return peaceably to Lunar Five, I would be willing.
ROGA: Mister Prime Minister, with all due respect, you will have to force us. Or at least try.
NAYROK: Captain, you must do something. Call your ship.
PICARD: Quite right, Prime Minister. Enterprise, prepare to beam the away team back.
RIKER (voiceover): At your command, Captain.
NAYROK: Picard, you can't leave us like this.
PICARD: I have all the information I need for our report. Your prisoner has been returned to you and you have a decision to make. Whether to try to force them back or welcome them home. In your own words, this is not our affair. We cannot interfere in the natural course of your society's development, and I'd say it's likely to develop significantly in the next several minutes. It's been an interesting visit. When you're ready for membership, the Federation will be pleased to reconsider your application. Mister Riker, four to beam up.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Success, Captain?
PICARD: Number One, will you note in our report that if the government of Angosia survives the night, we will offer them Federation assistance in their efforts to reprogram their veterans.
RIKER: And if the government doesn't survive?
PICARD: I have a feeling they will choose to. Mister Crusher, set coordinates for Starbase Lya Three.
WESLEY: Coordinates set, Captain.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43510.7. The Enterprise has put in at Rutia Four to deliver medical supplies following an outbreak of violent protests. Although non-aligned, the planet has enjoyed a long trading relationship with the Federation. Now, a generation of peace has ended with terrorist attacks by Ansata separatists, who are demanding autonomy and self-determination for their homeland on the western continent. Recreational shore leave has been prohibited and all away teams have been beam down armed.

[Plaza Cafe]
DATA: We have only a few minutes before our next meeting, Doctor.
CRUSHER: It's all right. We're finished. Waiter?
WORF: Doctor!

[Plaza]
POLICEMAN: Keep back!
CRUSHER: Put that away. I'm a doctor. Just lie still. Try not to move.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf, I need some bandages, disinfectant, something with alcohol in it.
WORF: Doctor, it is not safe.
CRUSHER: That's an order, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: Don't be afraid. There's a lot of bleeding, but it's not as bad as it looks.
POLICEMAN: The Klingon's right. These Ansata, they're madmen. There could be another bomb. Clear this area. Everyone out of the plaza.
DATA: Doctor, I believe it would be prudent to return to the Enterprise. There are physicians on this planet.
CRUSHER: Who are not here. I am.
WORF: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
KATIK: Not at all, Doctor.
DATA: Captain, there has been an incident.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): A bomb has been detonated by Ansata terrorists.
PICARD: Your security status?
DATA (voiceover): Vulnerable, sir.
PICARD: Transporter room three, lock onto the away team, prepare to beam them back.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Yes, Captain.

[Plaza]
DATA: Sir, I've recommended such a course, but there are several wounded people and Doctor Crusher

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Is insisting on attending to
PICARD: I understand. Picard to Doctor Crusher.

[Plaza]
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor, Commander Data has informed me of your situation.
CRUSHER: I already know what you're going to say.
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor, will you at least allow me to
CRUSHER: The longer we argue, the longer

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): It's going to take me to save
PICARD: Doctor, you are endangering yourself and the away team.

[Plaza]
CRUSHER: Captain, I am trying to put life back into a wounded body with sleight of hand. I'm not going anywhere. Data and Worf

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Don't have to stay. Crusher out.
PICARD: Transporter room, do you have lock on the away team?
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir. Shall I transport them?
RIKER: I don't want to be in the transporter room to greet her.
PICARD: Commander Data.

[Plaza]
PICARD (voiceover): Hold your position until the Rutian medics arrive.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: The tricorder is not reading any other explosive devices in this vicinity.
ALEXANA: Get out of the way!
CRUSHER: You don't understand. I'm a

[Observation lounge]
DATA: A transporter would leave residual ionization in the air. Our tricorder readings found no trace after the incident.
RIKER: People don't just appear and disappear. There must be some way to track her.
DATA: We have been unable to detect a signal from her communicator. Either it has been deactivated or she is being held in a shielded location.
PICARD: Why her?
WORF: Sir, I believe she was the intended target of the abduction.
RIKER: Why would they want to take a Federation hostage? Their fight doesn't involve us.
WORF: It does now.

[Side cave]
FINN: You hungry? You want something to eat?
FINN: I doesn't matter to me. You want to be hungry, be hungry. What's your name? You're a doctor on a Federation starship. I always wondered what it would be like to travel across the galaxy. It's not something I've exactly had time for. This isn't the best way to meet new people, is it? If you need anything, ask for me. My name is Kyril Finn. They know me.

[Ready room]
TROI: We have no reason to believe she's been hurt in any way.
PICARD: In fact, it's more than likely that they will take good care of her, if they want to use her as a bargaining chip.
WESLEY: Bargaining chip?
TROI: The innocent often become the pawns in conflicts of this type, Wes.
PICARD: You see, the Ansata separatists have been trying for generations to freed themselves from the rule of the eastern continent. If they can get the government just to acknowledge their demands, then kidnapping your mother will have served its purpose. I think that may be what they're after, but it may not. Frankly, Wesley, I don't care. My only concern is to get your mother back. Very shortly, we shall be leaving to have a meeting with the authorities.
WESLEY: Request permission to be on the away team, sir.
PICARD: No. You have an important job to do here. If we are to free your mother, then we have to be able to trace the movements of the terrorists. I want you to work with the team that are investigating this new technology of theirs.
WESLEY: I understand.
PICARD: Report to Mister Data. Dismissed.
TROI: He needs your strength right now.
PICARD: History has shown us that strength may be useless when faced with terrorism.

[Alexana's office]
PICARD: And what exactly is Ansata policy with regard to hostages?
ALEXANA: I doubt they have one. They don't usually take hostages. These are not people we're dealing with here. They're animals. Fanatics who kill without remorse or conscience. Who think nothing of murdering innocent people.
PICARD: But they could just as easily have shot her where she stood.
ALEXANA: Don't ask me to explain them. I can't. The atrocities that I've seen. And now they have this new device that makes them even more deadly. How do I combat an enemy who fails to register on any scanner until they're literally standing in front of you, pointing a phaser at your head?
RIKER: What can you tell us about this device?
ALEXANA: Not much, really. They first started using it two months ago. We've taken several of these off dead terrorists. Our people have looked at them Nothing they can explain
RIKER: Do you mind if we take one of these with us and have our people study it?
ALEXANA: Not at all. And I'll put you in touch with our research people, if you wish.
PICARD: I appreciate your help.
ALEXANA: Perhaps if we found ourselves in possession of some of that advanced Federation weaponry of yours, it would shift the balance of power back to our favor.
PICARD: Of course you know that is out of the question.
ALEXANA: Yes, of course.
PICARD: I would like to leave Commander Riker to assist in your search for Doctor Crusher.
ALEXANA: If you like.
RIKER: You don't sound very optimistic.
ALEXANA: I know my enemy, Commander. They don't leave much room for optimism.

[Side cave]
FINN: You hungry? You want something to eat? Relax, relax. I'm just going to
FINN: Now eat something. What's the point of not eating? You're the only one who suffers. Do I look like it's bothering me? Okay, it's bothering me. Come on.
FINN: No forks. Sorry. Did I mention my name is Finn? And you're?
CRUSHER: Why have you brought me here?
FINN: I need a doctor.
CRUSHER: There are doctors on Rutia.
FINN: I need someone better. I heard you were with the Federation flagship and I knew you had to be.
CRUSHER: Who told you that?
FINN: I heard. Now you'll help me, just like you helped them.
CRUSHER: What are you talking about?
FINN: Your ship carries medical supplies for them, for the other side. Why does the Federation ally itself with the Rutians?
CRUSHER: We don't. All we did was bring
FINN: Medical supplies.
CRUSHER: People were hurt.
FINN: I know. I hurt them. You're finished eating. Get up. Get up!
CRUSHER: I have a son.
FINN: You'll be with him again, Doctor. I see no reason to kill you.

[Infirmary]
CRUSHER: I need some instruments from my ship in order to diagnose this.
FINN: You think if I allow you to contact your ship, they will transport the instruments?
CRUSHER: When I inform the Captain how serious the situation is, I'm sure he'll agree. I've told you, Finn, the Federation is not allied with Rutians. We're here on an errand of mercy.
FINN: And since the Federation does not wish to take sides, they will send the supplies that you need.
CRUSHER: Absolutely.
FINN: I've anticipated your needs.
CRUSHER: These are Federation supplies. The ones we had delivered to the medical dispensary.
FINN: I heard.

[Alexana's office]
RIKER: You mean to tell me all these people belong to the Ansata?
ALEXANA: No, not really. We suspect the organization itself only to consist of some two hundred members. There are over five thousand names on this list, citizens we know to be sympathetic to their cause. They pass along weaponry and information, march in pro-Ansata demonstrations, participate in general strikes or the occasional riot.
RIKER: How did this ever get started?
ALEXANA: Seventy years ago we denied them independence. That gave them a noble cause. Now it's just an excuse for more violence.
RIKER: You hate them as much as they hate you.
ALEXANA: Believe it or not, I always considered myself moderate.
RIKER: What changed your mind?
ALEXANA: Being stationed here for six months, watching the body count grow. The three assassination attempts on my life.
RIKER: Well, that'll change your point of view.
ALEXANA: The event that really opened my eyes took place only a few days after my arrival. A terrorist bomb destroyed a shuttlebus. Sixty schoolchildren. There were no survivors. The Ansata claimed that it was a mistake, that their intended target was a police transport. As if that made everything all right. That day I vowed that I would put an end to terrorism in this city. And I will.

[Infirmary]
CRUSHER: Thank you. You're very helpful. You could learn to do this when you grow up. If you grow up.
CRUSHER: They're dying. I'm seeing a complicated set of conditions. Their DNA is warped somehow, and it's distorting their entire cellular chemistry.
FINN: You can't do anything?
CRUSHER: I can make them more comfortable. That's all. The damage is too extensive.

[Cavern]
CRUSHER: If I could detect their condition earlier
FINN: You could reverse the damage?
CRUSHER: Perhaps. I don't know. What happened to them?
FINN: It's the inverter. It's given our cause a new life, but it asks for our lives in return.
CRUSHER: What does it do?
FINN: We transport through a dimensional shift that the Rutian sensors can't trace.
CRUSHER: Dimensional shifting? You can't do that with humanoid tissue.
FINN: There are risks, the designers told us, But it works.
CRUSHER: You're showing the same distorted readings. Not as severe as the others, but
FINN: It doesn't matter.
CRUSHER: It does if it kills you.
FINN: Don't you know? A dead martyr's worth ten posturing leaders.

[Engineering]
DATA: A subspace field coil with an isolated power source. Curious.
LAFORGE: Hey, guys. Come here. Look at this. The Rutian team picked up a faint nuclear vibration during the terrorist movements.
WESLEY: Nuclear vibration?
DATA: That could possibly indicate subspace transition rebound during transport.
WESLEY: Wait a minute, wait a minute. May I? Computer, call up the files on. What was his name? We spent two hours on him in astral physics last year. Folded-space transport.
LAFORGE: Adaptive transport.
WESLEY: Yes.
DATA: Are you referring to the Elway Theorem?
WESLEY: Yes. Computer, call up the files on the Elway Theorem. What if they're using inter-dimensional travel?
DATA: But the Elway Theorem proved to be entirely inaccurate. All research was abandoned by the mid-twenty third century.
WESLEY: But Data, look, the nuclear vibrations are the same, and Elway used a model similar to this.
LAFORGE: It would certainly be untraceable by any standard method of detection.
DATA: But it was proven to be fatal. To use this technology would be an irrational act.
PICARD: We may be dealing with irrational people, Data. Is there a way to trace this?
LAFORGE: With an adaptive subspace echogram, maybe?
DATA: Captain, anyone who is willing to transport in this manner, would suffer significant internal damage that could be detected.
PICARD: It sounds as though they may require the services of a doctor.

[Plaza]
RIKER: This is no way to live.
ALEXANA: For us or them?
RIKER: For both of you.
ALEXANA: I know it's not pretty, Riker, but this is what terrorism has done to this city.
RIKER: There's got to be a better way to deal with it than this.
ALEXANA: My methods may seem harsh but believe me, they're gentle compared to my predecessors. Suspects would be brought into police headquarters and mysteriously vanish. I put a stop to that.
RIKER: What happened to your predecessors?
ALEXANA: They were murdered.
RIKER: Are you going to tell me that little boy's a threat?
ALEXANA: It's possible. That shuttlebus I told you about? The bomb was set by a teenager. In a world where children blow up children, everyone's a threat.

[Infirmary]
CRUSHER: It's okay. Over there.
CRUSHER: You should be drawing, not killing people.
FINN: I can do both.
CRUSHER: How can you have such a casual attitude toward killing?
FINN: I take my killing very seriously, Doctor. You are an idealist.
CRUSHER: I live in an ideal culture. There's no need for your kind of violence. We've proven that.
FINN: Your origins on Earth are from the American continent, are they not?
CRUSHER: North America.
FINN: Yes, I've read your history books. This is a war for independence, and I am no different than your own George Washington
CRUSHER: Washington was a military general, not a terrorist.
FINN: The difference between generals and terrorists, Doctor, is only the difference between winners and losers. You win, you're called a general. You lose
CRUSHER: You are killing innocent people! Can't you see the immorality of what you're doing or have you killed so much you've become blind to it?
FINN: How much innocent blood has been spilled for the cause of freedom in the history of your Federation, Doctor? How many good and noble societies have bombed civilians in war, have wiped out whole cities. And now that you enjoy the comfort that has come from their battles, their killing, you frown on my immorality? I am willing to die for my freedom, Doctor. And in the finest tradition of your own great civilization, I'm willing to kill for it, too.

[Alexana's office]
ALEXANA: All right. You can go.
POLICEMAN (voiceover): Next man.
ALEXANA: If you want, I could become more persuasive.
RIKER: No.
ALEXANA: You're Katik Shaw, the waiter from the Lumar Cafe. You witnessed both the explosion and the kidnapping.
KATIK: I saw nothing.
ALEXANA: We're aware of your ties with the Ansata. For all we know you planted the bomb yourself. Where have they taken her?
KATIK: I don't know what you're talking about.
RIKER: I've had enough of this. I want you to take a message back to your people. You tell them the Federation is willing to negotiate for the release of Doctor Crusher.
ALEXANA: Riker!
RIKER: She's a Starfleet officer. She's my responsibility. Your people have terms. We're willing to listen. We want her back. It's as simple as that. I don't think it's necessary to detain this gentleman any longer.
ALEXANA: Get out.
ALEXANA: I should have him followed, but we'll try it your way.
RIKER: Is that what you want?
ALEXANA: What I want is to go home. Back to my own country. To leave behind the roundups, the interrogations, the bodies lying in the street. To be able to walk without bodyguards, and to not have to jump at every unexpected noise. That's what I want, Riker!

[Bridge]
DATA: A dimensional jump can create subspace pressure modulation, Captain. By setting up a magnetosphere echogram that can monitor each of their movements, we may be able to collect enough data to trace their power source.
PICARD: Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take?
DATA: Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I cannot say. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects of Ansata conduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my program as unnecessary and unacceptable.
PICARD: By my program as well, Data.
DATA: But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often successful? I have been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it appears that terrorism is an effective way to promote political change.
PICARD: Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory that political power flows from the barrel of a gun.
DATA: Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The independence of the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of 2024, and the Kensey Rebellion.
PICARD: Yes, I am aware of them.
DATA: Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable when all options for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed?
PICARD: Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling with throughout history. Your confusion is only human.

[Infirmary]
KATIK: Finn, everyone is being rounded up.
FINN: Because of her?
KATIK: The Federation wants to negotiate her release.
FINN: While they arrange for the Rutian police to fill up the detention cells.
KATIK: A Starfleet officer is working with the director. He wants a meeting with you.
FINN: I'm sure he does. Your Federation colleagues have engineered mass arrests to pressure me into releasing you.
CRUSHER: I'm sure you've misunderstood.
FINN: They're working with the police. He's seen it with his own eyes.
CRUSHER: All they want is to get me back safely.
FINN: I'm not releasing you. I need you here.
CRUSHER: To find a way to reverse the effects of the dimensional shift? I can do that right now. Stop using it! I have a life, Finn. I have a son who needs me.
FINN: Is your son on the ship?
CRUSHER: Yes.
FINN: I'm sorry he's on the ship.
CRUSHER: No.
FINN: They have joined forces with the Rutians against us.
CRUSHER: We are not your enemy.
FINN: They are more valuable to me than an enemy. For seventy years we have shouted, and no one's heard us. Destroy the Federation flagship, someone will listen.
CRUSHER: Please.
FINN: They are the ones who interfered. They are the ones who sent medical supplies. They are the ones who organized mass arrests. They are killing your son, not me.
CRUSHER: Please, Finn, don't do this. I will do anything you ask.
FINN: I had a son, too. He was thirteen when he died in detention.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: What?

[Bridge]
WORF: Intruder alert, deck twelve.
WESLEY: Another subspace reflection. Dimensional shift, sir.
PICARD: Go to Red alert. Sound general quarters.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Security to Engineering.

[Bridge]
WORF: Intruders in Engineering
DATA: Casualties reported on deck twelve. Sickbay responding.
PICARD: Seal off all decks. Lock on transporters to the intruder signals.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Intruder signals unstable, Captain, I cannot lock on.
DATA: They are moving inter-dimensionally. Neither transporters nor forcefields will contain them, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Explosive charge on the main warp chamber.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room three, lock on the explosive device and energize.
CREWMAN (voiceover): It's scrambling the sensors, Captain. I can't pinpoint it.
PICARD: Begin emergency evacuation. Stand by for saucer separation, Mister La Forge, can you remove the charge from the engine core?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm trying. Hold on.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: They've got it locked on somehow. Stand by.
LAFORGE: Transporter room, lock on my signal and stand by to transport two kilometers off the starboard nacelle.

[Bridge]
TROI: His signal?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Transporter Room, now!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, report.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Transport complete, Captain. I have a man down.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: More dimensional shifts, sir.
PICARD: Can you calibrate their destination?
WESLEY: No, sir, the readings are
TROI: Security. Code one emergency. Security!

[Bridge]
TROI: Lieutenant Worf is recovering in Sickbay. The wound was not severe.
RIKER: Dead? Injured?
TROI: Three dead, four wounded.
LAFORGE: Another millisecond, there'd have been a big dust cloud orbiting Rutia instead of the Enterprise.
RIKER: Why? I just asked if they would talk.
ALEXANA: You have your answer, Riker.
WESLEY: Sir, the next time the Ansata use their dimensional jump we should be able to get a fix on the power source.

[Side cave]
PICARD: Worf went down. I don't know if he's alive or dead. And there were other casualties.
CRUSHER: Was Wes on the Bridge?
PICARD: Yes. He took cover. I didn't see any more than that. But you all right though?
CRUSHER: Yes, they needed a doctor.
PICARD: The side effects of the transport?
CRUSHER: Yes.
PICARD: We're getting closer to tracing their movements. Actually, it was Wesley who put us onto this dimensional jump of theirs. He has been extraordinary, Beverly. He's going to make a very fine officer.
CRUSHER: He's had good role models. I'm sorry. If I'd only gone back to the ship.
PICARD: I should have beamed you up.
CRUSHER: You wouldn't dare.
PICARD: Oh yes I would, and should.
CRUSHER: Without my permission?
PICARD: If you don't follow orders.
CRUSHER: If you'd give reasonable orders, I'd obey.
PICARD: Doctor, I will be the judge of reasonable.
CRUSHER: There aren't any exits to the surface.
PICARD: So the only way out is by the transporter. Or the dimensional jump.
CRUSHER: A mode of travel I'd encourage you to avoid. It's killing them.
PICARD: They're mad.
CRUSHER: I don't know any more. The difference between a madman and a committed man willing to die for a cause. It's all become blurred over the last few days.
PICARD: Beverly, I don't have to remind you of the psychological impact of being a hostage.
CRUSHER: I know. I understand that. But their leader, Finn, he's not what you'd expect.
PICARD: No, he's certainly not what I would expect. Without cause or reason, he and his little band of outlaws has attacked my ship!
CRUSHER: But he did have reasons. The medical supplies, the arrests. Jean-Luc, if we really examined our role in all this
PICARD: Beverly, you are arguing for a man who may have murdered your son.
FINN: I didn't kill your son, Beverly. We weren't able to destroy the ship. We had to settle for him. She wouldn't even tell me her name. I call her Doctor.
PICARD: You have made a grave miscalculation.
FINN: Oh?
PICARD: You have assaulted a Federation starship, killed and wounded several members of her crew, kidnapped two of her officers, and you don't expect a response?
FINN: On the contrary, I'm counting on it.
PICARD: You want Federation involvement?
FINN: Captain, the Federation has a lot to admire in it, but there's a hint of moral cowardice in your dealings with non-aligned planets. You're doing business with a government that is crushing us and you say you're not involved. You're very, very much involved. You just don't want to get dirty.
PICARD: You accuse us of cowardice while you plant bombs in shadows?
FINN: I am been fighting the only war that I can against an intractable enemy. Now, I'm fighting a big war against a more powerful adversary. Can't you see how that helps me?
CRUSHER: I'm afraid I can't.
PICARD: He's added another chair to the negotiating table.
FINN: You added the chair, Captain. I am simply forcing you to sit in it. The Federation will quickly tire of our little war. They'll want you back. They will want to get as far away from Rutia as they can. And I will not make it easy. Eventually, the Federation will force the government into make concessions. And then a few more, and then a few more. Until we can finally reach an honorable agreement that saves face for all sides. Except we win.
PICARD: You understand I will not cooperate with you in any way.
FINN: You've already cooperated, Captain, just by coming here.

[Corridor]
FINN: I am not here to hurt you. Just hear what I have to say. Your people are safe. How long they stay that way depends on you. We demand an embargo and trade sanctions levied against Rutia. The Federation will blockade the planet. No ships will be allowed in or out. This will continue until the government of Rutia consents to talks mediated by a Federation council. You have twelve hours to make your decision.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Got it. We've pinpointed the Ansata base to some three hundred kilometers from the city, on the southern tip of the continent.
DATA: Sensors indicate it is located thirty meters below the ground, implying a cavern-like dwelling.
RIKER: Any passages leading to the surface?
DATA: Our readings show no evidence of any, Commander.
RIKER: Any light they have must be artificially generated.
ALEXANA: If we could shut that down, you could use the confusion to find your people.
WORF: Request permission to join the rescue party, sir. I owe it to the Captain.
RIKER: Permission granted. You have the bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WESLEY: Commander? Good luck.
RIKER: We'll bring her home, Wes.

[Infirmary]
FINN: You're glad to see your Captain.
CRUSHER: Yes.
FINN: I may have to kill him. I just wanted to warn you.
CRUSHER: He can help you, Finn. He is very influential.
FINN: He will not help us.
CRUSHER: If you could just convince him that your cause is
FINN: You may be able to convince him, perhaps. Not I.
CRUSHER: I've talked to him. I'll try.
FINN: If our places were reversed, I would expect to die.
CRUSHER: Your places would never be reversed. He would never forcibly abduct you or play games with your life. He would treat you with respect.
FINN: I've treated you with respect.
CRUSHER: You've scared the hell out of me, Finn. You've controlled me through fear just like you've tried to control this whole continent.
FINN: You haven't tasted real fear yet, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Is that the best you can do? Is fear the only weapon you have?
FINN: No, but it's a good one.
CRUSHER: You know what scares me the most, Finn? It scares me to think that you might win this fight and gain real power.
FINN: Doctor. I don't want you to fear me.

[Cavern]
RIKER: Generator's right over there.

[Side cave]
PICARD: Beverly, how dangerous would another ride through the inverter be to us?
CRUSHER: I don't know. But I don't want you to start thinking about
PICARD: Beverly, it is our obligation to think of escape.
CRUSHER: He's prepared to kill you.
PICARD: An excellent reason to escape. Do you think you've gained his confidence?
PICARD: Indeed you have. And more. This might prove to be an advantage to us.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, there are some things I want to tell you in case we don't get out of this.
PICARD: Have they found us?

[Cavern]
VOICES: Turn those circuits on. Sandor, come with me. Do we have any emergency power?
POLICE: Freeze! Hold it right there. Hands up. Hands up, let's go.

[Side cave]
CRUSHER: Finn!
CRUSHER: He's dead.
RIKER: You didn't have to kill him.
ALEXANA: As a prisoner he would have been a focus for violence as his followers tried to free him. Now, he's a martyr. But the death toll might go down, at least in the short term. It's an imperfect solution for an imperfect world.
PICARD: Riker!
CRUSHER: No more killing.
ALEXANA: Already another one to take his place. It never ends.
RIKER: He could have killed you. He didn't. Maybe the end begins with one boy putting down his gun.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I hear I owe my rescue to you.
WESLEY: I was just part of the team. It's good to have you back. Both of you, sir.
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. At your convenience.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43539.1. We have moved into orbit around Bre'el Four. With the assistance of the planet's emergency control center, we're investigating a potentially catastrophic threat to the population from a descending asteroidal moon.

[Bridge]
DATA: The satellite's trajectory is continuing to deteriorate, Captain. This orbit will put it within five hundred kilometers of the planet surface.
GARIN (screen): We're predicting the atmospheric drag will bring it down on the next orbit.
SCIENTIST (screen): Have you been able to find any explanation for this?
DATA: No, Doctor. It is a most unusual phenomenon.
PICARD: Won't the moon disintegrate prior to impact?
SCIENTIST (screen): No, it has a ferrous crystalline structure and it will be able to withstand tidal forces, Captain
RIKER: Could we blow it into pieces?
DATA: The total mass of the moon would remain the same, Commander, and the impact of thousands of fragments would spread destruction over an even wider area.
PICARD: How long before impact?
DATA: Twenty nine hours, sir. Projecting it somewhere on the western continent. That would destroy an area eight hundred kilometers in radius.
SCIENTIST (screen): That damage would be insignificant, Captain, compared to the seismic repercussions massive landquakes, and tsunami.
GARIN (screen): The force would raise a cloud of dust around the planet, leading to a significant temperature reduction. We could be looking at our own ice age.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, is there any way that the Enterprise could coax that satellite

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Back where it belongs?
LAFORGE: We'd need to apply a delta vee of about four kilometers per second. Even with warp power to the tractor beam, it would mean exceeding recommended impulse engine output by at least forty-seven percent. It'd be like

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): An ant pushing a tricycle. A slim chance at best.
RIKER: Given a choice between slim and none, I'll take slim any day.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, contact all ships in this sector to rendezvous and join us in relief efforts.
PICARD: We'll keep you informed of our progress. Picard out.
RIKER: Can you give us any more, Geordi?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Not without burning out the tractor beam emitter. The circuits are already beyond the thermal limit.
DATA: Delta vee is ninety two meters per second. The mass is too great. We are having an effect but it is negligible.
RIKER: What is that?
DATA: Unable to identify source.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Impulse engines passing safety limits. We're seconds

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): From automatic shutdown.
PICARD: Reduce engine power. Tractor beam off.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, what the hell do the sensors say?
WORF: The sound is not registering, Commander.
PICARD: Q!
Q: Red alert.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are no closer to finding a solution to the deteriorating orbit of the Bre'el Four moon, but with the arrival of Q, we now have a good idea of the cause.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Our options?
LAFORGE: We've done everything by the book and a little extra. We need more time or more power, and we're short on both. I'll take a look and see if there are any rules I haven't broken.
PICARD: Keep me advised.
RIKER: We know you're behind this, Q.
Q: These aren't my colors. And what are you blathering about, Riker?
PICARD: What kind of twisted pleasure does it give you to bring terror into their lives?
Q: Whose lives?
PICARD: The millions of people down there who are watching as their moon falls out of the sky.
Q: I haven't the vaguest idea what you're talking about and I have a much more serious problem. I'm no longer a member of the Continuum. My superiors have decided to punish me.
PICARD: And punish us as well, it would seem.
Q: They said I've spread chaos through the universe, and they've stripped me of all my powers. You don't believe me, do you? Do you think I would humiliate myself like this?
RIKER: If it served your purpose, yes.
Q: It's the truth. I stand before you defrocked. Condemned to be a member of this lowest of species. A normal, imperfect, lumpen human being.
TROI: They made you human as part of your punishment?
Q: No, it was my request. I could have chosen to exist as a Markoffian sea lizard or a Belzoidian flea. Anything I wished as long as it was mortal. And since I only had a fraction of a second to mull and I chose this and asked them to bring me here.
TROI: Why?
Q: Because in all the universe you're the closest thing I have to a friend, Jean-Luc.
DATA: Sir, he is reading as fully human.
Q: What, is there an echo in here?
TROI: I am sensing an emotional presence, Captain. I would normally describe it as being terrified.
Q: How rude.
PICARD: what is it you want, Q?
Q: Your compassion. All right, Sanctuary on this ship, dreary as it may sound to both of us.
PICARD: Return that moon to its orbit.
Q: I have no powers. Q the ordinary.
PICARD: Q the liar. Q the misanthrope.
Q: Q the miserable. Q the desperate. What must I do to convince you people?
WORF: Die.
Q: Oh, very clever, Worf. Eat any good books lately?
PICARD: Fine. You want to be treated as a human?
Q: Absolutely.
PICARD: All right. Mister Worf, throw him in the brig.
WORF: Delighted, Captain.
Q: You can't do this to me, Jean-Luc.
WORF: You will walk or I will carry you.
Q: Given the option, I'll walk. You've disappointed me, Jean-Luc. I'm very disappointed. Hey, I'm claustrophobic, I don't like it in here.

[Turbolift]
Q: It was a mistake. I never should have picked human. I knew it the minute I said it. To think of the future in this shell. Forced to cover myself with fabric because of some outdated human morality. To say nothing of being too hot or too cold, growing feeble with age, losing my hair, catching a disease, being ticklish, sneezing, having an itch, a pimple, bad breath. Having to bathe.
WORF: Too bad.

[Corridor]
Q: Klingon. I should have said Klingon. In my heart of hearts, I am a Klingon, Worf.
Q: Sorry. So you understand I could never survive in confinement. I mean, this is cruel and unusual punishment. The universe has been my back yard. As a fellow Klingon, if you would speak to the Captain on my behalf, I would be eternally grateful. which doesn't mean as much as it used to, I admit.
WORF: Be quiet! Or disappear back where you came from.
Q: I can't disappear any more than you could win a beauty contest.

[Brig]
Q: If I ask a very simple question, do you think you might be able to answer it without it troubling your intellect too much?
Q: Ready? Here goes. Would I permit you to lock me away if I still had all my powers?
WORF: You have fooled us too often, Q.
Q: Perspicacity incarnate. Please don't feel compelled now to tell me the story of the boy who cried Worf.
WORF: Computer, activate force field.
Q: I demand to be let out of here, immediately. Do you hear me? You will deactivate this cell immediately! Romulan!
Q: I should have said Romulan, that Klingon goat!

[Ready room]
PICARD: The question is, what sort of jaded game is he up to this time?
RIKER: Maybe he just wants a big laugh. He'll take Bre'el Four to the edge of disaster, and then pull the moon back.
PICARD: Or he may have nothing to do with it at all.
RIKER: You honestly think Q is telling the truth?
PICARD: Oh, I agree this is highly unlikely, but we have to proceed with our current dilemma as though Q is powerless to prevent it, don't we?
RIKER: And there he sits, and he watches us struggle.
PICARD: I don't see that we have any choice. Mister Worf, will you hail the Bre'el Four science station,
WORF (voiceover): They're standing by, Captain.
GARIN (screen): Yes, Captain Picard.
PICARD: I'm sorry, but I have to report that our first attempt to restore the moon to its proper orbit has failed.
GARIN (screen): We have less than twenty five hours before impact, Captain.
RIKER: Our Chief Engineer is working on ways to reinforce our tractor beam.
PICARD: So there is a hope, but if you have an evacuation plan
GARIN (screen): We have already started moving people from the coastal areas of the western continent.
PICARD: We are going to make another attempt shortly. Picard out.
RIKER: I've got to tell you Geordi is not at all optimistic.
PICARD: What the devil?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data?
DATA: Sensors are showing broadband emissions, including Berthold rays
RIKER: Lethal?
DATA: No, Commander. Overall exposure is less than seventy five rems. Very low intensity, more like a soft medical scan. I would speculate we are being probed.
PICARD: By whom?
DATA: The sensors cannot identify the point of origin. It seems to be coming from all around us.

[Brig]
Q: Ah, you've come to apologize. How nice. All's forgiven. No offense taken.
PICARD: Enough. Q, what exactly is going on.
Q: Well, how can I know what's going on? I've been in this dungeon of yours, alone, helpless, bored to tears.
PICARD: We have a moon inexplicably falling out of orbit, and just now this ship was probed with Berthold radiation.
Q: I wasn't aware of this. Truthfully, Jean-Luc. I have been entirely preoccupied by a most frightening experience of my own. A couple of hours ago, I realizing that my body was no longer functioning properly. I felt weak. I could no longer stand. The life was oozing out of me. I lost consciousness.
PICARD: You fell asleep.
Q: Terrifying. How can you stand it day after day?
PICARD: You get used to it.
Q: What other dangers await me? I'm not prepared for this. I need guidance.
PICARD: Q, I'm not going to play along with this. If you want to continue this charade, you can do it alone.
Q: Jean-Luc, wait! This is getting on my nerves, now that I have them. You have a moon in a deteriorating orbit. I've known moons through the universe. Big ones, small ones. I'm an expert. I could help you with this one, if you let me out of here.
PICARD: Q, there are millions of lives at risk. If you have the power to
Q: I don't have any powers. But I have the knowledge, locked up in this puny brain. You cannot afford to not take that advantage, can you?
PICARD: Mister Data, report to detention cell three.
DATA (voiceover): On my way, sir.
PICARD: Computer, remove the forcefield. If you are human, which I seriously doubt, you will have to work hard to earn our trust.
Q: I'm not worried about that, Jean-Luc. You only dislike me. There are others in the cosmos who truly despise me.
PICARD: Mister Data, you are hereby assigned to Q for the remainder of his stay. You will escort him to Mister La Forge in Engineering.
DATA: Aye, sir.
Q: Can I have a Starfleet uniform? What are you looking at?
DATA: I was considering the possibility that you are telling the truth, that you really are human.
Q: It's the ghastly truth, Mister Data. I can now stub my toe with the best of them.
DATA: An irony. It means that you have achieved in disgrace what I have always aspired to be.

[Corridor]
Q: Humans are such commonplace little creatures. They roam the galaxy looking for something, they know not what.
DATA: The human race has an enduring desire for knowledge, and for new opportunities to improve itself.
Q: There's certainly room for improvement, but the truth is, Data, they are a minor species in the grand scheme. Not worth your envy.
DATA: Oh, I do not feel envy.
Q: Well, that's good.
DATA: I feel nothing at all. That is part of my dilemma. I have the curiosity of humans, but there are questions I will never have the answer to. What is it like to laugh, or cry, or to experience any human emotions.
Q: Well, if you ask me, these human emotions are not what they're cracked up to be.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The moon will hit its perigee in ten hours. Now, we match its trajectory, increase emitter coolant rate so we can apply continuous warp-equivalent power nine to the tractor beam. We can push it for nearly seven hours and I think that just might do it. But, there's a problem.
DATA: The Enterprise will be dangerously close to the atmosphere.
LAFORGE: That's the problem.
Q: This is incredible.
LAFORGE: You see something here, Q?
Q: I think I just hurt my back. I'm feeling pain. I don't like it. What's the right thing to say? Ow?
DATA: Ow.
Q: Ow! I can't straighten up.
DATA: Medical assistance to Engineering.
LAFORGE: Q, I've got a few people down on Bre'el Four who are going to be hurt
Q: Yes, yes, your marvelous plan will not only tear the moon to pieces but your precious ship as well.
LAFORGE: You got a better idea?
Q: I would certainly begin by examining the cause and not the symptom.
LAFORGE: We've done that, Q, and there's no way to
Q: This is obviously the result of a large celestial object passing through at near right angles to the plane of the star system. Probably a black hole.
DATA: Can you recommend a way to counter the effect?
Q: Simple. Change the gravitational constant of the universe.
LAFORGE: What?
Q: Change the gravitational constant of the universe, thereby altering the mass of the asteroid.
LAFORGE: Redefine gravity? How am I supposed to do that?
Q: You just do it. Where's that Doctor, anyway?
DATA: Geordi is trying to say that changing the gravitational constant of the universe is beyond our capabilities.
Q: Oh. In that case, never mind.
Q: Ah, Doctor Crusher. I see Starfleet has shipped you back into exile.
DATA: Q says he has hurt his back.
CRUSHER: Ah ha. Well, if I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't believe it. According to this, he has classic back trauma. Muscle spasms.
Q: I've been under a lot of pressure lately. Family problems.
CRUSHER: Well. don't expect too much sympathy from me. You've been a pain in our backside often enough.
Q: Your bedside manner is admirable, Doctor. I'm sure your patients recover quickly just to get away from you.
LAFORGE: You know, this might work. We can't change the gravitational constant of the universe, but if we wrap a low level warp field around that moon, we could reduce its gravitational constant. Make it lighter so we can push it.
Q: Glad I could help. Ow. I think.
CRUSHER: Now what?
Q: There's something wrong with my stomach.
CRUSHER: It hurts?
Q: It's making noises.
CRUSHER: Maybe you're hungry.

[Ten Forward]
Q: I've never eaten before. What do I ask for?
DATA: The choice of meal is determined by individual taste.
Q: What do you like?
DATA: Although I do not require sustenance, I occasionally ingest semi-organic nutrient suspension in a silicon-based liquid medium.
Q: Is it good?
DATA: It would be more accurate to say it is good for me, as it lubricates my bio-functions.
Q: It doesn't sound very appealing. What else is there?
DATA: A wide variety of items. The replicator can make anything you desire.
Q: How do I know what I desire?
DATA: I have observed that the selection of food is often influenced by the mood of the person ordering.
Q: I'm in a dreadful mood. Get me something appropriate.
DATA: When Counselor Troi is unhappy, she usually eats something chocolate.
Q: Chocolate?
DATA: A chocolate sundae, for example. Although I do not speak from personal experience, I have seen it have a profound psychological impact.
Q: I'll have ten chocolate sundaes.
WAITRESS: Ten?
DATA: I've never seen anyone eat ten chocolate sundaes.
Q: I'm in a really bad mood, and since I've never eaten before, I should be very hungry.
Q: This is not a moment I've been looking forward to.
GUINAN: I hear they drummed you out of the Continuum.
Q: I like to think of it as a significant career change.
GUINAN: Just one of the boys, ay?
Q: One of the boys with an IQ of two thousand and five.
DATA: The Captain and many of the crew are not yet convinced he is truly human.
GUINAN: Really?
Q: Argh!
GUINAN: Seems human enough to me.
Q: This is a dangerous creature. You have no idea. Why Picard would make her a member of the crew and not me
GUINAN: It must be terribly frightening for you, to be totally defenseless after all of those centuries being omnipotent.
Q: I'm warning you. I still have friends in high places.
GUINAN: Frightening one race after the other, teasing them like frightened animals, and you enjoying every moment of your victims fears.
Q: From now on I'll do missionary work, okay?
DATA: That would be a most noble cause, Q.
GUINAN: You could learn a lot from this one.
Q: Sure, the robot who teaches the course in humanities.
DATA: I am an android, not a robot.
Q: I beg your pardon.
GUINAN: I'd enjoy that, and you'd better get used to it.
Q: What?
GUINAN: Begging. You're a pitiful excuse for a human. The only way you're going to survive is by the charity of others.
Q: I'm not hungry.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, sensors are picking up a cloud of energetic plasma. Bearing, three-four one mark two zero. Range, twelve kilometers and closing.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Energy patterns are reading as highly organized.
RIKER: A lifeform?
PICARD: Attempt to make contact, Mister Worf.
WORF: Receiving a signal, sir. On speaker.
RIKER: Computer, analyze signal
COMPUTER: Signal patterns indicate intelligence. Unable to derive necessary referents to establish translation matrix.

[Ten Forward]
VOICES: What's that? I don't know.
GUINAN: Calamarain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we're being hit by a field of energetic tachyons penetrating the hull. Location, deck ten, forward.
PICARD: Red alert.
RIKER: Geordi, increase power to shields.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Increasing power by twenty percent
WORF: No effect

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Increasing to forty percent.

[Bridge]
WORF: Still no effect

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Adjusting shield harmonics, diverting power to the forward grids.

[Bridge]
WORF: The added harmonics are blocking the tachyon field.

[Ten forward]
Q: Help me! Somebody, help me!
GUINAN: How the mighty have fallen.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have sustained light damage from an attack by an alien species known as the Calamarain. They apparently have a grievance with Q. No doubt one of many lifeforms that do.

[Observation lounge]
Q: The Calamarain are not very hospitable creatures. They exist as swirls of ionized gas.
PICARD: What did you do to them, Q?
Q: Nothing bizarre, nothing grotesque.
RIKER: You tormented them.
Q: A subjective term, Riker. One creature's torment, is another creature's delight. They simply have no sense of humor, a character flaw with which you can personally identify.
RIKER: I say we turn him over to them.
Q: Oh, I take it back. You do have a sense of humor. A dreadful one at that.
RIKER: I'm serious.
PICARD: Of course. You knew this would happen, didn't you?
Q: One can never anticipate the Calamarain. They're very intelligent, but very flighty.
PICARD: Yes, but you must have so many enemies. Certainly you knew that once you became mortal some of them might look you up.
Q: It had occurred to me.
PICARD: And for all your protestations of friendship, your real reason for being here is protection.
Q: You're very smart, Jean-Luc, but I know human beings. They're all sopping over with compassion and forgiveness. They can't wait to absolve almost any offense. It's an inherent weakness in the breed.
PICARD: On the contrary, it is a strength.
Q: You call it what you will, but I think you'll protect me even though I've tortured you now and again.
RIKER: Fighting off all the species you've insulted would be a full time mission. That's not the one I signed up for.
PICARD: Indeed. Human or not, I want no part of you. We will deposit you at the first starbase. Let them deal with you.
Q: But I could be a valuable member of the team. I'm human, I can learn.
DATA: He has provided important theoretical guidance for Geordi's analysis of the Bre'el satellite, Captain.
TROI: It seems you have an advocate, Q.
DATA: I am merely stating a fact, Counselor.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your status?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I've been putting together a program to extend the forward lobe of the warp field. The field coils

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Aren't designed to envelop such a large volume. But I'm attempting to modify their alignment parameters.
DATA (voiceover): Maintaining field integrity will be difficult, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure we can do it manually. The moon will come to its perigee in fourteen minutes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, you will escort Q to Engineering. You will assist Mister La Forge. Mister Worf, hail the Bre'el Four science station.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
Q: Picard thinks I can't cut it on his starship. I can do anything his little trained minions can do.
DATA: I do not perceive your skills to be in doubt, Q. The Captain is more concerned with your ability to interact successfully with his little trained minions.
DATA: Human interpersonal relationships are more complex. Your experiences may not have adequately prepared you.
Q: I'm not interested in human interpersonal relationships. I just want to prove to Picard that I'm indispensable.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Engineering. To function aboard a starship, or in any human activity, you must learn to form relationships.
Q: It's so hard.
DATA: And of more immediate importance is your ability to work within groups.
Q: I'm not good in groups. It's difficult working in a group when you're omnipotent.

[Bridge]
GARIN (screen): The tides reached ten meters on the last orbit. They are already beginning to swell again. We have a lot of frightened people down here, Captain.
PICARD: Your moon has begun moving toward its perigee. We're prepared to make our attempt.
SCIENTIST (screen): Our population has already taken shelter, but I'm afraid no shelter will be adequate if you fail. Especially for the people on the western continent.
GARIN (screen): Whatever the results, we know you've done your best, Picard. It's appreciated.
PICARD: We'll keep you advised, Doctor. Picard out.
WORF: Captain, sensors are picking up an increased energy output from the Calamarain.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The moon has reached its minimum orbital distance. It's time, Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We'll have to lower shields.
PICARD: Proceed. Mister Worf, keep a close eye on Q's friends out there.
WORF: Understood.

[Engineering]
Q: All right, everyone, this is what we're going to be doing.
LAFORGE: Q, everybody already knows what they're going to do, except for you, Now here's what I need.
Q: La Forge, obviously my knowledge and experience far exceed yours by about a billion times. So, if you'll just step aside gracefully.
LAFORGE: Q, your experience will be most valuable to me if you can manually control the field integrity.
Q: Don't be foolish. That would be a waste of my talents.
LAFORGE: Q, get to the controls or get the hell out of here. Data, you're my liaison to the Bridge. I'll need you with me.
Q: Who does he think he is, giving me orders.
DATA: Geordi thinks he is in command here, and he is correct.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Engineering, holding at station keeping, range six hundred and forty meters.
DATA (voiceover): Containment fields to flight tolerance.

[Engineering]
DATA: Warp core to ninety percent.
LAFORGE: Engage field coils. Tractor beam to stand by. Field output? Field output?
Q: Two seventeen.
LAFORGE: Impulse engines to full. Ready to engage tractor beam.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Lowering shields. Engage tractor beam.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Extending warp field forward.
PICARD (voiceover): Engineering, is that the forward limit?
DATA: Yes, Captain. We are unable to encompass the entire moon.
PICARD (voiceover): Do you recommend that we proceed?
Q: The two parts of the moon will have different inertial densities.
LAFORGE: Stand by, Captain. I can adjust the field symmetry to compensate.
Q: I doubt it.
LAFORGE: You don't know what this ship can do, Mister. Yes, Captain, I still believe it'll work. Increasing power and warp field and tractor beam.
Q: And if you're wrong, the moon will crumble due to subspace compression. Don't say I didn't warn you.
LAFORGE: Shut up, Q.
Q: I will not be spoken to in this manner!
LAFORGE: Data.
DATA: Q, I strongly suggest that you cooperate.
DATA: Inertial mass of the moon is decreasing to approximately two point five million metric tons.
LAFORGE: It's working. We can move it. Firing impulse engines.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Captain, the moon's trajectory has moved point three percent. Point-four percent.
WORF: Emergency! Shields up.
RIKER: Disengage tractor beam.
WORF: Calamarain attacking. Shields holding. Tachyon field repelled.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, the impact of the blast is pushing us into the upper atmosphere.

[Engineering]
DATA: Hull temperature rising. Two thousand degrees.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Two thousand five hundred degrees.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Moving to full impulse power.
WORF: Calamarain resuming attack.
WORF: They've overpowered the shields. Hull penetration, deck thirty six, Engineering.
RIKER: Geordi, can you direct any more power to the shields?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We need all the power we have to get out of the atmosphere, Commander.
LAFORGE: Try activating the structural integrity field.
LAFORGE: It's not working. Structural field harmonics on manual.
RIKER (voiceover): La Forge. Hull temperature falling. We're in the clear.
LAFORGE: Diverting power to forward sections now.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: That charge nearly knocked out his positronic net.
RIKER: What can you do for him?
LAFORGE: We can try to discharge and reset the motor pathways, recouple the autonomic nodes.
CRUSHER: There's overpressure in his fluidic systems. Thermal shock. If he was mortal, he'd be dead.
Q: Let us not overstate the matter here, Doctor. I'm mortal and I survived. The cheers are overwhelming.
PICARD: Q, you exceed your own standards of self-preoccupation. You have no concern for an officer who may have saved your life.
Q: He's strong, he'll survive.
LAFORGE: Osmotic pressure still rising. Maybe we can by-pass the flow regulator.
CRUSHER: It would be helpful if everybody just got out of here now.
PICARD: Stay with Q.
LAFORGE: We'll let you know as soon as there's anything to tell you.
RIKER: Geordi? The moon's trajectory?
LAFORGE: All we did was buy ourselves another orbit, at most. We can try again when the moon comes back to its perigee.
RIKER: And when we drop our shields, the Calamarains go after Q again.
LAFORGE: Commander, he's not worth it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
Q: You're right, of course. I am extraordinarily selfish. But it has served me so well in the past.
PICARD: It will not serve you here.
Q: Don't be so hard on me, Jean-Luc. You've been a mortal all your life. You know all about dying. I've never given it a second thought. Or a first one, for that matter. I could have been killed. If it hadn't been for Data and that one brief delay he created, I would have been gone. No more me. And no one would have missed me, would they? Data may have sacrificed himself for me. Why?
PICARD: That is his special nature. He learned the lessons of humanity well.
Q: When I ask myself if I would have done the same for him, And I am forced to answer no, I feel, I feel ashamed.
PICARD: Q, I'm not your father confessor. You will receive no absolution from me. You have brought nothing but pain and suffering to this crew. And I'm still not entirely convinced that all this isn't your latest attempt at a puerile joke.
Q: It is a joke. A joke on me. The joke of the universe. The king who would be man. As I learn more and more what it is to be human, I am more and more convinced that I would never make a good one. I don't have what it takes. Without my powers, I'm frightened of everything. I'm a coward, and I'm miserable, and I can't go on this way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's going to be all right.
LAFORGE: We're recalibrating his language circuits, so he can't talk yet.
Q: There are creatures in the universe who would consider you the ultimate achievement, android. No feelings, no emotions, no pain. And yet you covet those qualities of humanity. Believe me, you're missing nothing. But if it means anything to you, you're a better human than I.

[Turbolift]
Q: Where's the main shuttlebay?
COMPUTER: Main shuttlebay is located on deck four.
Q: Take me there.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, an unscheduled shuttle has just been launched.
PICARD: On main viewer. Hailing frequency.
WORF: Frequencies open.
PICARD: Shuttle occupant, identify yourself.
Q (screen): Don't try to talk me out of it, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Q, return to the ship immediately.
Q (screen): I just can't get used to following orders.
WORF: Captain, the plasma cloud is moving toward the shuttle.
Q (screen): It's easier this way. They won't bother you after I'm gone.
RIKER: Engineering, prepare to extend shields.
Q (screen): Please, don't fall back on your tired cliché of charging to the rescue just in the nick of time. I don't want to be rescued. My life as a human being has been a dismal failure. Perhaps my death will have a little dignity.
PICARD: Q, there is no dignity in this suicide.
Q (screen): Yes, I suppose you're right. Death of a coward, then. So be it. But as a human, I would have died of boredom.
PICARD: This goes against my better judgment. Transporter room three, lock on to shuttle one. Beam it back into it's bay.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
PICARD: It's a perfectly good shuttlecraft.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Captain, unable to transport. For some reason, I can't lock on to the shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Worf, are you sensing any sort of interference from the Calamarain?
WORF: No, sir, but they are still moving toward the shuttle.
RIKER: Geordi, extend shields around shuttle one.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Extending shields.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Commander, the shields are frozen.
RIKER (voiceover): Cause?
LAFORGE: Unknown.
RIKER (voiceover): Lock on tractor beam.
LAFORGE: Tractor beam is not functioning either.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What the hell is going on?

[Shuttlecraft]
Q2: Not bad, Q. Not great. But not bad.
Q: Q!
Q2: Sacrificing yourself for these humans? Do I detect a little selfless act?
Q: You flatter me. I was only trying to put a quick end to a miserable existence.
Q2: What a dreadful color.
Q: Yeah. What are you doing here?
Q2: I've been keeping track of you.
Q: I always felt you were in my corner.
Q2: Actually, I was the one who got you kicked out. You know, you're incorrigible, Q. A lost cause. I can't go to a single solar system without having to apologize for you, and I'm tired of it.
Q: I wasn't the one who misplaced the entire Deltived asteroid belt.
Q2: Hey, this isn't about me. I've got better places to be. But somebody had to keep an eye on you to make sure you still didn't find a way to cause trouble. Even as a member of this limited species.
Q: Well, I hope I've been entertaining you.
Q2: Barely. But I find these humans rather interesting. I'm beginning to understand what you see in them. After all the things that you've done, they're still intent on keeping you safe.
Q: A genetic weakness of the race.
Q2: And they're still at it. They just tried to beam you up, back, whatever it is they call it.
Q: Really?
Q2: I stopped them.
Q: Well, if the Calamarains hurry up and finish me off, we can get you back on your way.
Q2: Afraid I had to put them on hold too. You see, there's still this matter of the selfless act. You and I both know that the Calamarain would have eventually destroyed the Enterprise to get to you. And that's really why you left, right?
Q: It was a teeny bit selfless, wasn't it?
Q2: And there's my problem. See, I can't back to the Continuum and tell them you committed a selfless act just before the end. If I do there's going to be questions and explanations for centuries.
Q: I've learned my lesson, Q.
Q2: Remember who you're talking to. All knowing, all seeing. Fine, you got your powers back. Try and stay out of trouble.
Q: So they wanted to destroy me, did they?
Q: If you think I tormented you in the past, my little friends, wait until you see what I do with you now.
Q2: Q?
Q: I was just seeing if you were still watching.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the aliens have disappeared, and so has the shuttle.
RIKER: Scan the sector.
DATA: I have, sir.
PICARD: Well, I suppose that is the end of Q.
Q: Au contraire, mon capitaine! He's back!
Q: I'm forgiven. My brothers and sisters of the Continuum have taken me back. I'm immortal again. Omnipotent again.
RIKER: Swell.
Q: Don't fret, Riker. My good fortune is your good fortune.
RIKER: I don't need your fantasy women.
Q: Oh, you're so stolid, Commander. You weren't like that before the beard. Very well.
PICARD: Q!
Q: But I feel like celebrating.
PICARD: I don't.
Q: All right.
PICARD: All of it.
PICARD: Now, at the risk of being rude.
Q: Yes, once again I've overstayed my welcome. As a human, I was ill-equipped to thank you, but as myself you have my everlasting gratitude. Until next time. Ah, but before I go, there's a debt I wish to repay to my professor of the humanities. Data, I've decided to give you something very, very special.
DATA: If your intention is to make me human, Q.
Q: No, no, no, no, no, no. I would never curse you by making you human. Think of it as a going away present.
LAFORGE: Data? Data, why are you laughing?
DATA: I do not know. But it was a wonderful feeling.
WORF: Captain, Bre'el Four is hailing us.
PICARD: On screen, Lieutenant.
GARIN (screen): Captain Picard you've done it
PICARD: I'm sorry?
SCIENTIST (screen): The moon. It's back to its normal orbit. How ever you did it, thank you.
RIKER: Let's see it, Worf.
PICARD: Mister Data, your analysis?
DATA: The moon's altitude is fifty five thousand kilometers. Projected orbit is circular. There is no further danger to the planet.
PICARD: Ensign, set course for Station Nigala Four.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Perhaps there's a residue of humanity in Q after all. Ensign, en
Q (voiceover): Don't bet on it, Picard.

[Art class]
DATA: Captain, we have arrived at Tanuga Four. The away team has completed its survey of Doctor Apgar's work and is ready to return to the ship.
PICARD: Good. Please. And feel free to examine the work of the other students too.
DATA: Ensign Williams' striking style is heavily influenced by geometric constructivism.
DATA: Lieutenant Wright has effectively fused the incongruities of the surrealists with the irrationality of Dadaism.
DATA: Interesting.
PICARD: Oh, thank you. In what way?
DATA: While suggesting the free treatment of form usually attributed to Fauvism, this quite inappropriately attempts to juxtapose the disparate cubistic styles of Picasso and Leger. In addition, the use of color suggests a haphazard mélange of clashing styles. Furthermore, the unsettling overtones of proto-Vulcan influences
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: You are welcome, sir. If I can be of further assistance
PICARD: No! Thank you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43610.4. After completing a delivery of dicosilium to the Tanuga Four research station, our away team has received an update from Doctor Nel Apgar on his efforts to create Krieger Waves, a potentially valuable new power source.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Welcome back, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Where's Commander Riker?
LAFORGE: He's still on the station, sir. Doctor Apgar wanted to have a word with him.
PICARD: Any problems?
LAFORGE: Not with the scientific part of the mission, no, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave, now.
LAFORGE: I'm sure Commander Riker will be able to explain everything, Captain.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter Room to Engineering. I have a power drain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter Room! Is Commander Riker aboard?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Not yet, Captain. I'm having trouble clearing the signal

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter Room to Bridge.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: He's aboard.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Why do you sound so surprised, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: For a moment, we weren't sure you left the space station in time.
RIKER: In time for what?
O'BRIEN: It just exploded, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker has informed me that Doctor Apgar was the only one aboard the space station when it exploded. We remain in orbit investigating the accident.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've gone through the whole system, Captain. I can't find any malfunction in the transporter.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Nothing that would cause an explosion like that
PICARD: Why was there a power drain before transport?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I don't know, sir.
PICARD: I shall want an answer to that. I'm sure the Tanugans will too.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, the radiation and debris are consistent with an overload of the station's reactor core.
PICARD: Were there any indications of reactor core problems while you were on the station?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
PICARD: Number One? Mister La Forge indicated that this was not an entirely routine mission.
RIKER: It's a long story, sir, but I'm sure it doesn't have anything to do with this accident.
WORF: Captain, Chief Investigator Krag of the Tanugan security force requests permission to beam aboard.
PICARD: Granted. Will you escort him to the Bridge, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Perhaps you had tell me as much as possible prior to his arrival, Number One.

[Transporter room]
WORF: I'm Lieutenant Worf, head of ship's Security. I will take you to the Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Chief Investigator, welcome to the Enterprise. I'm Captain Picard. This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker.
KRAG: Commander Riker, I am here to take you into custody.
RIKER: Custody? On what charge?
KRAG: Suspicion of murder.
RIKER: Murder? Now wait a minute, you can't come on
PICARD: Chief Investigator, we are perfectly willing to cooperate with you, but
KRAG: Then release the prisoner for transportation to the planet.
PICARD: Let's continue this discussion in private. Number One, you have the Bridge.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Just what is the evidence against my officer?
KRAG: Two witnesses have come forward to describe Commander Riker's threats against Doctor Apgar.
PICARD: Threats? I'm aware there was a private conversation between them.
KRAG: Apparently, it was much more than just a private conversation, but he will have a chance to prove his innocence.
PICARD: Investigator, in our system of jurisprudence, a man is innocent until proved guilty.
KRAG: In ours, he is guilty until he is proved innocent, and you are under our jurisdiction. If I understand the Federation regulations on these matters, and I just happened to look them up before I
PICARD: I am aware of Federation regulations, sir, and if you investigate them further, you will find the captain decides if extradition is warranted.
KRAG: Are you saying it is not?
PICARD: I'm saying, if there is sufficient cause to warrant a trial, I will release my officer into your custody.
KRAG: Would you say you're close to your First Officer, Captain?
PICARD: That question is irrelevant here.
KRAG: Really, Captain, you cannot believe that. How can I expect a fair and impartial decision?
PICARD: I must protect the rights of my officer.
KRAG: I can appreciate that, but you will do it on the planet, not here. After all, what if you were suddenly to decide to leave this star system?
PICARD: You have my word as a Starfleet officer that I will not.
KRAG: Unacceptable. Captain, you will turn him over to me for interrogation now.
PICARD: Interrogate him here.
KRAG: We must recreate, step by step, moment by moment, all the events leading to the explosion. We will require access to all the witnesses, as well as the data from the lab's ground computers. It would be impossible to accomplish here.
PICARD: Perhaps not. Mister Data, will you report to my Ready Room?
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: We may be able to assist you in recreating the events.
PICARD: Commander Data, this is Chief Investigator Krag. Commander, by taking testimony from the away team and from witnesses provided by the Investigator, would it be possible to program the Holodeck to recreate what happened on the science station?
DATA: It would require construction and design specifications, full orthographic representations of the Krieger equipment, as well as visual representations and voice analyzes of the persons involved. But it is possible.
KRAG: Very well. Arrangements will be made to provide you with all available information. I shall return shortly with our witnesses.
PICARD: Commander, will you escort Investigator Krag to Transporter Room Three.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign Crusher, Mister La Forge, we are going to recreate the research station here on the holodeck. I want you to work with Commander Data on the preparations. In addition, Commander La Forge and Commander Riker, I want you to give the computer detailed depositions of everything you saw, everything you heard while you were on board. Counselor, I want you to assist me during this inquiry. My decision about the extradition will be based upon the evidence presented during these recreations.
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you?
PICARD: Under these circumstances, Number One, I think that would be inappropriate. Second officer's log, Stardate 43611.6. Programming of the holodeck has taken eighteen hours eleven minutes, and is now complete. All participants have entered their depositions. Technical schematics and complete records from the lab's ground computers, as well as Doctor Apgar's personal logs, have been included. The recreations will have a nominal eight point seven percent margin of error.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
PICARD: Is there anything you'd like to say before we begin, Number One?
RIKER: Just this. I'm not a murderer. I went to the Tanugan lab as an official representative of Starfleet. I acted accordingly. I was there to evaluate Doctor Apgar's progress in the development of a Krieger Wave converter. That's all I was interested in. Computer. Load deposition program Riker one. Run the simulation.
RIKER: Doctor Apgar, I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge.
APGAR: My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we?
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would care for some refreshments.
APGAR: My wife, Manua.
RIKER: A pleasure to meet you, Mrs. Apgar. If you're prepared to get started, so are we.
APGAR: Of course I'm prepared.
RIKER: All right, why don't you give me the overview of your research while Mister La Forge and your assistant take a look at the experimental data.
APGAR: Fine, whatever. I must say, Commander, I resent this early arrival. Starfleet will get its converter. I've had a few setbacks, that's all.
RIKER: We're not here to pressure you, Doctor. We just want an update on your progress.
APGAR: Tayna, show the Commander's assistant whatever he wants to see. Give him full access to our records.
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me. Our lambda field generator is on the planet since it requires a minimum of five thousand kilometers for the field to collimate.
MANUA: Really, darling, you're being rude. After all, Commander Riker is willing to sit through all your prattle about Krieger Waves. Let's have a drink, Commander, and we'll hear all about Krieger Waves.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]
RIKER: To your success, Doctor.
MANUA: And the rewards that come with it.
APGAR: Riker, what is Starfleet doing here anyway? My delivery wasn't scheduled for another three months.
RIKER: We were in this sector on another mission, and since you had already contacted Starfleet about additional dicosilium, it seemed like a good opportunity.
MANUA: How interesting. Tell us about this other mission.
RIKER: It's just a study of a proto-star cloud. The Enterprise'll be back tomorrow.
APGAR: The Enterprise just left you here?
RIKER: We didn't want to inconvenience you. We've made arrangements for quarters on the planet.
MANUA: I won't hear of such a thing. Commander, I insist you and Mister La Forge stay with us.
APGAR: I hardly
MANUA: I know that you would prefer to be alone with your very important work but I, for one, am glad for the company.
MANUA: Good. I must apologize for my husband's lack of social graces. He may be one of the great scientific minds in the galaxy, but he does come up a bit short in other areas.
KRAG: Wait a moment. Stop.
PICARD: Computer, freeze program.
KRAG: Then it's your testimony that it was Mrs. Apgar's idea for you to spend the night aboard the space station.
RIKER: It's my testimony and it's the truth.
PICARD: Resume program.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]
MANUA: Our guest quarters aren't luxurious but I've tried to make this room warm and inviting.
RIKER: I'll be very comfortable, thank you. Good night.
MANUA: The environmental controls are over here.
RIKER: I'm sure I'll find everything I need.
MANUA: And the door shuts by touching this panel.
RIKER: Mrs. Apgar.
MANUA: This is my sanctuary. Privacy is very important on a small station. I'm left alone here. Often for hours.
RIKER: It's late. I am tired.
MANUA: Are you still tired, Commander?
RIKER: Ma'am, excuse me. I really think that you ought to leave.
APGAR: I knew I'd find you with him. Did you think I didn't notice how you looked at him? I'm not the fool you take me for.
RIKER: Doctor.
RIKER: Doctor, believe me. This has been a terrible mistake.
APGAR: You won't get away with this. I'll see to it. I swear I will, Riker.
PICARD: Freeze program.
RIKER: I didn't see Doctor Apgar until the following morning when he asked to see me alone. Commander La Forge returned to the Enterprise. Resume program.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
APGAR: I suppose if I make a formal complaint, your report on my work won't be very good.
RIKER: Doctor, this is going to have no impact on my report. It was a misunderstanding of the worst kind. We could straighten the entire thing out if you would ask Mrs. Apgar to join us.
APGAR: My wife and my assistant have transported down to the planet. What are you going to put in your report, Riker? That there is no justification for all the extra dicosilium I've requested? That is why they sent you early, isn't it?
RIKER: Doctor, I
APGAR: I can explain why I needed it. They have no idea what my problems are. There are explanations for all of it.
RIKER: I don't need explanations.
APGAR: Then we have nothing further to say to each other.
RIKER: I'll tell my Captain to expect your grievance.
APGAR: Do that.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport.
RIKER: Freeze program. Then I returned to the Enterprise.
KRAG: And you have nothing further to add, Commander? Nothing about firing a phaser?
RIKER: I never fired a phaser on the science station.
KRAG: That's odd. Very odd. Captain Picard, is it not true that your sensors detected an energy drain just as Commander Riker began transport?
PICARD: That's correct.
KRAG: Have you been able to explain it?
PICARD: Not to my knowledge.
KRAG: We have. Our readings are quite clear about it. Information retrieved from the lab's ground computers indicate that a focused energy pulse was fired just as Commander Riker began transport. Furthermore, by analyzing the angle and trajectory, we have determined that it came from the very spot Commander Riker was standing. So then, will you allow me to show you my recreation of the end of this story? A speculation, if you will. Computer, run hypothetical Krag one.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport.
KRAG: Freeze program. Three seconds later, the station exploded.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The Tanugans are right. Something was fired at the reactor core just before transport.
DATA: The energy signature would seem to indicate a phaser-like blast.
WESLEY: Well, it wasn't the commander's phaser. It couldn't have been. There's another answer. We're just not seeing it.
DATA: Was there anything else in the lab capable of creating this kind of energy discharge?
LAFORGE: Not that I saw. Besides, how do you account for the fact that it came from Commander's Riker's exact position. Damn it, I should have stayed with him.
WORF: Commander, sensors indicate a radiation burst on deck thirty nine, outside cargo bay twelve.
DATA: Source?
WORF: Unknown, sir.
DATA: Computer, identify type of radiation.
COMPUTER: Emission is not consistent with any known radiation.
WORF: It is subsiding, sir.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: What kind of radiation could do this? Make any sense to you?
LAFORGE: I don't recognize it. Not even the main deflector puts out that kind of spillage.
WESLEY: Where would it be coming from?
LAFORGE: I don't know, Wes, but whatever it is, it's capable of putting a hole in solid duranium.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
KRAG: In a sense we have already met Mrs. Apgar, so we shall dispense with introductions.
PICARD: Mrs. Apgar, you understand the purpose of this hearing?
TROI: We understand how difficult this will be for you. If you need a recess, please, don't hesitate to ask.
PICARD: Would you like to make a statement before we begin?
MANUA: No. I just know he did it. He killed my husband.
KRAG: Computer, load Manua simulation one.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]
KRAG: Run program.
MANUA: If you greet them with such a long face they're going to assume something is wrong with the experiment.
APGAR: I just need time. A little more time.
MANUA: I'm certain they'll give you the time you need if you just show a little charm.
APGAR: You do that so much better than I do. Manua, someday I'll be able to reward you for all your patience. I'll get you everything you ever dreamed of.
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. Now go on, I'll be right in.
RIKER (voiceover): Doctor Apgar?

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge.
APGAR (voiceover): My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we?
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would like some refreshment?
APGAR: My wife, Manua.
RIKER: It's a pleasure to meet you, Manua.
APGAR: I'm anxious to get started.
RIKER: If you wish.
APGAR: I must say I resent your early arrival, Commander I have much work to do.
RIKER: Doctor, I'll do everything in my power to make this as painless as possible for both of us. Do you assist your husband in his work?
MANUA: Oh, dear, no. I'm no scientist.
RIKER: No, neither am I.
MANUA: But I find this all fascinating, don't you?
RIKER: Mister La Forge, why don't you take a look at the doctor's experimental data. Later, you can give me an overview.
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter. These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all.
RIKER: Doctor, I'm not trying to put any pressure on you. I'm sure my report will only underscore the need for continued support of your research.
APGAR: Tayna, I'll call up the records. Show the Commander's assistant whatever he wants to see.
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me? Our field generator is on the planet, since it requires a minimum of five thousand kilometers for the field to collimate.
MANUA: Darling, let Tayna take care of that. I'm sure Commander Riker wants to hear how close you are to a breakthrough. I'll pour the two of you a drink and you can talk all about Krieger waves.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]
MANUA: Commander.
APGAR: To success.
RIKER: Success.
APGAR: Well, in a way, I suppose it's good that you're early. Manua's right, it gives me a chance to show you the progress we've been making.
RIKER: I'd appreciate it if Commander La Forge and I could stay here until the Enterprise returns.
MANUA: It's a little inconvenient.
RIKER: It would help to accelerate the process.
APGAR: Well, if you wish, Commander. Now, where shall I start? Well, first of all, you should know that I am very close to being able to collimate a Krieger field.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]
MANUA: Our guest quarters are very modest.
RIKER: Very charming. It has your touch.
MANUA: The station is small, and we don't often have guests. I use this as my sanctuary.
RIKER: Who do you need sanctuary from?
MANUA: The environmental controls are here.
MANUA: Commander, please. It's late and I'm tired.
RIKER: A man more interested in Krieger waves than in a lovely woman like you. How is that possible?
MANUA: My husband is one of the great minds in the galaxy and we love each other very much.
MANUA: Please don't.
RIKER: It must be very lonely. A princess in a very high tower.
MANUA: Please, my husband will be looking for me.
RIKER: Your sanctuary, remember?
MANUA: Commander, don't, please!
RIKER: She's lying! That never happened.
PICARD: Freeze program.
MANUA: Please.
RIKER: Captain, you know I would never act like that.
PICARD: Commander Riker!
RIKER: This isn't me. I wasn't the one who closed the door. I didn't proposition her and I certainly didn't try to rape her. Why are you doing this?
MANUA: It's exactly what happened.
TROI: Will, come on, sit down.
KRAG: Resume program.
MANUA: Please.
APGAR: I knew you'd try this, Riker. Do you think I didn't notice how you looked at her? I'm not the fool you take me for.
APGAR: You won't get away with this. Your career is over. I'll see to it. I swear I will, Riker.
RIKER: If you report this, you'll be making a terrible mistake, Doctor. A terrible mistake.
KRAG: Freeze program.
MANUA: Your career was safe. He was a scientist. In another day some fascinating bit of technical trivia would have distracted him. He would have forgotten about you and his complaint to Starfleet. Excuse me.
PICARD: We'll, um, we'll take a short recess.
RIKER: Why would she lie like that? She was lying. You could tell.
TROI: Will, I didn't sense any deception from her.
RIKER: Then you think that I?
TROI: No! No, of course not. I know you. You don't have to convince me of anything.
RIKER: We can't both be telling the truth.
TROI: It is the truth as each of you remembers it.
RIKER: But her version puts a noose around my neck.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is healing beautifully. I think you can work on strengthening these muscles again.
WORF (voiceover): Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate. Radiation emissions are indicated in Sickbay.
DATA: It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty nine. Highly focused, very powerful but of unknown origin.
LAFORGE: If this should happen in the engine core or the anti-matter containment tanks, we'll be in big trouble, Captain.
PICARD: Do you have any theories?
WESLEY: Captain, Data's noticed something that's too strange to be a coincidence.
DATA: The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station exploded yesterday at almost four times that interval.
WESLEY: There's a point zero zero one four second variance we haven't been able to explain yet.
RIKER: So you're saying there's a connection between the radiation bursts and the explosion?
DATA: We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this time, Commander.
CRUSHER: If they're right, we should be able to predict the next event.
LAFORGE: We're expecting it in just over five hours.
PICARD: Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If we haven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leave orbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately.
WESLEY: We'll figure it out for you, Commander.

[Holodeck]
TAYNA: After the fight, Doctor Apgar came to find me he was very upset.
KRAG: And he told you what happened?
TAYNA: Yes, he told me everything that happened.
KRAG: Based on Tayna's deposition, we have recreated the incident in Commander Riker's quarters as Doctor Apgar described it to her. Computer.
PICARD: Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness to this incident.
KRAG: But Doctor Apgar is dead. Her statement is admissible according Tanugan law and I insist you consider it.
PICARD: Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh it accordingly.
KRAG: Computer, run Tayna simulation three.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]
APGAR: I knew I'd find the two of you together. Do you think I didn't notice how you were looking at each other? I'm not the fool you take me for.
APGAR: I'm going to report this, Riker. You can count on that.
RIKER: You're a dead man, Apgar. A dead man.
KRAG: Freeze program. And then Doctor Apgar came to find you?
TAYNA: Yes.
KRAG: Run Tayna simulation four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
APGAR: I want you to take Manua and beam down to Tanuga immediately.
TAYNA: But Doctor, if he threatened you, you shouldn't stay
APGAR: I'm not leaving him here alone. He's capable of anything. I've got to protect our work.
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities.
APGAR: No. I'll take care of that.
TAYNA: Doctor, be careful.
APGAR: It'll be all right. Go on.
KRAG: Freeze program. Then what happened?
TAYNA: I left the station with Manua. The next day, when I heard the station had exploded, I knew what had happened. He'd killed Doctor Apgar.
KRAG: Thank you. You are excused.
KRAG: Captain, I have established motive, method and opportunity. In any court in the Federation, that is sufficient to warrant the extradition of the accused. I await your decision forthwith.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you?
TROI: We both know Will's innocent.
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition.
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence?
PICARD: No.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, I believe we have found the source of the radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge?
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: As you know, Captain, we are looking for a phenomenon that reoccurs every five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds.
PICARD: The interval between radiation bursts.
DATA: We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface.
LAFORGE: It's the field generator that Apgar during in his research. When it's fully charged, it automatically emits an energy pulse and then takes five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds to recharge itself.
WESLEY: It must have been left on after the explosion of the lab.
PICARD: But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way?
DATA: It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator.
LAFORGE: But we knew that somehow it was related to our radiation bursts and then the pieces started just falling together.
DATA: We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science station exploded, sir.
WESLEY: And we also know who killed Doctor Apgar.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
PICARD: Chief Inspector, we've watched the events replayed over and over again and I am impressed, and admittedly dismayed by the body of evidence against Commander Riker. But isn't it remarkable that with all the witnesses, all the different points of view of the events aboard the space station, we haven't seen what really happened?
KRAG: I do not understand.
PICARD: Allow me, with the help of Mister La Forge, to explain. Computer, load Manua program one, time index fourteen four one. Play program.
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter. These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all.
PICARD: Freeze. Mrs. Apgar, this was from your deposition. It would seem to suggest that your husband had failed to create Krieger waves.
MANUA: Yes, but he was very close to a breakthrough.
PICARD: He said he needed more time. He was upset by our early arrival. But in fact I maintain he already had made that breakthrough and that he was lying to us.
KRAG: On what basis?
LAFORGE: For the last several hours, the Enterprise has been experiencing unusual radiation bursts. We've identified them as Krieger waves.
TAYNA: Krieger waves? But that's impossible. From where?
LAFORGE: From right here. Inside the holodeck.
PICARD: We recreated your science lab in every conceivable detail. Essentially, what was in the original lab is here.
LAFORGE: Including the Krieger wave converter that Doctor Apgar claimed didn't work. Except it does work.
PICARD: Your field generator on the planet surface has been sending out harmless energy charges, which this facsimile has been converting into Krieger waves.
RIKER: But the holodeck can't create anything dangerous.
LAFORGE: Well, it didn't. When you get down to basics, the converter is nothing more than a complex series of mirrors and reflective coils. The energy from the field generator down on the planet simply reflects off of elements in the convertor which turns it into highly focused Krieger waves.
PICARD: And those same waves have been randomly striking different areas of our ship as we orbit the planet and our angle to the generator changes.
KRAG: Why would Apgar lie about his success?
PICARD: Computer, run Manua program one, time code, fourteen three eight.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]
APGAR: Manua, someday I'll be able reward you for all your patience. I'll get you everything you ever dreamed of.
MANUA: I have all the reward I need.
PICARD: Freeze program. Run Riker program two, time code, sixteen one zero.
RIKER: To your success, doctor.
MANUA: And the rewards that come with it.
PICARD: Freeze.
MANUA: I never said that.
PICARD: Nevertheless, it seems clear that your husband was motivated to earn the kind of rewards that pleased you, Mrs. Apgar.
MANUA: What's wrong with that?
TROI: Well, he wouldn't have earned great profits from his dealings with Starfleet. We were only interested in a new power source.
LAFORGE: But if he could turn this into a weapon it would be worth a lot to the Romulans, the Ferengi and a few others. Now Doctor Apgar had been ordering extra dicosilium for months. That's a pretty good indication that he was trying to create larger reflective coils.
PICARD: And when the away team arrived early he must have been worried that Starfleet was becoming suspicious. He needed more time to finish his work. Apgar said that each of the three versions. No doubt, he was afraid that Commander Riker might learn the truth and cut off his support prematurely. Discovering Commander Riker with his wife didn't help matters. I submit that he decided to murder Commander Riker.
MANUA: Ridiculous.
PICARD: Is it? Computer, run Tayna program four, time index eighteen one four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities.
APGAR: No, I'll take care of that.
PICARD: Freeze.
PICARD: Tayna, exactly is Apgar doing here?
TAYNA: Activating the generator on the planet.
PICARD: Why would he do that?
TAYNA: Maybe he was going to work on the converter, I don't know.
PICARD: Maybe he was already thinking ahead to his next confrontation with Commander Riker. Computer, play Riker program four, time index twenty four one.
APGAR: What are you going to put in your report, Riker? That there's no justification for all the extra dicosilium I've requested? That is why they sent you early, isn't it?
RIKER: Doctor.
APGAR: I can explain why I needed it. They have no idea what my problems are. There are explanations for all of it.
RIKER: I don't need explanations.
PICARD: Freeze. To Apgar, this must have seemed as though Commander Riker were confirming his worst fears. And I believe it was now that he decided finally to kill him.
KRAG: You forget, Picard, we know the energy pulse which blew up the reactor originated from Commander Riker's position, not Doctor Apgar's.
LAFORGE: We are hypothesizing that Doctor Apgar energized the converter at the moment of Commander Riker's beam-out, hoping to make his death look like a transporter accident. But something went wrong. The energy pulse hit the transporter beam and reflected back to the reactor, which caused the explosion.
KRAG: An interesting hypothesis. But impossible to prove.
LAFORGE: Not really. We know that the field generator on the planet has been repeating a discharge ever since the explosion. The intervals are like clockwork, except the explosion occurred point zero zero one four seconds after the initial discharge. And the only explanation for that variance is the time it would take the energy pulse to bounce back from the transporter beam to the reactor.
PICARD: We've arranged a demonstration to illustrate. Mister La Forge, I think it's about time, isn't it?
LAFORGE: Computer, load program, La Forge one. Coordinate auto-engage time sequence. The next discharge from the field generator is scheduled to occur in just a few moments, and we've aligned the holodeck program to recreate the final events as Commander Riker described them. Only this time our facsimile will automatically process the energy charge from the planet and reflect it just as the original convertor did before the explosion.
PICARD: If we're correct, we'll know it instantly.
COMPUTER: Auto-engage time sequence synchronized.
APGAR: Then we have nothing further to say to each other.
RIKER: I'll tell my Captain to expect your grievance.
APGAR: Do that.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave, now.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport.

[Holodeck]
PICARD: Doctor Apgar killed himself during his attempt to kill Commander Riker.
KRAG: Based on this new evidence, I withdraw my request for Commander Riker's extradition. Commander, my apologies.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, have we any further business in the Tanuga system?
RIKER: Not that I know of. I'd be more than willing to put it behind me.
PICARD: Then perhaps you would do me the pleasure of getting this ship underway.
RIKER: With pleasure, sir. Ensign Crusher, set course for Emila Two, warp three.
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir.
RIKER: Engage.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: All right. Try this.
WORF: What is it?
GUINAN: Just try it.
GUINAN: You see? It's an Earth drink. Prune juice.
WORF: A warrior's drink.
GUINAN: You know, you're always drinking alone. It wouldn't hurt you to seek out a little companionship.
WORF: I would require a Klingon woman for companionship. Earth females are too fragile.
GUINAN: Not all of them. There are a few on this ship that would find you tame.
WORF: Impossible.
GUINAN: You never know till you try.
WORF: Then I will never know.
GUINAN: Coward.
WORF: I was merely concerned for the safety of my crewmates.
GUINAN: Drink your prune juice.
RIKER (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, report to the Bridge.
WORF: On my way.
GUINAN: No!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Sensors are reading gravimetric fluctuations, Captain. Most unusual ones.
RIKER: Unusual in what way? Specify?
DATA: Nothing I have seen before.
PICARD: Is it a wormhole?
DATA: Yes and no. Like a time displacement, but it does not have a discernible event horizon.
WESLEY: Sir, navigational subsystems are unable to give coordinates on the object.
DATA: Confirmed. The phenomenon does not have a definable center or outer edge.
RIKER: Are you saying it is and yet it isn't there?
DATA: I do not have sufficient information to make an analysis as yet, Commander. The dynamics of the radiation patterns
WORF: Captain! Something's happening. A new change in sensor readings.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Scanning sensors)
PICARD: Lieutenant, what are their sensor readings? Is that an enemy vessel?
TASHA: I'm getting too much interference, Captain.

[Ten Forward]
CREWMAN (voiceover): Now hear this. Fleet formation briefing in main war room at fifteen hundred hours. Doctor Joshua Campbell, report to station ops. Ensign Toms, please forward combat information. Ensign Thomas to CIC.
GUINAN: This isn't right. It's changed.

[Bridge]
TASHA: It's clearing now, Captain. Definitely Federation starship. Accessing registry.
RIKER: Looks like they had a rough ride.
TASHA: NCC one seven oh one C. USS Enterprise. Military log, Combat date 43625.2. While investigating an unusual radiation anomaly, the Enterprise has encountered what could almost be called a ghost from its own past, the Enterprise-C, the immediate predecessor to this battleship.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors confirm design and specifications, Captain. Analysis of hull and engine materials conform to engineering patterns and methods of that time period.
WESLEY: But that cruiser was destroyed with all hands over twenty years ago.
DATA: Presumed destroyed. The Enterprise C was last seen near the Klingon outpost Narendra Three exactly twenty two years, three months and four days ago.
RIKER: And now they're here.
PICARD: Has it been adrift for all those years, or has it has traveled through time?
DATA: It is a possibility, Captain. If that hypothesis is correct, the phenomenon we just encountered would be a temporal rift in space.
PICARD: A rift?
DATA: Possibly the formation of a Kerr loop from superstring material. It would require high-energy interactions occurring in the vicinity for such a structure to be formed. The rift is certainly not stable, Captain. It could collapse at any time.
TASHA: Captain. I'm able to scan the interior of the ship now, sir. Heavy damage to warp field nacelles and hull bearing struts. Internal space frame is... Life-signs, Captain! Readings are sporadic. It looks like they have massive casualties, but some are still alive.
RIKER: Bridge to Sickbay. Emergency teams, stand by transporter rooms.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Understood.
PICARD: Belay that order, Doctor.
RIKER: Respectfully, if I may suggest regardless of where they came from, they are here now and they need our help.
PICARD: Commander, if that ship has traveled into the future, we could be dealing with variables that will alter the flow of our history.
TASHA: Enterprise C is sending out a distress call, sir. Audio only.
GARRETT (voiceover): This is Captain Garrett of the Starship Enterprise, to any Federation ship. We have been attacked by Romulan warships and require immediate assistance. We've lost warp drive. Life support is failing.
RIKER: There's no record of the Romulans ever assaulting the Enterprise C.
TASHA: Voice message has ended, Captain. I'm only receiving their automated distress signal now.
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation, of a Federation starship. Standby to receive emergency teams. Commander, we will handle this one step at a time. Stabilize their power systems and tend to their injured, and avoid all discussions of where and when they are.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Lieutenant.
WESLEY: Captain, message coming in from Starfleet monitor stations. Klingon battlecruisers headed towards this sector.
PICARD: Battle alert, Mister Crusher. Condition Yellow.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. All decks report Condition Yellow.

[1701-C Bridge]
RIKER: Captain Garrett?
GARRETT: Yes.
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Our emergency teams are on board your ship. Doctor?
CRUSHER: The rest of the bridge crew is dead. She has a bad fracture and has serious internal injuries. I'm going to have to get her back to the Enterprise.
GARRETT: To where?
RIKER: We'll explain that later.
GARRETT: You'll explain now, Commander.
RIKER: We're from a Federation starship. We answered your distress call. Your ship is in good hands, but we need to get you to our Sickbay.
GARRETT: Very well.
CRUSHER: Crusher to transporter room. Two to beam directly to Sickbay.
CREWMAN: Stand by for transport.
LAFORGE: It's pretty bad, Commander. Looks like they were in a hell of a fight.
RIKER: If you can't stabilize the life support, we're going to have to evacuate the ship.
LAFORGE: I think we can do it. I'll have to get to Engineering though. La Forge to damage control team alpha. Meet me on Engineering level three.
TASHA: Commander.
CASTILLO: Thanks.
RIKER: Commander William Riker.
CASTILLO: Lieutenant Castillo, helmsman.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: Away team reporting in, sir.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Data. Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER (screen): We've stabilized life support. Mister La Forge is working on restoring the main power couplings, but that'll take time. It's a real mess down here, sir.
PICARD: Survivors?
RIKER (screen): One hundred twenty five.
PICARD: Recommendation?
RIKER: I'd hate to have to scrap her. Starfleet could certainly use another ship, even if she is old.
PICARD: Agreed. But we can't stay in this area too long. You have nine hours. If you can get her underway by then, we'll escort her back to Starbase one oh five. If not, we'll evacuate the survivors and destroy the ship.
RIKER (screen): Understood, sir.
PICARD: Keep me posted, Picard out.
PICARD: Guinan?
GUINAN: We need to talk. Somehow this, this is all wrong. This is not the way it's supposed to be.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You must have some idea how things have changed.
GUINAN: I look at things, I look at people, and they just don't feel right.
PICARD: What things? What people?
GUINAN: You. Your uniform. The Bridge.
PICARD: What's the matter with the Bridge?
GUINAN: It's not right.
PICARD: It's the same Bridge. Nothing has changed.
GUINAN: I know that. I also know it's wrong.
PICARD: What else?
GUINAN: Families. There should be children on this ship.
PICARD: What? Children on the Enterprise? Guinan, we're at war.
GUINAN: No, we're not. At least, we're not supposed to be. This is not a ship of war. This a ship of peace.
PICARD: What you're suggesting
GUINAN: I'm not suggesting. That ship from the past is not supposed to be here. It's got to go back.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Run a full electrolyte report. Boost the level of tricordrazine. Try to relax.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Doctor Selar, report to pathology ward stat. Doctor Selar, report to pathology ward stat.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
GARRETT: Rachel Garrett. How's my ship?
PICARD: The support systems are being restored. We're continuing repairs.
GARRETT: Where did you come from? We weren't picking up any other Federation ships in this sector.
PICARD: What's the last thing you remember?
GARRETT: We were answering the distress signal.
PICARD: Distress signal?
GARRETT: You must have heard it. From the Klingon outpost, Narendra Three. But you didn't, did you? This Sickbay, I've never seen like it, even on a starbase. And your uniform. What ship is this, Captain?
CRUSHER: Please try to be still.
GARRETT: I must insist. What ship?
PICARD: You are aboard the Enterprise, Captain. One seven oh one D. You have come twenty two years into the future.
GARRETT: Twenty two years. Does my crew know yet?
PICARD: No.
GARRETT: I must tell them. I owe them that.
PICARD: If you wish, I can see that they're informed.
GARRETT: Is there some reason they should not be told?
PICARD: I am concerned that if you return to your own time with knowledge of the future
GARRETT: Return to the battle? We barely escaped with our lives. If we returned, we'd be destroyed.
PICARD: Have you any idea how this happened?
GARRETT: There was a fierce volley of photon torpedoes. We were hit. A bright light, and then here.
PICARD: It is possible that this exchange of fire was the catalyst for the formation of a temporal rift. History has no record of your battle with the Romulans.
GARRETT: We were responding to a distress call from the Klingon outpost on Narendra Three. The Romulans were attacking it. We engaged them, but there were four warbirds.
PICARD: The Narendra Three outpost was destroyed. It is regrettable that you did not succeed. A Federation starship rescuing a Klingon outpost might have averted twenty years of war.

[1701C Bridge]
CASTILLO: I just can't quite make myself believe it. Twenty two years!
TASHA: I'm reading forty percent on forward shields. What do you have on aft?
CASTILLO: Forty percent.
TASHA: That won't cut it. Commander, advise Lieutenant La Forge that shields are below minimum.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
CASTILLO: We'll never see our homes again. Our families.
TASHA: How do you know your family's not still alive?
CASTILLO: You're right, I don't. But imagine coming home after twenty-two years. Would I even recognize them?
TASHA: What are the stats on main phaser banks?
CASTILLO: Emitters available, sixty percent forward, fifty two percent aft.
TASHA: Good. Let's take a look at the torpedo launchers.
CASTILLO: I guess I'm lucky to be alive at all.
TASHA: You may not like the future. It's been a long war. The Federation has lost more than half of Starfleet to the Klingons.
CASTILLO: We were negotiating a peace treaty when I left.
TASHA: A lot of changes, Lieutenant. A lot of changes.
CASTILLO: When we get a break, maybe you could fill me in on some of them.
TASHA: Photon banks are depleted. Auxiliary fusion generators are down.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that the temporal rift is symmetrical, Captain.
PICARD: Then what would happen if the Enterprise C were to fly back through it?
DATA: Back, sir? The Enterprise C would emerge in her own time period at almost the same instant she left.
PICARD: Right in the middle of the battle with the Romulans.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Is there any possibility she could survive?
DATA: None, sir.
PICARD: Then sending them back would be a death sentence.

[Corridor]
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Lieutenant Barrett to communications.
TASHA: She was the first Galaxy Class warship built by the Federation. Forty two decks. Capable of transporting over six thousand troops.
CASTILLO: How long have you been on board?
TASHA: Four years. Straight out of the Academy. I was lucky to get the Enterprise.
CASTILLO: Yeah, me too. I mean, my Enterprise.

[Sickbay]
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Triage team to main shuttlebay.
GARRETT: Lieutenant, how's the ship?
CASTILLO: We've restored minimal shields and the forward phaser banks. Still no photon launchers or warp drive.
GARRETT: Concentrate on the weapon systems. From what Captain Picard told me, the Federation can use all the help it can get.
TASHA: And soon. Our sensors have picked up Klingon warships in this sector, Captain.
GARRETT: Why wasn't I informed, Mister Castillo?
CASTILLO: Captain, you shouldn't
GARRETT: As senior officer, I want you to be my liaison to the Enterprise-D. Coordinate with Tactical.
TASHA: That's me, Captain.
CRUSHER: Where do you think you're going?
GARRETT: I'm resuming my duties, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Captain, you need at least another twenty four hours.
GARRETT: Nonsense. Doctors always over-protect their patients.
CRUSHER: And captains always push themselves too hard.
GARRETT: Doctor, my ship and crew need me now. Twenty four hours might as well be twenty four years.

[War room]
PICARD: I need more.
GUINAN: There is no more. I wish there were. I wish I could prove it. But I can't.
PICARD: Then I can't ask them to go back.
GUINAN: You've got to.
PICARD: Guinan, they will die moments after they return. How can I ask them to sacrifice themselves based solely on your intuition?
GUINAN: I don't know. But I do know that this is a mistake. Every fiber in my being says this is a mistake. I can't explain it to myself so I can't explain it to you. I only know that I'm right.
PICARD: Who is to say that this history is any less proper than the other?
GUINAN: I suppose I am.
PICARD: Not good enough, damn it. Not good enough. I will not ask them to die.
GUINAN: Forty billion people have already died. This war's not supposed to be happening. You've got to send those people back to correct this.
PICARD: And what is to guarantee that if they go back they will succeed? Every instinct tells me this is wrong, it is dangerous, it is futile.
GUINAN: We've known each other a long time. You have never known me to impose myself on anyone or take a stance based on trivial or whimsical perceptions. This time line must not be allowed to continue. Now, I've told you what you must do. You have only your trust in me to help you decide to do it.

[Ten Forward]
TASHA: Deflector shield technology has advanced considerably during the war. Our heat dissipation rates are probably double those of the Enterprise-C, which means we can hang in a firefight a lot longer. Guinan?
GUINAN: Have you ordered yet, Tasha?
TASHA: No, not yet. Is anything wrong?
GUINAN: Not a thing. What can I get for you?
TASHA: Just a couple of TKLs. We're in a hurry. Oh, this is, Lieutenant Castillo.
TASHA: First time for everything.
CASTILLO: First time?
TASHA: It's just that I've never seen anything bother her before.
CASTILLO: What's a TKL?
TASHA: Standard rations. Food replicators are on minimum power, so everything else is diverted to defensive systems. So where was I?
CASTILLO: You've told me more about tactical in an hour than I learned my last year in the Academy.
TASHA: You're going to need it, Lieutenant.
CASTILLO: Hey, I've known you a whole day now, Lieutenant. I won't salute if you won't. What did she call you? Tasha?
TASHA: Yeah.
CASTILLO: Most everybody just calls me Castillo. My mother calls me Richard.
TASHA: Okay, Castillo.
CASTILLO: No, I think maybe I'd like it better if you called me Richard.
TASHA: Richard.
PICARD (voiceover): This is the Captain. Senior officers will report to my Ready room immediately.
TASHA: So much for lunch.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Captain, are you suggesting that we let them return and attempt to complete their mission?
PICARD: I am, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Based on Guinan's intuition?
RIKER: That won't accomplish anything, sir. There's no way they can save Narendra Three.
TASHA: Captain Garrett says there were four Romulan warbirds. The Enterprise-C would be outmanned and outgunned.
LAFORGE: Unless we were to re-arm them with modern
PICARD: We can't do that. If we send that ship back with new technology we will be altering the past.
RIKER: But that's what you're talking about anyway, isn't it? Altering the past.
PICARD: We're talking about restoring the past.
LAFORGE: How could Guinan know that history has been altered if she's been altered along with the rest of us?
DATA: Perhaps her species has a perception that goes beyond linear time.
PICARD: There are many things about her species we can't easily explained. Yet it is very possible she is correct. A ship from the past has traveled through time. How can we know what effect those events will have on the present. Indeed, we shall never know for certain, if Guinan is correct. But I have decided the consequences of that possibility are too grave to ignore. Dismissed.
RIKER: Sir, if you'd like my opinion
PICARD: I think I'm aware of your opinion, Commander. This is a briefing. I'm not seeking your consent.
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, you'd be asking one hundred and twenty five people to die a meaningless death.
DATA: Not necessarily meaningless, Commander. The Klingons regard honor above all else. If the crew of the Enterprise-C had died fighting for the survival of a Klingon outpost, it would be considered a meaningful act of honor by the Klingon Empire.
PICARD: Even their deaths might have prevented this war. If the Enterprise-C returns to the battle and its mission is a success, history will be irrevocably changed. This time line will cease to exist and a new future will have been created. I've considered the alternatives. I'll go with Guinan's recommendation. Dismissed.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: If she's right, we may not even be in an alternate time line.
LAFORGE: Yeah, who knows if we're dead or alive.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Engineering. Is Engineering your destination as well?
TASHA: What? Oh, deck six. Sorry.
DATA: If I interpret your facial expressions correctly, you are preoccupied with something unpleasant.
TASHA: No, I was just thinking about a lot of things. I've been working with one of the officers on the Enterprise-C. He's nice. I like him. I'm worried about what's going to happen to him.
DATA: We may never know what happens. If they succeed, we will not even realize that these events occurred.

[1701-C Bridge]
CASTILLO: Shields are up to seventy two percent. That's better.
TASHA: Good.
GARRETT: Do you believe this Guinan?
PICARD: I discovered long ago that she has a special wisdom. I've learned to trust it. I could arrange for you to speak with her if you wish.
GARRETT: Captain, I would be lying to you if I told you there was a chance in hell of coming out of this alive. Why doesn't your ship come back with us? The Romulans would be no match for your weaponry.
PICARD: I can't do that.
GARRETT: No, I suppose not. You don't belong in our time any more than we belong in yours. To be honest, Picard, a significant number of my crewmembers have expressed a desire to return, even knowing the odds. Some because they can't bear to live without their loved ones, some because they don't like the idea of slipping out in the middle of a fight. But I have told them that in the here and now, the Federation needs another ship against the Klingons. And we'd better get used to being in the here and now.
PICARD: But if you go back, it could be a great deal more helpful. The war is going very badly for the Federation, far worse than is generally known. Starfleet Command believes defeat is inevitable. Within six months we may have no choice but to surrender.
GARRETT: And you're saying all this may be a result of our arrival here?
PICARD: One more ship will make no difference in the here and now. But twenty two years ago, one ship could have stopped this war before it started.
GARRETT: Mister Castillo.
CASTILLO: Yes, Captain?
GARRETT: Inform the crew we're going back.
CASTILLO: Yes, Captain.
GARRETT: The Romulans will get a good fight. We'll make it one for the history books.
PICARD: I know you will, Captain. Lieutenant Yar?
TASHA: Permission to remain for a moment, sir.
PICARD: Granted.
GARRETT: Transporter room, Captain Picard is ready to return to his ship.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
TASHA: I just wanted to say good luck.
CASTILLO: I'll try to put some of your tactical briefing to good use when we get back.
TASHA: Your ship has much more maneuverability than the Romulan counterparts of that era. Actually, if you could just isolate... You'll do fine.
CASTILLO: If you get back to Earth and you see a man, say, in his late fifties taking a hard look across a crowded room. Hey, you never know.
TASHA: Goodbye, Lieutenant.
GARRETT: Red Alert! Full power to shields.
TASHA: Shields are up. Functioning.
CASTILLO: Initiating evasive maneuvers. Gamma sequence.
GARRETT: Ready phasers. Enterprise-D

[1701D Bridge]
GARRETT (voiceover): Has your captain returned safely?
RIKER: Acknowledged. Captain Picard is safely aboard. Fire phasers.
DATA: Firing phasers.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: One Klingon bird of prey off the starboard bow.

[1701C Bridge]
TASHA: Firing phasers.
GARRETT: Load torpedo bays.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: The Klingon vessel has recloaked, sir. I have no readings.
PICARD: Captain Garrett, damage report.

[1701C Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain Garrett.
TASHA (voiceover): This is Lieutenant Yar, sir. Captain Garrett is dead.

[War room]
CASTILLO: I'm prepared to lead the Enterprise back myself, Captain Picard.
RIKER: Sir, Lieutenant Castillo is the last surviving senior officer. He will have limited support from Ops, no Tactical, reduced staff in Engineering.
CASTILLO: I have good people willing to do their best.
RIKER: Certainly, history never meant for this ship to go into battle without her captain.
CASTILLO: I can't speak to that point, sir, but I can get us back to where we're supposed to be. I believe that's what Captain Garrett would want me to do.
DATA (voiceover): Commander Data to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
DATA (voiceover): Sir, sensors are showing additional instability in the time rift. Possibly the result of the battle with the Klingons.
PICARD: Any signs of other Klingon vessels?
DATA (voiceover): No, sir.
TASHA: Our coordinates have been transmitted to the Klingon command, sir. We mustn't remain here.
CASTILLO: Sir, it is my intention to return, unless you order me not to.
PICARD: How soon can your ship be ready?
CASTILLO: We sustained moderate damage in the attack. I think we can get underway in a few hours.
PICARD: Make it so. We'll give you cover.

[Transporter room]
CASTILLO: One to beam to the Enterprise-C. We keep saying goodbye, don't we?
TASHA: I wish there was more time.
CASTILLO: More time. I think we have all the time we can handle as it is.
CASTILLO: Lieutenant.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Can I get you something, Tasha?
TASHA: Guinan, I have to know something. What happens to me in the other time line?
GUINAN: I don't have alternate biographies of the crew. As I said to the captain, it's just a feeling.
TASHA: But there's something more when you look at me, isn't there? I can see it in your eyes, Guinan. We've known each other too long.
GUINAN: We weren't meant to know each other at all. At least, that's what I sense when I look at you. Tasha, you're not supposed to be here.
TASHA: Where am I supposed to be?
GUINAN: Dead.
TASHA: Do you know how?
GUINAN: No. But I do know it was an empty death. A death without purpose.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Yes, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Captain, I request a transfer to the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: For what reason?
TASHA: They need someone at Tactical.
PICARD: We need you here.
TASHA: I'm not supposed to be here, sir.
PICARD: Sit down, Lieutenant. What did she say to you?
TASHA: I don't belong here, sir. I'm supposed to be dead.
PICARD: She felt it necessary to reveal that to you?
TASHA: I felt it was necessary.
PICARD: I see. You realize that it is very possible the Enterprise-C will fail. We will continue in this time line in which case your life, hopefully, will continue for a long while.
TASHA: I know how important it is that they don't fail, Captain. That's why I'm requesting this transfer.
PICARD: You don't belong on that ship, Lieutenant.
TASHA: No, Captain Garrett belongs on that ship. But she's dead. And I think there's a certain logic in this request.
PICARD: There's no logic in this at all. Whether they succeed or not, the Enterprise-C will be destroyed.
TASHA: But Captain, at least with someone at Tactical, they will have a chance to defend themselves well. It may be a matter of seconds or minutes, but those could be the minutes that change history. Guinan says I died a senseless death in the other time line. I didn't like the sound of that, Captain. I've always known the risks that come with a Starfleet uniform. If I'm to die in one, I'd like my death to count for something.
PICARD: Lieutenant. Permission granted.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[1701C Bridge]
CASTILLO: I'm showing phaser banks up to seventy percent efficiency. We've got an hour left. Let's see if we can get them up to ninety.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
CASTILLO: Parker, you've got Ops. Fredericks, take the conn.
TASHA: I'll handle Tactical. Lieutenant Tasha Yar reporting for duty, sir.
CASTILLO: You're not part of my crew.
TASHA: I am now. Captain Picard approved my request for transfer.
CASTILLO: This isn't a joke, Tasha. We're going back in the rift, into battle. We're not coming back.
TASHA: I know the mission. These are my orders, Lieutenant.
CASTILLO: But I don't want you here.
TASHA: You need me here. Show me someone on your crew who can do the job better than I can.
CASTILLO: Welcome aboard. Take your station, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Aye, sir. Military log, supplemental. Lieutenant Tasha Yar has transferred to the Enterprise-C, where she has taken over tactical duties. Meanwhile, our long range scanners have picked up Klingon battle cruisers on an intercept course.

[1701D Bridge]
RIKER: Number and type of ships, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Three K'vort class battlecruisers, sir.
PICARD: They're not even troubling to cloak themselves.
RIKER: They shouldn't be so confident after the pasting we gave them on Archer Four.
PICARD: Attention all hands. As you know, we could outrun the Klingon vessels, but we must protect the Enterprise-C until she enters the temporal rift. And we must succeed. Let's make sure history never forgets the name Enterprise. Picard out.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Shields are holding, sir.
PICARD: Hold fire. Mister Crusher, come about to course one four eight zero zero three.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Photon torpedoes ready.
PICARD: Dispersal pattern, sierra. And fire!
DATA: One enemy target hit, sir. Moderate damage to their forward shields. Our shields are still holding. Minor damage to secondary hull.
PICARD: Course one four eight. Correction, course one seven zero mark zero one four.
WESLEY: Sir, one of the ships is breaking off and going towards the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, keep us within two hundred kilometers of the Enterprise-C.
WESLEY: Coming to two one seven mark one one five. Increasing to two thirds impulse.
RIKER: Damage control teams, deck fourteen.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engineering to bridge. Starboard power coupling is down. Containment field generator three is damaged. Attempting to bypass.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If we lose antimatter containment
PICARD: Acknowledged, La Forge.
WESLEY: Sir, the Klingons are flanking us, attempting to draw us away from the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: Hold course, Mister Crusher. Continual fire, all phasers.
DATA: One enemy target destroyed, sir.
PICARD: Damage report.
RIKER: Heavy casualties in the secondary hull. Navigational sensor array inoperative.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Antimatter containment fields are failing. If I can't stabilize them, I'll have to dump the reactor core or she'll blow!

[Bridge]
DATA: Shields buckling, Captain. They will not
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't hold the antimatter containment fields. Initiating emergency shutdown!
LAFORGE: Coolant leak! Bridge, we have a coolant leak in the engine core! I can't shut it down. I estimate two minutes to a warp core breach!
LAFORGE: Go! Go! Go!

[1701D Bridge]
PICARD: How long until the Enterprise-C enters the rift?
DATA: Fifty two seconds, sir.
PICARD: All remaining power to the defense systems.
DATA: Power couplings severed in forward phaser banks. Attempting to bypass. Controls not responding.
KLINGON (voiceover): Federation ship Enterprise. Surrender and prepare to be boarded.
PICARD: That will be the day.
PICARD: Report, Lieutenant.
WORF: Readings fluctuated momentarily. It appeared to be a ship, but then it vanished.
DATA: The phenomenon is closing in on itself, Captain.
PICARD: Very well. Prepare a class one sensor probe. We'll leave it behind to monitor the final closure. Mister Crusher, lay in a course for Archer Four.
GUINAN (voiceover): Captain, this is Guinan. Is everything all right up there?
PICARD: Guinan? Yes everything's fine. Is something wrong?

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: No. No, everything's fine. Sorry to bother you.
GUINAN: Geordi, tell me about Tasha Yar.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43657.0 While Commander Riker is away on personal leave, the Enterprise has traveled to sector three nine six to begin charting the Selebi Asteroid Belt.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: He sent for you too?
TROI: Yes. He was very mysterious.
WESLEY: Does you have any idea what this is about?
LAFORGE: Something happened at that cybernetics conference. Since he's come back he's spent every off duty minute in that lab.
TROI: It's not like Data to be so secretive.
WESLEY: And cautious. He kept the lab locked every minute.
LAFORGE: Now how would you know that? Ah ha.
DATA: Oh, you are early. Just a moment please.

[Laboratory]
DATA: You may enter now.
LAFORGE: Come on, Data, what is this?
WESLEY: Yeah, Data. what's going on?
DATA: I have invited you here to meet someone.
DATA: This is Lal. Lal, say hello to Counselor Deanna Troi
LAL: Hello Counselor Deanna Troi.
TROI: How do you do, Lal?
LAL: I am functioning within normal parameters.
DATA: Lal, this is Geordi La Forge.
LAL: Purpose for exterior drapings, Father?
WESLEY: Father?
DATA: It is an accepted custom that we wear clothing.
WESLEY: Data, it called you Father.
DATA: Yes, Wesley. Lal is my child.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I have just been advised of a highly unusual project undertaken by Commander Data.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Lal has a positronic brain one very similar to my own. I began programming it at the cybernetics conference.
LAFORGE: But nobody's ever been able to do that, Data, at least not since you were programmed.
DATA: True, but here was a new submicron matrix transfer technology introduced at the conference which I discovered could be used to lay down complex neural net pathways.
WESLEY: So you did a transfer from your brain into Lal's.
DATA: Exactly, Wesley. I realized for the first time it was possible to continue Doctor Soong's work. My initial transfers produced very encouraging results, so I brought Lal's brain back with me.
PICARD: Data, I would like to have been consulted.
DATA: I have not observed anyone else on board consulting you about their procreation, Captain.
TROI: Why didn't you give it a more human look, Data?
DATA: I decided to allow my child to choose its own sex and appearance.
PICARD: Commander Data, at your convenience, I would like to talk to you in my Ready room. Counselor?

[Corridor]
PICARD: I insist we do whatever we can to discourage the perception of this new android as a child. It is not a child. It is an invention, albeit an extraordinary one.
TROI: Why should biology rather than technology determine whether it is a child? Data has created an offspring. A new life out of his own being. To me, that suggests a child. If he wishes to call Lal his child, then who are we to argue?
PICARD: Well, if he must, but I fail to understand how a five foot android with heuristic learning systems and the strength of a ten men can be called a child.
TROI: You've never been a parent.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What you have done will have serious ramifications. I am truly dismayed that you told no one of what you were doing.
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I did not anticipate your objections. Do you wish me to deactivate Lal?
PICARD: It's a life, Data. It can't be activated and deactivated simply. This is a most stupendous undertaking. Have you any idea what will happen when Starfleet learns about this?
DATA: I have followed all of Starfleet regulations to the best of my ability. I expected they would be pleased.
PICARD: Well, you have taken on quite a responsibility, Data.
DATA: To prepare, I have scanned all available literature on parenting. There seems to be much confusion on this issue. One traditional doctrine insists, spare the rod and spoil the child, suggesting a punitive approach. While another more liberal attitude would allow the child enormous freedom.
PICARD: Data
DATA: And what Klingons do to their children
PICARD: Data! I'm not talking about parenting. I am talking about the extraordinary consequences of creating new life.
DATA: Does that not describe becoming a parent, sir?
PICARD: Data, you are seeking to achieve what only your own creator has been able to achieve. To make another functioning, sentient, android. To make another Data.
DATA: That is why I must attempt this, sir. I have observed that in most species, there is a primal instinct to perpetuate themselves. Until now, I have been the last of my kind. If I were to be damaged or destroyed, I would be lost forever. But if I am successful with the creation of Lal, my continuance is assured. I understand the risk, sir. and I am prepared to accept the responsibility.

[Corridor]
LAL: Gender female.
TROI: That's right, Lal. Just like me.
LAL: Gender male.
DATA: Correct.
LAL: I am gender neuter. Inadequate.
DATA: That is why you must choose a gender, Lal, to complete your appearance.
LAL: What are criteria?
DATA: Access your data bank on sexuality, level two. That will define the parameters.
TROI: Whatever you choose will be yours for your lifetime. It's a decision that will affect how people interrelate with you.
LAL: I choose your sex and appearance.
DATA: No, Lal. That would be confusing. We are taking you to the holodeck to show you several thousand composites I have programmed. You may choose from them.
TROI: Several thousand?
DATA: This is a big decision

[Holodeck]
DATA: Counselor? Lal has narrowed the choices to four. Would you like to see?
TROI: Yes, yes, of course, Data.
DATA: Computer, Lal gender sequence finalists. Begin. An Andorian female.
TROI: Interesting. You'll be the only one on board the Enterprise, Lal.
DATA: That could make socialization more difficult. A human male.
TROI: Very attractive. There's no problem with socialization here.
DATA: A human female.
TROI: I like her.
DATA: A Klingon male.
TROI: A friend for Worf. They're all very interesting. Do you have a favorite?
LAL: Yes. I have chosen.

[Laboratory]
DATA: I have completed the assembly of the replicated anatomy. I was able to provide Lal with more realistic skin and eye color than my own.
TROI: Congratulations, Data. It's a girl.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: This is home, Lal.
LAL: Home. Place of residence. Social unit formed by a family living together.
DATA: Yes. We are a family, Lal. Chair. To sit in. Sit. Good. Painting.
LAL: Painting. Colors produced on a surface by applying a pigment.
DATA: Yes. I will teach you to recognize the artistry in paintings.
LAL: Soft.
DATA: Yes, very good, Lal. You have correctly processed the sense of touch. There are many fascinating experiences I wish to share with you.
LAL: Painting.
DATA: No, that is a flower, Lal. Inhale.
LAL: Smell!
DATA: Yes.
LAL: Show me more, Father. Second officer's science log, supplemental. Training in social skills at the most elementary level has begun. Lal is progressing very slowly but is not deterred by early setbacks. While motor coordination has improved twelve percent, reflexes still need to develop. Visual comprehension is especially difficult for Lal. Translating her vast data banks into recognizable applications may improve with additional transfers. She is also learning to supplement her innate android behavior with simulated human responses. And it is interesting to note that as I observe Lal learning about her world, I share in her experience, almost as though I am learning things over again.

[Laboratory]
DATA: The transfer itself is fairly simple. Each neural pathway in my brain is duplicated precisely in hers. Theoretically, the duplicate brains should be able to store and process the same information but until all of the transfers are complete, we will not know for certain.
WESLEY: What does Lal do while you're on duty?
DATA: She studies in our quarters. She requires very little supervision. Lal is quite self-sufficient.
WESLEY: Have you considered sending her to school?
DATA: She already has access to the sum of human knowledge from me.
WESLEY: Data, she could learn a lot by being with kids her own age.
DATA: She is only two weeks old.
WESLEY: Okay, close to her own age.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher to Ensign Crusher. Aren't you supposed to be getting a hair cut, Wesley?
WESLEY: I'm on my way. Parents. Nothing personal.
DATA: Lal, the third crosslink transfer series is complete.
LAL: Father? What is my purpose?
DATA: Purpose?
LAL: My function, my reason for being?
DATA: That is a complex question, Lal. I can only begin to answer by telling you that our function is to contribute in a positive way to the world in which we live.
LAL: Why am I me instead of someone else?
DATA: Because you are my child.
LAL: Where did I come from?
DATA: These questions suggest that we have made a successful transfer of the heuristic associative pathways. You will now begin to process information on logic, esthetics, metaphysics, and epistemology. You are truly becoming sentient, Lal.
LAL: How?
DATA: By developing the awareness to examine and question your perceptions.
LAL: Why do we have two hands? Why not three or four? Why is the sky black? Why do
DATA: Tomorrow will be your first day of school, Lal.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I assure you, Admiral, there's no better guide into this life for Lal than Data. He's doing an excellent job.
HAFTEL (screen): We all have enormous admiration for what Commander Data has already achieved, but we have superior facilities and personnel here at Galor Four. A starship is hardly a proper setting
PICARD: This starship's mission is to seek out new life and that is exactly what Commander Data is doing, under my guidance.
HAFTEL (screen): We all want what's best for the new android.
PICARD: As do I. I would be willing to consider releasing Lal and Data to you so that he may continue his work with her.
HAFTEL (screen): His presence would undoubtedly retard the new android's progress.
PICARD: Admiral, to you, Lal is a new android. But to Data, she's his child.
HAFTEL (screen): His child?
PICARD: Yes, Admiral. It may not be easy for you and I to see her that way, but he does. And I respect that. They will remain here for now.
HAFTEL (screen): Starfleet's policy on research is clear. You're making your stand on very uncertain ground. I do hope it doesn't fall out from under you. Haftel out.

[Teacher's office]
BALLARD: She achieved a very high score on a test of academic achievement.
DATA: A perfect score?
BALLARD: Yes, which is why we started her out with the older children. But Lal couldn't understand the nuances of how they related to each other.
DATA: I see.
BALLARD: We decided the best thing to do would be to put her with younger children.
DATA: That would seem to be reasonable.
BALLARD: It isn't working out that way.
BALLARD: The children were afraid of her.

[Turbolift]
LAL: Father, what is the significance of laughter?
DATA: It is a human physiological response to humor.
LAL: Then judging from their laughter, the children at school found my remarks humorous. So without understanding humor, I have somehow mastered it.
DATA: Deck fifteen. Lal.
LAL: Yes, Father?
DATA: The children were not laughing with you, they were laughing at you.
LAL: Explain.
DATA: One is meant kindly, the other is not.
LAL: Why would they wish to be unkind?
DATA: Because you are different. Differences sometimes scare people. I have learned that some of them use humor to hide their fear.
LAL: I do not want to be different.

[Crusher's office]
DATA: Doctor? I require your advice as a successful parent.
CRUSHER: Well, thank you, Data. I'd like to think I was. Well, please sit down. How's Lal?
DATA: Lal is realizing she is not the same as other children.
CRUSHER: Is it lonely for her?
DATA: She does not feel the emotion of loneliness, but she can observe how isolated she is from the others. She wishes to be more like them. I do not know how to help her. Lal is passing into sentience. It is perhaps the most difficult stage of her development.
CRUSHER: When Wesley was growing up, he was an extraordinarily bright boy, but he had a hard time making friends. I think the other children were a little intimidated by him.
DATA: That is precisely what happened to Lal in school. How did you help him?
CRUSHER: Well, first I went back to my own childhood and remembered how painful it was for me. Because I remember a time when I wasn't very popular either. And when I told that to Wesley, it made him feel a little better. He knew I understood what he was going through.
DATA: I have not told Lal how difficult it was for me to assimilate. I did not wish it to discourage her. Perhaps this was an error of judgment.
CRUSHER: You didn't have any one experienced to help you through sentience. She at least has you. Just help her realize that she's not alone, and be there to nurture her when she needs love and attention.
DATA: I can give her attention, Doctor. But I am incapable of giving her love.
CRUSHER: Now why do I find that so hard to believe?

[Picard's quarters]
WORF (voiceover): Captain, incoming signal. Starfleet priority one. Admiral Haftel.
PICARD: On my monitor, Lieutenant. Admiral.
HAFTEL (screen): Captain Picard, I hope I didn't disturb you.
PICARD: Not at all.
HAFTEL (screen): I have discussed my concerns with Starfleet Command. You are to hold your position until I join you. Then I shall personally review the android's development.
PICARD: Understood.
HAFTEL (screen): I should advise you, Captain, that if I'm not satisfied with what I see, I am empowered to take the android back with me. Haftel out.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are holding position pending the arrival of Admiral Haftel from Starfleet Research. Commander Data is completing his final neural transfers to the android he has named Lal, which I have learned, in the language Hindi means beloved.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Hello, Data.
DATA: Guinan.
GUINAN: Lal, how are you?
LAL: I am functioning within normal. I am fine, thank you.
GUINAN: Good.
DATA: Guinan, Lal needs to observe human behavior.
GUINAN: She's in the right place for it.
DATA: And for this opportunity, she is willing to provide services to assist you.
LAL: Father says I would learn a great deal from working with someone as old as you.
GUINAN: You're hired. The most important part about working some place like this is the art listening. I have some expertise, so I shall teach you.
DATA: That would be most beneficial.
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred and twelve known beverages.
GUINAN: What did you say?
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred
GUINAN: I've?
DATA: You have used a verbal contraction.
GUINAN: You said I've instead of I have.
DATA: It is a skill my program has never mastered.
LAL: Then I will desist.
DATA: No. You have exceeded my abilities. I do not object, but I do not understand how this has occurred.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Commander Data. Please report to my Ready room.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
DATA: I am certain the Admiral is anxious to meet Lal. I have been sending him regular status reports on her development.
PICARD: His visit is not just an inspection of Lal's progress. He has expressed a concern for her environment.
DATA: Her environment, sir?
PICARD: He believes the Daystrom annex on Galor Four would be more suitable.
DATA: Then he wishes to relocate us?
PICARD: Not you, Data. Just her.
DATA: I would not be in favor of that, sir. There are many things that she can learn only from me. My lifetime of experiences. The mistakes I have made and what I have learned from them.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, Commander Riker's shuttle has just returned.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Will you advise Commander Riker I will meet with him in one hour. Picard out. The Admiral is taking the position that Lal's development should be overseen by the most experienced personnel.
DATA: Then he is questioning my ability as a parent.
PICARD: In a manner of speaking.
DATA: Does the Admiral have children?
PICARD: Yes, I believe he does, Data. Why?
DATA: I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent when his first child was born.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: You see?
LAL: What are they doing?
GUINAN: It's called flirting.
LAL: They seem to be communicating telepathically.
GUINAN: They're both thinking the same thing, if that's what you mean.
LAL: Guinan, is the joining of hands a symbolic act for humans?
GUINAN: It shows affection. Humans like to touch each other. They start with the hands, and go from there.
LAL: He's biting that female.
GUINAN: No, he's not biting. They're pressing lips. It's called kissing.
LAL: Why are they leaving?
GUINAN: Lal, there are some things your father's just going to have to explain to you when he thinks you're ready.
RIKER: You're new around here, aren't you?
LAL: Yes.
GUINAN: Lal! Lal, put him down.
DATA: Commander, what are your intentions toward my daughter?
RIKER: Your daughter? Nice to meet you.

[Data's quarters]
LAL: I watch them and I can do the things they do but I will never feel the emotions. I'll never know love.
DATA: It is a limitation we must learn to accept, Lal.
LAL: Then why do you still try to emulate humans? What purpose does it serve except to remind you that you are incomplete?
DATA: I have asked myself that many times as I have struggled to be more human. Until I realized it is the struggle itself that is most important. We must strive to be more than we are, Lal. It does not matter that we will never reach our ultimate goal. The effort yields its own rewards.
LAL: You are wise, Father.
DATA: It is the difference between knowledge and experience.
LAL: I learned today that humans like to hold hands. It is a symbolic gesture of affection.

[Ready room]
HAFTEL: No objective viewpoint could see it any other way.
PICARD: Forgive me, Admiral, I thought you were sent here to form an opinion, not to justify one.
HAFTEL: Captain, do not make this more difficult than it needs to be.
PICARD: I see no need for it to be difficult at all. I understand your concerns. What I'm asking for is time, patience. If you have an open mind, I'm sure you will see that it is imperative that Data and Lal be kept together during the formative stages of her development. After that, I have no doubt Commander Data will be delighted to deliver her to Starfleet Research.
HAFTEL: That's not satisfactory. If mistakes are made, the damage that's done might be irreparable.
PICARD: I'm convinced the damage will be irreparable if they're separated.
HAFTEL: Captain, are we talking about breaking up a family? Isn't that rather a sentimental attitude about androids?
PICARD: They're living, sentient beings. Their rights and privileges in our society have been defined. I helped define them.
HAFTEL: Yes, Captain, and I am more than willing to acknowledge that. What you must acknowledge is that Lal may be a technological step forward in the development of artificial intelligence.
PICARD: A most significant step.
HAFTEL: Yes, and work like this demands to be done with controlled procedures.
PICARD: Which Commander Data is following.
HAFTEL: In effective isolation. And that is what Starfleet Research finds unacceptable.

[Laboratory]
DATA: So Lal now possesses the sum of my programming.
HAFTEL: Her neural nets are laid down identically to yours?
DATA: There do seem to be some variations on the quantum level. She can use contractions. I cannot.
HAFTEL: An aberration. What have you done about this?
DATA: I have maintained records on positronic matrix activity, behavioral norms, and all verbal patterns. I have seen no evidence of other aberrations.
PICARD: It would seem you've actually improved upon yourself, Data.
DATA: Is that not the goal of every parent, sir?
HAFTEL: But as a good father, don't you think it would be better, especially in light of this new aberration, if Lal were close to people trained in diagnostic and evaluative procedures?
DATA: I am programmed with the procedures you mention, sir. And in any meaningful evaluation of Lal, you would require a model for a basis of comparison. I am the only model available, Admiral.
HAFTEL: You haven't mastered human cultural and behavioral norms yourself yet, have you?
DATA: No, sir.
HAFTEL: Where is Lal now?

[Ten Forward]
HAFTEL: This is your idea of appropriate guidance?
DATA: It is an opportunity for her to observe human behavior and more importantly, for her to interact with her crewmates.
HAFTEL: She is capable of running over sixty trillion calculations per second, and you have her working as a cocktail waitress.
PICARD: Admiral, she is under the strict guidance of a woman in whom I have absolute trust. Ten Forward is the center of the ship's social activity. Everyone on board comes here.
HAFTEL: I'm not convinced the sort of behavior she observes here will be a positive influence.
GUINAN: Most people when they come here behave themselves. If they don't, I ask them to leave.
PICARD: Admiral Haftel, Guinan. She runs Ten Forward. How is Lal doing?
GUINAN: She spills a few drinks every now and then, but she's learning.
HAFTEL: I want the android out of here.
GUINAN: Now, Admiral, you've been in one or two bars in your time.
HAFTEL: Have her report to me immediately for an interview.

[Observation lounge]
HAFTEL: Well, Lal, I've been looking forward to meeting you.
LAL: Why?
HAFTEL: You're very important to us at Starfleet Research. We have got quite a facility at Galor Four. I want like to show it to you.
PICARD: In fact, the Admiral is fact suggesting you be moved to Galor Four, Lal.
LAL: Have I done something wrong?
HAFTEL: Oh, no, of course not. We just want to broaden your experience. There's only so much you can learn on a starship. I'm sure you'll agree to that.
LAL: Yes, I'll agree.
HAFTEL: Good.
LAL: Thus, the natural conclusion would be when I have learned all there is to learn aboard the starship, I would relocate to Galor Four.
HAFTEL: That is not the natural conclusion here.
LAL: I believe it is.
PICARD: You see, Lal, the Admiral is concerned that you need more guidance than your father can provide here on the Enterprise.
HAFTEL: Yes. Don't misunderstand me, I have great respect for your father.
LAL: You do not speak with respect.
HAFTEL: She seems very adversarial.
LAL: I'm merely stating a fact, Admiral.
HAFTEL: I don't think your father has taught you selective judgment in the verbalisation of your own thoughts. That is a skill we will help you develop.
LAL: My father is already helping me, sir.
HAFTEL: The question is, has he helped you enough?
LAL: Are you asking me, sir?
HAFTEL: No, I didn't mean to ask any
PICARD: Why don't we, Admiral? In all these discussions, no one has ever mentioned her wishes. She's a free, sentient being. What are your wishes, Lal?
LAL: I wish to remain here, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Thank you, Lal. You're excused.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
TROI: Hello, Lal. How are you?
LAL: Troi. Admiral. Admiral. An admiral from Starfleet has come to take me away, Troi. I am scared.
TROI: You are scared, aren't you?
LAL: I feel it. How is this possible?
TROI: I don't know.
LAL: This is what it means to feel. This is what it means to feel.

[Observation lounge]
HAFTEL: You have Lal off to a wonderful start in life, Commander. And that's what being a parent is all about. However, I have finally decided that I must ask you to release her to me.
DATA: May I ask why, sir?
HAFTEL: All the other arguments aside, there's one that is irrefutable. There are only two Soong-type androids in existence. It would be very dangerous to have you both in the same place. Especially aboard a starship. One lucky shot by a Romulan, we'd lose you both.
PICARD: Admiral, that is a fine argument, but it doesn't change my feeling that the proper place for Lal to develop is by Data's side.
HAFTEL: You're not a parent, Captain. I am. I have learned, with difficulty, that there comes a time when all parents must give up their children for their own good.
PICARD: This is not the time. Damn it, even I can see the umbilical cord is virtually uncut. The child, the child depends on him.
HAFTEL: Mister Data, it would be better for Lal if she left knowing you had voluntarily decided that this was the best course of action.
DATA: Admiral, when I created Lal, it was in the hope that someday she would choose to enter the Academy and become a member of Starfleet. I wanted to give something back in return for all Starfleet has given me. I still do. But Lal is my child. You ask that I volunteer to give her up. I cannot. It would violate every lesson I have learned about human parenting. I have brought a new life into this world, and it is my duty, not Starfleet's, to guide her through these first difficult steps to maturity, to support her as she learns, to prepare her to be a contributing member of society. No one can relieve me from that obligation. And I cannot ignore it. I am her father.
HAFTEL: Then I regret that I must order you to transport Lal aboard my ship.
PICARD: Belay that order, Mister Data.
HAFTEL: I beg your pardon?
PICARD: I will take this to Starfleet myself.
HAFTEL: I am Starfleet, Captain! Proceed, Commander.
PICARD: Hold your ground, Mister Data.
HAFTEL: Captain, you are jeopardizing your command and your career.
PICARD: There are times, sir, when men of good conscience cannot blindly follow orders. You acknowledge their sentience, but you ignore their personal liberties and freedom. Order a man to hand his child over to the state? Not while I am his captain. If you wish, you can accompany us to Starfleet, where we shall see
TROI (voiceover): Troi to Commander Data. Report to your lab at once.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Counselor. He's on his way. Is there a problem?
TROI (voiceover): Yes, Captain. Something is terribly wrong with Lal.

[Laboratory]
TROI: It lasted barely a moment. She experienced fear and confusion. And then for no apparent reason she walked out of my quarters. She didn't say another word, she just started walking here and each step became more and more difficult.
DATA: Lal is programmed to return to the lab in the event of a malfunction.
LAL: Father.
DATA: Yes, Lal. I am here.
PICARD: A malfunction. Emotional awareness.
DATA: It appears to be a symptom of cascade failure. It would require initialisation the base matrix without wiping out the higher functions.
HAFTEL: I agree. May I assist?
DATA: Thank you, Admiral.
HAFTEL: If you'll excuse us, Commander Data and I have much to do.

[Corridor]
HAFTEL: She won't survive much longer. There was nothing anyone could have done. We'd repolarize one pathway and another would collapse. And then another. His hands were moving faster than I could see, trying to stay ahead of each breakdown. He refused to give up. He was remarkable. It just wasn't meant to be.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Lal? I am unable to correct the system failure.
LAL: I know.
DATA: We must say goodbye now.
LAL: I feel
DATA: What do you feel, Lal?
LAL: I love you, Father.
DATA: I wish I could feel it with you.
LAL: I will feel it for both of us. Thank you for my life. Flirting. Laughter. Painting. Family. Female. Human.

[Bridge]
DATA: Lal suffered complete neural system failure at thirteen hundred hours. I have deactivated the unit.
PICARD: The crew is saddened by your loss, Mister Data.
DATA: I thank you for your sympathy, but she is here. Her presence so enriched my life that I could not allow her to pass into oblivion. So I incorporated her programs back into my own. I have transferred her memories to me.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you take your position? Mister Crusher? Lay in a course for the starbase on Otar Two.
WESLEY: Course is set, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43685.2 As part of an exchange program, we're taking aboard a Klingon officer to return the recent visit of Commander Riker to the cruiser Pagh.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We must take care that while he is with us, Commander Kurn is accorded all the rights and responsibilities due the first officer of this ship. If he should feel patronized in any way
RIKER: I'm sure we'd know. One does not patronize a Klingon warrior.
PICARD: Your experience on board the Pagh will prove invaluable during the commander's tour. Be sure that the crew is prepared for any unusual orders.
RIKER: The Klingons are very thorough. I'm sure Commander Kurn has studied for his assignment just as I did when I served with them.
PICARD: I understand that he requested the Enterprise specifically.

[Transporter room]
CREWWOMAN: Commander Kurn is ready for transport, Captain.
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD: Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Commander. I'm Captain Picard. This is Commander William Riker. He will be yielding the first officer's position to you during your tour.
KURN: You are relieved. May I take my station, Captain?
RIKER: I thought that I might show you your quarters first.
KURN: I am ready for duty, sir. I ask that I be allowed to take my station.
PICARD: Very well. If you will accompany us to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
KURN: I am Kurn, commander rank, Klingon Defense Force. You will address me as Commander or sir at all times. I am fully aware of all Starfleet regulations and they will be strictly adhered to by all personnel while I am in command. It is my intention to bring a sense of discipline that you may not be accustomed to. With your permission, of course, Captain.
PICARD: Oh, by all means, Commander.
KURN: I have studied all of your service records. Impressive. We shall see if you live up to your reputations. Do you wish to speak, Acting Ensign Wesley Crusher?
WESLEY: No, sir, Commander, sir.
KURN: The crew awaits your orders, Captain.
PICARD: Then take us to the outer cometary cloud, Commander.
KURN: Set course one one four mark two three zero, one third impulse power.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
KURN: Execute.
WESLEY: Engaged. Increasing to one third impulse power, sir.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Mind if I join you?
WESLEY: No, sir.
RIKER: Is there something wrong, Wes? Commander Kurn perhaps?
WESLEY: He just doesn't seem to like me. I can't do anything right for him. Every time I respond to an order he jumps down my throat. I don't know what I'm doing wrong.
RIKER: Problem, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. It's our new first officer.
RIKER: I take it he found something wrong in Engineering?
LAFORGE: Just the entire section. He pulled a surprise inspection in the middle of a maintenance cycle! I tried to explain it to him
RIKER: But he wouldn't listen.
LAFORGE: We're all going to be doing double shifts down there just to ready for the next inspection.
RIKER: His style of command is just different. Klingons believe in obedience and a strict formality of command.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but this isn't a Klingon vessel. He's going to have to loosen up, Commander.
WESLEY: It's not just us. He's been leaning into everybody pretty hard, except
LAFORGE: Except the one guy who wouldn't really mind it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sensors picking up asteroidal debris ahead, Commander.
KURN: Can you identify the coordinates, Mister Worf?
WORF: Bearing zero zero one mark point oh three. Range, three hundred thousand kilometers.
KURN: Excellent. Please scan the asteroid field for me, Lieutenant, and report.
WORF: Approximately two thousand small objects. None in our direct flight path, sir.
KURN: So, no course correction is necessary. Is that what you are saying?
WORF: It should not be needed, sir.
KURN: Very good, Lieutenant. You handled that well.
KURN: Yes?

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Commander. Captain's mess?
KURN: Yes.
RIKER: Resume.
RIKER: Your knowledge of our systems and procedures is very impressive, Sir. I would like to make one suggestion, sir.
KURN: A suggestion?
RIKER: When I served aboard the Pagh, the hardest part for me was recognizing and adapting to the demands of the crew. They needed an iron hand. I imagine it must be very difficult for you to work with a crew that is so different. I would be happy to guide you in that regard, if it would be helpful.
KURN: No, Commander. It wouldn't.

[Corridor]
RIKER: This is not a Klingon ship, sir.
KURN: No, Commander, it is not. If it were a Klingon ship, I would have killed you for offering your suggestion.

[Captain's Mess]
KURN: How long has the bird been dead? It appears to have been lying in the sun for quite some time.
LAFORGE: It's not dead, it's been replicated. You do understand that we cook most of our foods.
KURN: Ah, yes. I was told to prepare for that. I shall try some of your burned replicated bird meat.
PICARD: I have attempted to select a menu that will allow you to sample a variety of dishes, Commander.
CRUSHER: Try some caviar.
KURN: The odor is not palatable. What is it?
DATA: The unhatched eggs of a large scaleless
PICARD: Later, Data. A fish, Commander. A delicacy from the Caspian Sea on Earth It's a favorite of mine. Our replicator's never done it justice, but I managed to store a few cases for special occasions.
KURN: I am honored, Captain.
TROI: Are you adjusting to your new environment, Commander?
KURN: I find the constraints a bit difficult to conform to. Just a short while ago, I had to stop myself from killing Commander Riker. I believe he was trying to communicate the crew's sense of discomfort with my style of command. Under different circumstances, I would consider that a challenge to my authority.
PICARD: One of the aims of the exchange program, Commander, is for all of us to learn tolerance. As for my crew, it may be healthy to shake up the status quo occasionally.
RIKER: The Commander certainly appears to have the crew on its toes
LAFORGE: And then some. No offense, sir.
KURN: None taken. I never kill anyone at the supper table, Mister La Forge.
CRUSHER: Don't you like it, Commander?
KURN: Our food has much more taste to it. While I'm sure this is well prepared, it is far too bland for the stomach of a Klingon.
LAFORGE: It seems to agree with Worf.
KURN: Yes.

[Kurn's quarters]
KURN: Enter.
KURN: 'el.
WORF: Permission to speak freely, sir?
KURN: For what purpose?
WORF: I have questions I wish to pose.
KURN: Are your quarters so comfortable?
WORF: They serve me.
KURN: This entire ship seems built on comfort, relaxation, being at ease. It is not the ship of a warrior, not the ship of a Klingon. You cannot ask these questions within the boundaries of protocol?
WORF: They are of a personal nature, sir.
KURN: Permission granted. Pose your questions.
WORF: I wish to know if I have given you offense.
KURN: I am not human. If you had given offense, you would not need to ask.
WORF: Perhaps I have not performed my duties to your satisfaction?
KURN: I find you to be a capable Starfleet officer. A credit to your ship.
WORF: Yet you dishonor me at every opportunity.
KURN: Have I? I did not know that being polite to a Starfleet officer would bring dishonor on him.
WORF: I am a Klingon.
KURN: Really? Perhaps your blood has thinned in this environment. I simply don't want to hurt you.
KURN: mev yap! So your blood is not so thin after all.
WORF: I am a Klingon! if you doubt it, a demonstration can be arranged.
KURN: That is the response of a Klingon. The response I would expect from my older brother.
KURN: I was barely a year old when you left for the Khitomer Outpost. You, our mother and father were not going to stay long. It was decided that I did not need to go. I was left to stay with our father's friend, Lorgh, until you returned. You never did.
WORF: The Starfleet officer that rescued me was told by the Klingon High Command that I had no living relatives.
KURN: They assumed that I was killed with the family at Khitomer. Lorgh had no sons. He took me into his family. It was not until I had reached the Age of Ascension that I was told the truth.
WORF: So you asked to serve aboard the Enterprise to watch me.
KURN: It was an excellent opportunity to see what kind of Klingon you were, or if you were Klingon at all.
WORF: Your deception offends me, brother.
KURN: It should. But it was required.
WORF: To satisfy your curiosity.
KURN: No. Much more. You are the eldest son. The challenge is yours to make.
WORF: Challenge?
KURN: The Klingon High Council has judged our father a traitor to the Empire.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What are the allegations, Worf?
WORF: My father is accused of aiding and abetting the Romulan attack on the Khitomer outpost.
PICARD: The attack in which he himself was killed? But why now, after twenty years?
WORF: I do not know, Captain. I will hear the evidence when I arrive. The charge has been made by Duras, the son of my father's greatest rival. Our family name will be disgraced for seven generations. It is my responsibility to clear his name or answer for his crimes.
PICARD: Answer for them?
WORF: The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions and he is responsible for theirs. If I fail in my challenge, I will be executed. Will you grant my leave, Captain?
PICARD: No. If I understand correctly, a Starfleet officer, a respected member of my crew, could be accused of a capital crime. Your actions in this matter will reflect on this ship and on the Federation. Therefore, it seems only appropriate that your captain should be at your side while you make your challenge. I'm sure you would do no less for me.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Kurn
KURN: Sir.
PICARD: We're changing course. Set coordinates for the First City of the Klingon Imperial Empire.

[Ten Forward]
KURN: We arrive within the hour.
WORF: Yes.
KURN: The Council will receive you at high sun in the Great Hall of
WORF: I know the procedure for the challenge.
KURN: You'll need a cha'DIch to defend you. While you are accused, you will not be allowed combat. I would be honored if you chose me.
WORF: I ask you to stand with me, to be my cha'DIch.
KURN: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. The two sons of Mogh. Together, we will restore the family honor.
WORF: No. For the proceeding, you will not reveal your true father.
KURN: I must.
WORF: You will not.
KURN: Because it would mean my death as well if you fail? A Klingon's honor means more to him than his life. Perhaps your human values have clouded your judgment. I insist.
WORF: On this ship, you are my commander, and I obey. In Council chamber, you are my cha'DIch. You do not insist. You obey.
KURN: Yes, brother.

[Great Hall]
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. I have come to challenge the lies that have been spoken of my father.
K'MPEC: Worf, son of Mogh, you have challenged the judgment of the council. Are you prepared to answer for this if you fail?
WORF: Yes. With my life.
K'MPEC: Why do you come before us, Commander?
KURN: I am Kurn, son of Lorgh. I will stand by Worf's side. I am cha'DIch.
DURAS: You claim a birthright you have forsaken?
WORF: I have not forsaken my heritage. I am Klingon. My heart is of this world. My blood is as yours.
DURAS: Yet you come to us wearing a child's uniform, and you bring outsiders to our Great Hall.
PICARD: I am here at my own request. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise.
DURAS: Your words mean nothing here.
K'MPEC: Duras, let him speak.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf has served under my command with distinction. He has earned my admiration and my respect. It is my greatest wish that this Council, in its wisdom, will clear his family name and return him to duty.
K'MPEC: The trust of a commanding officer is admirable. The council has noted it. Speak the accusation.
DURAS: For many turns, the truth about Khitomer has lain dormant. Unknown. Now the truth has been revealed. The traitor Mogh sent the defense access codes to the Romulan patrol ships, allowing them to destroy the outpost. Thousands died on Khitomer. My father died on Khitomer. Their deaths must be avenged. Your father was a traitor. By posing this challenge, you are a traitor.
DURAS: You will not wear the emblems of our people. You are a fool and your challenge can only result in a fool's death.
WORF: It is a good day to die, Duras, and the day is not yet over.
K'MPEC: The council stands in recess. We will return for the Mek'ba, when the evidence will be presented. Qapla'

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, find out everything you can about the destruction of the Khitomer outpost. Cross reference with Romulan tactics and strategic information on the region, and request access to the Klingon central information net. Computer, presentation overview of Klingon custom and law pertaining to familial accountability.
COMPUTER: Accessing.
PICARD: In my ready room.

[Great Hall]
K'MPEC: Worf. I would speak with you. Alone.
K'MPEC: You should not have brought the challenge. There was no risk to you. What does it matter?
WORF: I am Klingon.
K'MPEC: Of that I have no question. But your life in the Federation would not be affected by this judgment.
WORF: My father
K'MPEC: Is dead. He died long ago. I knew your father, served with him. This is not how I wanted to remember him. We must let the past be and protect what we have now. If you leave before the Mek'ba, no shame will come on you. Return to your ship. Go back to your life. The challenge will be forgotten.
WORF: Why would you ask me to lay aside the honor of my father, my family? Are these the words of the council?
K'MPEC: I will not be questioned by you! Leave, now, or you too will be condemned as a traitor.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What Federation starship was closest to Khitomer at the time of the attack?
DATA: The USS Intrepid was the first ship on the scene, sir.
RIKER: Contact Starfleet, request all logs of the Intrepid. Riker to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher here.
RIKER: Doctor, I want you to look over the medical records from all the rescue vessels that responded to the Khitomer massacre. See if there's any information on the aftermath that might help us.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Understood.

[Pedestrian tunnel]
KURN: I should have known. Worf was right. It is a good day to die.
DURAS: The time has not yet come. It does not have to come for many turns. I know who you are, Kurn. Son of Mogh.
KURN: What?
DURAS: It was a wise choice to hide your family name. Do not err by embracing it again, for you only embrace death.
KURN: We will see.
DURAS: Worf has made a choice and he will die for it. You can still be safe. Let him stand alone.
KURN: He is my brother. I will not betray him!
DURAS: Then you will die for him.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: What kind of a weapon makes a vicious wound like that?
WORF: It is a kut'luch. The ceremonial weapon of an assassin.
CRUSHER: Fortunately his metabolic recovery is phenomenal. He will be all right
WORF: It does not matter. We should have let him die. Now that Duras knows his bloodlines, we will both be executed.
CRUSHER: You sound like you've already lost, Worf.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I have discovered the basis of the charges against Worf's father. Apparently the Klingons recently captured a Romulan ship with logs that provided new information on the Khitomer attack. They clearly indicate a transmission from the outpost to the Romulan ship moments before the shields went down.
LAFORGE: From Worf's father?
DATA: They do correspond to Mogh's personal security code.
RIKER: How can we be sure these records haven't been falsified?
LAFORGE: We can cross check them against the Intrepid's sensor logs.
DATA: I will try, but the Intrepid was at the edge of sensor range during the attack and we cannot be sure if the scan was complete.
LAFORGE: Looks like a pretty good match-up, Data
DATA: Both the Intrepid and Romulan logs show a series of distress signals from Khitomer.
RIKER: What happened there.
LAFORGE: Those are gaps in the Intrepid's logs. Missing information due to the range.
DATA: That is where Mogh's alleged transmission should be.
RIKER: Right in the middle of the gap?
LAFORGE: Wait a second, Data. Back up. Just before the Intrepid's gap begins, the timebase of both files are in perfect sync. But look. Look at what happens to the signal after the shields are dropped.
DATA: They are no longer synchronous.
LAFORGE: Commander, somebody's been rewriting history.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I do not pretend to fully understand the nuances of your world's law or culture, Lieutenant, but I do understand when somebody is trying to hide something.
WORF: K'mpec urged me to drop my challenge, abandon my family honor. It was impossible to believe I was hearing a Klingon speak
PICARD: Obviously, they did not expect and never wanted this challenge. You're getting close to something, Lieutenant. Something they care a great deal about protecting.
WORF: If it is true, it is not just Duras but the High Council itself that is my enemy. Captain, I must choose another cha'DIch. I would like your permission to ask one of the crew.
PICARD: Well of course, Lieutenant. Choose whomever you wish.
WORF: Then I would ask you to stand with me. You may refuse with no dishonor.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. I appreciate the gesture, but I know that there are stronger and younger men from whom to choose.
WORF: I can think of no one I would rather have at my side.
PICARD: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. I accept.

[Great Hall]
WORF: My challenge will proceed. No threats, no treachery will stop it. Not even a trap set for my cha'DIch by a coward.
K'MPEC: Duras!
DURAS: I will not hear lies from the son of a traitor.
DURAS: Keep your place, Picard!
PICARD: This is my place.
WORF: He is now my cha'DIch.
DURAS: This is not your world, human. You do not command here.
PICARD: I'm not here to command.
DURAS: Then you must be ready to fight. Something that Starfleet doesn't teach you.
PICARD: You may test that assumption at your convenience.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I've got something. Worf was not the only survivor of the Khitomer massacre.
RIKER: Another child?
CRUSHER: No. A Klingon woman was found with Worf.
RIKER: Kahlest. Who was she?
CRUSHER: I don't know, but the report said she was severely injured, was transferred to Starbase twenty four for treatment. That was when she was separated from Worf. And after her recovery, she returned home.
RIKER: We've got to find her, if she's still alive. Data, scan the Klingon central net. See if there's any record of her.

[Great Hall]
DURAS: The Romulans lowered the outpost shields themselves. They were given the defense access code! The record clearly show the Romulan patrol ship receiving a personal transmission from Mogh seconds before the shields fell.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Stand by.
DURAS: The Khitomer commander noted in his log that Mogh had been acting suspiciously.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've located another survivor of the Khitomer massacre, Captain a woman who was found with Worf. Her name is Kahlest.

[Great Hall]
RIKER: She resides in the Old Quarter of the First City.
PICARD: Well done. Picard out.
DURAS: Another witness has testified that Mogh often spoke of his admiration for the Romulans. Their culture. Their women. Mogh betrayed us, and four thousand Klingons died on Khitomer. Only the son of Mogh survived.
PICARD: K'mpec. May we have a short recess?
K'MPEC: Len'mat.
PICARD: Have you heard of a woman named Kahlest?
WORF: She was my ghojmoK, my nurse.
PICARD: It is possible she was an eyewitness to your father's activities on Khitomer.
WORF: But she died in the attack.
PICARD: No, she survived. She's living in the Old Quarter. I'm going to find her.
WORF: It is too dangerous. You must not go alone.
PICARD: Hey, I'm your cha'DIch.

[Kahlest's home]
PICARD: Kahlest?
KAHLEST: What do you want?
PICARD: Your help.
KAHLEST: No.
PICARD: You don't even know what I want.
KAHLEST: You are cha'Dich. I know.
PICARD: Then you also know that Worf's life is at stake.
KAHLEST: I cannot help. I am dead. A long time dead.
PICARD: Were you with Worf's father just before the attack on Khitomer?
KAHLEST: No. My life ended on Khitomer. I served a proud family, a strong house. All that is gone.
PICARD: Worf is not gone. The family you served needs you again.
KAHLEST: I cannot help.
PICARD: Was his father a traitor?
KAHLEST: No. Mogh was loyal to the Emperor. Mogh suspected someone of plotting with the Romulans and followed them to Khitomer.
PICARD: Who? Who was the traitor?
KAHLEST: I do not know.
PICARD: Then we have no way to prove Mogh's innocence, and Worf will die as the son of a traitor.
KAHLEST: You must leave now, cha'DIch. I am dead.

[Street]
PICARD: My appreciation, madam.
KAHLEST: You are brave, cha'DIch. Worf chose well.
PICARD: Kahlest, would they recognize you? Would they know who your are?
KAHLEST: K'mpec would remember Kahlest. I caught his eye back then, but he was too fat.
PICARD: Come back with me. They won't know how much you know. You may shake loose the truth.
KAHLEST: I will come.

[Great Hall]
DURAS: The evidence is clear. I would ask that the judgment stand. That Worf be condemned as the son of a traitor to the Empire.
K'MPEC: Worf, son of Mogh, the judgment of
PICARD: K'mpec!
PICARD: The Mek'ba is not complete. I bring an eyewitness to the Khitomer massacre, one who has new evidence, K'mpec.
KAHLEST: Mogh was innocent.
K'MPEC: Len'mat.

[K'mpec's Chamber]
DURAS: What is it you think you know, old woman?
PICARD: Do not answer. It is the rule of the Mek'ba that evidence be presented in open council.
DURAS: She will die before she gives evidence.
K'MPEC: Be silent, Duras. Would you kill an old women to cover your dishonor?
PICARD: Yes. It is your dishonor we are protecting here, isn't it, Duras?
DURAS: I have no reluctance to kill you, human.
PICARD: Are you prepared to hear her evidence in open council?
K'MPEC: Obviously, we would not. Kahlest, you can go now. It is good to see you again.
KAHLEST: You are still fat, K'mpec.
K'MPEC: I asked you to leave, to let this challenge go unanswered, but you did not hear my words. And now it's come to this.
WORF: Why did you judge my father guilty when you knew he was not?
K'MPEC: Someone had to be blamed. The warriors who captured the Romulan ship had learned of the treachery, but only the Council knew whose security code had been transmitted. Ja'rod, father of Duras.
WORF: This ha'DIbaH should have been fed to the dogs!
K'MPEC: His family is powerful. If the truth were known, it would shatter the Council, most certainly plunge us into civil war. You were in Starfleet. We did not expect you to challenge the judgment, nor did we know there was another son of Mogh.
PICARD: Worf's challenge is successful. The honor of his family must be restored.
K'MPEC: You do not understand. His challenge was defeated before he ever made it. You will not be allowed to present this evidence. The judgment stands. You will be condemned. So will your brother. There is no other way now.
PICARD: You admit the truth and yet expect him to accept punishment? What does this say of an Empire who holds honor so dear?
K'MPEC: The Empire will not be destroyed for one family's honor.
PICARD: Unacceptable, K'mpec.
DURAS: You have no say in this, cha'DIch!
PICARD: I speak now as the Captain of the USS Enterprise and Lieutenant Worf's commanding officer. You will not execute a member of my crew, nor will I turn his brother over to you.
K'MPEC: This is not the Federation, Picard. If you defy an order of the High Council, the alliance with the Federation could fall to dust.
PICARD: The alliance with the Federation is not based on lies, K'mpec! Protect your secrets if you must, but you will not sacrifice these men.
WORF: I will die for the Empire.
PICARD: Lieutenant.
WORF: The cha'DIch will be silent. Allow my brother to return to his life. Only you need know his true bloodline.
DURAS: Not acceptable. His honor would demand revenge.
WORF: If you allow him to live, I will give you something that will serve your purpose far more than my death. I will accept discommendation.
DURAS: You would do this in open council?
K'MPEC: It would be the same as admitting your father's guilt, Worf.
WORF: So be it.
K'MPEC: Your heart is Klingon. It will be done. What has been said here will never be spoken of again.
WORF: You are the son of a traitor.
WORF: Now I am ready.

[Great Hall]
KURN: Why is he doing this? I was prepared to die.
PICARD: Worf wants you to live. The name of your father must someday be cleared. He needs you alive with your honor intact.
KURN: But to do this
PICARD: There will be another day, Commander. Do not forget what he does here today. Do not let your children forget.
WORF: tlhIH ghIj jIHyoj.
K'MPEC: biHnuch.
WORF: You must also, brother.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43714.1. We have finally succeeded in eradicating the Phyrox plague on Cor Caroli Five, and will soon be preparing to leave orbit and proceed to our next mission. A rendezvous with the USS Hood to assist their terraforming efforts on Browder Four.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, ship's sensors detect an abnormal energy reading in the Captain's quarters.
RIKER: Type?
DATA: Undetermined.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.
WORF: Security team to Captain's quarters.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Anyone receiving this transmission, please respond.

[Outside Picard's quarters]
WORF: Security override. Priority one.
PICARD 2: Is something the matter, Lieutenant?

[Holding cell]
PICARD: It's all right, it's al right. I'm not going to hurt you.
HARO: Captain.
PICARD: Picard, of the Enterprise.
HARO: Captain Picard. We studied your missions at the Academy Mitena Haro, first year cadet, Starfleet Academy.
PICARD: Cadet Haro.
THOLL: Perhaps you can explain what this is all about.
PICARD: Unfortunately, I can't, Mister
THOLL: Tholl. Kova Tholl, of Mizar Two.
PICARD: Well, Mister Tholl, all I know is that I've been brought here against my will. Wherever here is.
HARO: The same thing happened to me, sir. I was alone, studying and I fainted. When I came to, it was about three days ago.
PICARD: And you, sir?
THOLL: I've been here twelve days, possibly more. I had been meditating privately and for no reason whatever, I lost consciousness.
PICARD: What can you tell me about our captors?
THOLL: Nothing. They've never shown themselves.
PICARD: Four sleeping areas. That implies we may be joined by another captive.
THOLL: It's edible, but I wouldn't call it food.
THOLL: I wouldn't touch that.
PICARD: Why not?
THOLL: If it's the door lock, the combination's too complex to hit at random. I tried it and was punished.
PICARD: Punished? How?
THOLL: Severe pain. Some sort of energy beam. I won't get near that panel again.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Hood has arrived at the rendezvous point. They are expecting us in thirty six hours.
PICARD 2: Thank you, Lieutenant. Mister Data, the nearest pulsar is in the Lonka cluster, is it not?
DATA: Correct, sir.
PICARD 2: What do we know about that pulsar?
DATA: A great deal, sir. It is a rotating neutron star of approximately four point three five six solar masses.
PICARD 2: Mister Crusher, how long would it take us to get there?
WESLEY: At warp seven, thirty four minutes.
PICARD 2: Mister Crusher make it so.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD 2: Set course for the Lonka pulsar. Warp two.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Sir, at warp two we'll arrive at the pulsar in thirty one hours.
PICARD 2: Thank you, Ensign. Engage.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Will we be delaying our rendezvous with the Hood, sir?
PICARD 2: We may have to, Number One.
RIKER: Lieutenant, contact the Hood and inform them of our delay.
WORF: Aye, Commander.
PICARD 2: Belay that order. There will be no further communication off this ship without my prior authorisation. Commander, may I have a word with you? Mister Data, you have the bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD 2: Number One, you know I like to keep you well informed as to the nature of our missions.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD 2: And if I don't inform you there is a reason. I don't like keeping you in the dark, but for the next few days I may not be able to be as communicative as usual. It may make things difficult for you.
RIKER: Don't worry about me, sir. I can handle it.
PICARD 2: And the crew?
RIKER: You can count on all of us, sir.
PICARD 2: I appreciate that, Number One.

[Holding cell]
THOLL: Picard, what are you doing?
PICARD: Attempting to let our captors know that we possess intelligence.
THOLL: You don't think they already know that? They can hear us talking.
PICARD: Yes, but they may not realize that we're communicating through language.
HARO: Captain Picard is letting them know we comprehend mathematics by tapping out the first six prime numbers.
THOLL: I know what he's doing. I'm trying to understand why.
PICARD: It is imperative that we communicate with our abductors, find out what they want.
THOLL: Obviously, they want us.
PICARD: Obviously. But why? What made our captors choose us? What makes us special?
HARO: I couldn't say, Captain. I'm certainly not special. I am just one cadet.
PICARD: What's your best area of study?
HARO: Impulse propulsion systems. I'm very good with field coils.
PICARD: Good enough to be useful to our abductors?
HARO: I don't know. Maybe. But if they needed an engineer, sir, why didn't they take a real one? Why pick a Starfleet cadet?
PICARD: That I can't answer. The Bolians are maintaining an uneasy truce with the Moropa, are they not?
HARO: That's right. But this doesn't look like Moropa technology and, even assuming the Moropa wanted me, what would they want with either of you?
THOLL: I've never even heard of the Moropa. My race has no enemies.
PICARD: None? In the last three hundred years of Mizarian history, your planet has been conquered six times!
THOLL: And we've survived by not resisting. Mizarians value peace above confrontation.
PICARD: Then you have no idea who might have done this.
THOLL: No. I don't know of anyone who bears malice toward my race.
PICARD: Or against you personally?
THOLL: You can't mean to suggest that someone with a personal grudge against me has gone to all this trouble.
PICARD: I'm not suggesting anything. I'm merely trying to come up with some explanation for your abduction.
THOLL: I'm sorry, Picard. I can't give you one. I am neither important enough to hold for ransom nor radical enough to be dangerous. I'm a simple public servant.
PICARD: Nevertheless, Mister Tholl
PICARD: Stop! We mean you no harm. We are prisoners, like yourself. We are not the enemy.
ESOQQ: Who has done this?
PICARD: We don't know. We were brought here the same way you were. Our captors refuse to show themselves.
ESOQQ: I don't trust you.
PICARD: You must trust us. We wish only to return to our worlds. Were you abducted from Chalna?
ESOQQ: You know my planet?
PICARD: Oh, yes. I visited there twelve years ago, while commanding the Stargazer.

[Data's quarters]
RIKER: Five, and twenty.
LAFORGE: Ouch.
TROI: If it's too rich, Geordi, fold.
LAFORGE: I'm thinking, I'm thinking.
DATA: Enter.
PICARD 2: Counselor, gentlemen. Forgive this intrusion. I was just passing by.
DATA: You are always welcome, Captain.
PICARD 2: I was wondering, Mister La Forge. What's our engine efficiency status?
LAFORGE: Operating at ninety three percent, sir.
PICARD 2: That's very good, but I would like to increase the efficiency to ninety five percent.
LAFORGE: No problem, Captain, I'll get right on it.
PICARD 2: That's not an order. You can get to it later. I don't want to disrupt your recreation.
LAFORGE: No Captain, it's no problem. Lady Luck left me long ago.
TROI: Would you care to join us, Captain? We have an opening.
PICARD 2: I'd rather just observe, if you don't mind.
RIKER: Not at all. Counselor, twenty.
RIKER: Pair of threes.
TROI: Flush. Queen high.
DATA: That beats my fours.
PICARD 2: Well played, Counselor. May I have a word with you for just a moment?
TROI: Certainly, sir.
PICARD 2: Forgive me, gentlemen. I'll return your player to you in a moment.

[Corridor]
PICARD 2: Counselor, I wanted to ask you about the crew. How are they reacting to our sudden change in course?
TROI: I sense no unusual reaction, Captain. After all, such a change is hardly out of the ordinary.
PICARD 2: They're not curious or concerned as to why?
TROI: They're curious, yes. But concerned? No, they trust you.
PICARD 2: How far do you think that trust goes?
TROI: Sir?
PICARD 2: I know, Counselor, that the crew has always had full confidence in me. But what if it were to change?
TROI: Well, I'd inform you, sir, of course.
PICARD 2: Thank you, Counselor.

[Holding cell]
ESOQQ: My given name is Esoqq. It means fighter.
THOLL: I'll bet half the names in the Chalnoth language mean fighter.
ESOQQ: Mizarians. Your names all mean surrender.
THOLL: We are a peaceful race, a race of thinkers.
ESOQQ: A race of cowards. And you? I don't know your people.
HARO: I am Mitena Haro, of Bolarus Nine.
ESOQQ: Who would want to imprison a child?
HARO: I'm not a child.
PICARD: Esoqq, I've been trying to determine if we have a common enemy. Someone with a reason for confining us here.
ESOQQ: There are Chalnoth who would kill me if they could. But kidnap? There is no reason.
PICARD: You have many enemies?
ESOQQ: None of consequence. I've slain all the ones who mattered. That shocks you, Bolian?
HARO: A little.
ESOQQ: And you?
THOLL: I'm not surprised. I've heard about your race. You're uncivilized. You have no laws, no system of government
ESOQQ: The Chalnoth have no use for laws or governments! We are strong. We obey no one.
THOLL: You live in anarchy, murdering one another, That mentality may get us all killed.
ESOQQ: And you may be the first.
PICARD: Both of you. This is getting us nowhere.
THOLL: Neither is asking us useless questions, Picard. But, if you must pursue the topic, How long have you and the Romulans been adversaries?
PICARD: For quite a while, Mister Tholl. I am perfectly willing to entertain the hypothesis that our captors are Romulans. But what would the Romulans want with you?
THOLL: My brainpower, perhaps. It's well known that my species possesses superior intelligence and I am considered among the brightest of my people.
HARO: And the least modest.
ESOQQ: What is this?
PICARD: Food.
ESOQQ: The only food?
PICARD: It would seem so.
ESOQQ: Poison!
THOLL: Does this mean there's nothing here for you to eat?
ESOQQ: You.
THOLL: Don't even think that! Picard, you won't let him
PICARD: Esoqq, how long can you go without food?
ESOQQ: Three days. Perhaps four.
PICARD: No longer?
ESOQQ: No longer.

[Doctor's office]
CRUSHER: Well, all your tests indicate the same results. You are in great shape.
PICARD 2: I never felt better.
CRUSHER: I see. Then why did you come in? Your annual physical isn't due for another month.
PICARD 2: Well, usually you have to remind me, then badger me, and finally order me to report. For once I thought I'd save you the trouble.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, be honest with your doctor. Are there any warning signs or symptoms that you haven't told me about?
PICARD 2: As far as I know, I'm perfectly healthy.
CRUSHER: Well, then, return to your post.
PICARD 2: Will you have dinner with me tonight?
CRUSHER: In Ten Forward?
PICARD 2: What about my quarters? More intimate.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, you are full of surprises today.
PICARD 2: I take that to be a yes.

[Holding cell]
THOLL: Picard is it wise to attempt an escape?
PICARD: It's imperative.
THOLL: Why? Our captors haven't mistreated us.
HARO: We've been kidnapped, locked in a room. You don't think that's mistreatment?
THOLL: They haven't hurt us, have they? I think we should just wait until we find out what they want. Be patient.
PICARD: We can no longer afford to be patient. Unless we act soon, Esoqq will starve.
THOLL: If we antagonize them, they may decide we're more trouble than we're worth, kill us and go capture another four.
PICARD: I agree that's a risk, but I see no alternative.
THOLL: Well, I refuse to help.
PICARD: As you wish, Mister Tholl. We must get inside this panel.
ESOQQ: Not very sturdy.
PICARD: Stand back, Haro.
HARO: The design is simple. Cross-circuiting the door mechanism should be easy.
PICARD: Make it so.
HARO: Yes, sir.
HARO: I think I've got it.
THOLL: I warned you.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: Out with it, Jean-Luc.
PICARD 2: Out with what?
CRUSHER: Whatever has been on your mind all evening long.
PICARD 2: Has it been that apparent? How well you know me.
CRUSHER: After all this time, I ought to.
PICARD 2: Well, it's true, I have been preoccupied. I know that's not very flattering to you, but I have been thinking about us. And about the choices I've made.
CRUSHER: We've both made choices.
PICARD 2: And I've been wondering if they were the right ones. Sometimes I feel we've allowed our positions to isolate us.
CRUSHER: Our positions necessitate a degree of professional detachment.
PICARD 2: But there's a danger in becoming too detached, of never permitting ourselves to get closer.
CRUSHER: Is that what you want, Jean-Luc? To get closer?
PICARD 2: You're a very attractive woman.
CRUSHER: And you're a very attractive man. But we both know it's not as simple as that.
PICARD 2: Would it be simpler if I were not your commanding officer?
CRUSHER: Simpler, perhaps, but that's not the only issue. I guess, right now, I'm comfortable with our relationship just the way it is.
PICARD 2: Would you care to dance?
CRUSHER: I thought you didn't dance.
PICARD 2: On special occasions.
PICARD 2: I don't think I told you, but I'm glad you're back on the Enterprise. I missed our friendship.
CRUSHER: I did too.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, if I didn't know you better, I would think you were playing games with me.
PICARD 2: You're sorry you came tonight?
CRUSHER: I didn't say that.
PICARD 2: Good. Because I'm delighted you did. But, perhaps we should call it a night.
PICARD 2: Goodnight.

[Holding cell]
THOLL: I warned you not to provoke our captors. The next beams might be lethal.
ESOQQ: Not to you. You moved far from the door.
THOLL: Of course I did! Being stunned once was enough.
ESOQQ: You claim you were hit by the stun beam before the rest of us arrived. You could be lying. Maybe our enemy is watching us from inside.
THOLL: Are you accusing me of collaborating with our abductors?
ESOQQ: Collaboration is what your species does best.
HARO: You did try to talk us out of attempting to escape.
ESOQQ: For all we know, you may be our captor.
THOLL: Impossible. I'm a Mizarian. My people are not aggressive.
ESOQQ: How can we be sure you're a Mizarian? You could be an impostor.
THOLL: This is nonsense. What if you're an impostor? Esoqq was the last one to appear, and he is the only one with a weapon.
ESOQQ: Keep talking and I will use it.
PICARD: Tholl, our captors have transporters, they have stun beams. It is hardly likely that they would try to hold us at bay with a knife.
THOLL: Well, then, maybe she's an impostor. She could have triggered the stun beams deliberately.
HARO: I was hit, too.
THOLL: To forestall suspicion. You were very quick to volunteer.
PICARD: Tholl, I asked her to open the door.
THOLL: You ordered her, you mean. You've been giving orders from the moment you got here, trying to make everyone do what you want.
PICARD: Tholl, what I want is for everyone to escape!
ESOQQ: Why should we believe you?
HARO: Captain Picard's put his life at stake for others many times. The primitive culture on Mintaka Three, the Wogneer creatures in the Ordek Nebula.
PICARD: And Cor Caroli Five.
HARO: Right. Helping to cure the Phyrox Plague.
ESOQQ: And how do we know this is the heroic Captain Picard? We have no proof of his identity.
THOLL: You've wasted our time with failed attempts to communicate with them or escape. Is that your task? To keep us busy so we're off guard? First officer's log, supplemental. Although we're still eighteen hours from the Lonka pulsar, the Captain has ordered us to slow to one half impulse. He has offered no explanation.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: I don't know why we're going to this pulsar. And creeping up on it at half impulse makes even less sense.
TROI: The Captain has given unusual orders before.
RIKER: I know, but this is different. He's different. I can't put my finger on it, but I'm worried.
TROI: The Captain does seem detached from his emotions.
PICARD 2: Mister La Forge. We are operating at ninety six percent engine efficiency. Well done.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir.
PICARD 2: When we arrive at the pulsar, I shall require everyone at their best. I know that I can rely on both of you.
WORF: Of course, Captain.
PICARD 2: Excellent. An ale for me, and for my officers. In fact, ales for everyone.
PICARD 2: Here's to the finest crew in Starfleet. You know, back when I was in the Academy, we would follow every toast with a song. I wonder if I can, oh, yes.
PICARD 2: Come cheer up my lads, 'Tis to glory we steer. To find something new in this wonderful year. To honor we call you as free men and brave. For who are so free as the sons of the waves? Hearts of Oak are our ships, Jolly tars are our men. We always are ready. Steady, boys, steady. We'll fight and we'll conquer again and again.
LAFORGE: Commander, what's the Captain up to?
RIKER: That's not the Captain I know.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: We're a mission that has no apparent purpose. In itself, I can accept that. All of us can, because the Captain says it's important and we trust him. Then he runs the crew through efficiency drills for the first time in my tour of duty, but he says we need them, so we need them, because we trust our Captain. But we also have a captain singing drinking songs with his men.
LAFORGE: A Captain who's come to the poker game for the first time.
TROI: And he was very odd with me afterwards. He wanted me to warn him if the crew started to lose confidence in him.
RIKER: Any signs of mental stress or trauma?
CRUSHER: He came in for a physical with no word from me.
WORF: Anything unusual, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Every test result identical to his last physical, which is kind of unusual in itself, actually.
RIKER: Almost as though he wanted to establish that there was nothing wrong.
CRUSHER: There was one other thing. He asked me to dinner in his cabin, and it was a very unusual evening.
RIKER: Which brings up a very serious possibility. What if there's an outside influence at work here?
TROI: I detect no evidence of telepathic coercion.
DATA: Commander, there is still one fact we have not considered. The abnormal energy reading in the Captain's quarters was never explained.
WORF: It is not enough evidence to justify mutiny.
RIKER: Nobody has suggested removing the Captain from command. Right now, all we have are suspicions. Not enough to act upon. The next move is his.

[Holding cell]
THOLL: Well, Picard? Prove to us you're not the enemy.
PICARD: I can't. You're right, Mister Tholl. Any of us may be the enemy. And there is no way to prove that we aren't. But until we set aside our mutual fears and trust one another, we have no hope of escape.
HARO: But sir, how can we trust each other?
THOLL: She's right. There may be an enemy among us.
PICARD: And what if there is, Mister Tholl? Shall we continue accusing one another until hostility leads to violence? Shall we allow our suspicions to destroy us? Now, let's see if we can override this stun mechanism.

[Bridge]
PICARD 2: Helm take us in to twenty million kilometers.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Worf, divert enough power to the shields to offset the increased radiation and magnetic fields.
DATA: Sir, at twenty million kilometers, our shields will only be effective for eighteen minutes.
PICARD 2: Noted, Mister Data.
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you?
PICARD 2: You have the Bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: What is our mission?
PICARD 2: I'm under no obligation to tell you that.
RIKER: If you don't, you force me to take command of this vessel.
PICARD 2: On what grounds?
RIKER: You are endangering this ship for no reason.
PICARD 2: No reason you're aware of.
RIKER: That's not good enough. Your behavior has been erratic.
PICARD 2: Erratic enough to justify mutiny? Do you honestly believe you have sufficient evidence to convince a board of inquiry?
RIKER: No, I don't. But I can't let you risk the lives of this crew.
PICARD 2: Number One, has it occurred to you that you might be the one with the problem? I'm aware you've been under stress, and I am willing to let the matter drop if you will report to Sickbay for a full examination. Otherwise, I will have to relieve you from duty. Think about it.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Cadet.
HARO: I may have overloaded it, sir.
PICARD: Mister Tholl!
THOLL: I still think this is a mistake.
THOLL: Now what? We're no better off than when we started.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, number four shield has failed. Increasing power to number three shield to compensate.
PICARD 2: Helm, move us closer. Ten million kilometers.
DATA: Sir, at that distance, the ship will not withstand the magnetic fields and radiation. We will not survive.
PICARD 2: Take us in, Mister Crusher.
RIKER: Belay that order.
PICARD 2: You're relieved of duty, Commander. Mister Worf, confine Mister Riker to his quarters.
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, I gave you an order.
RIKER: Maintain your position, Lieutenant.
PICARD 2: You're destroying yourself and anyone who is foolish enough to listen to you.
RIKER: You've shown none of the concern that Captain Picard would for the safety of his ship, the welfare of his crew.
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, escort Commander Riker from the Bridge.
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, take us away from this pulsar. Heading one eight five mark three two. Full impulse.
WESLEY: Full impulse. Aye, Commander.
RIKER: Engage.

[Holding cell]
THOLL: I hope you're satisfied, Picard. You've accomplished nothing.
ESOQQ: The sound of your voice is beginning to anger me.
PICARD: Well, I think this charade has gone far enough. Don't you?
HARO: I don't understand.
PICARD: Oh yes, you do. This isn't a holding cell. It's a laboratory maze, a carefully structured test. It's an experiment to see how well we react under pressure.
ESOQQ: How do you know?
PICARD: It's the only explanation. Look at the four of us. We do have something in common. We all react differently to authority. You, the collaborator, defer to whoever has control. You, the anarchist, reject authority in any form. I, a Starfleet Captain, trained to command. And you, a Starfleet cadet, sworn to obey a superior officer's authority. Our captors have placed us here and have devised obstacles for us to overcome. They give us food which Esoqq can't eat, to make him a threat. They give us a door we can't open until the four of us co-operate. And each time we succeed, they deal us reverses to set us against each other again, while you observe our reactions.
HARO: Sir, I've been trying to help.
PICARD: I found it unlikely that a first year cadet would know of the Enterprise's visit to Mintaka Three, so I tested you. Starfleet has classified the Cor Caroli Five plague as secret. No cadet would have knowledge of that incident.
HARO: Captain.
PICARD: So you may as well drop this pretense. I'm not playing any further. I'm quitting the game. As far as I am concerned, this experiment is over!
HARO: You are correct, Captain Picard.
ALIEN 1: To further our knowledge of alien interaction, we borrowed you, Tholl, and Esoqq, and replaced you with replicas.
ESOQQ: Replicas?
ALIEN 2: Our transporter is able to replicate living matter, including the brain's many trillion dendritic connections where memory is stored.
THOLL: You mean there's a copy of me on Mizar Two?
PICARD: An impostor running my ship.
ALIEN 2: No longer. Commander Riker has taken charge of the Enterprise.
ALIEN 1: Our species is telepathically linked. We are all in continual contact.
ALIEN 2: Much more efficient than your primitive vocal communications.
ALIEN 1: We would like to pursue this study, but of course your awareness of it would taint the results.
ALIEN 2: We will therefore return you to your places of origin.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain!
PICARD: Hold your positions. Take no action.
PICARD: Why did you choose to study the concepts of authority and leadership?
ALIEN 4: Because our species has no such concepts.
ALIEN 1: As we are all identical, distinctions among ourselves are meaningless. Hence we have no leaders no followers.
ALIEN 4: We wanted to examine the nature of command.
ALIEN 1: Our replicas of Tholl and Esoqq explored this issue on Mizar Two and on Chalna, just as our Picard replica did on the Enterprise.
ALIEN 4: Your responses were most intriguing.
PICARD: You have no right to put us through this just to satisfy your curiosity.
ALIEN 1: Why not?
PICARD: Because kidnapping is an immoral assault. The rights of other races must be respected.
ALIEN 4: This concept of morality is a very interesting human characteristic. We shall have to study it sometime.
PICARD: Now, Mister Worf.
ALIEN 1: What is it?
ALIEN 4: Why do you hold us?
PICARD: Because there is something else you can learn. With an alert crew, even our primitive vocal communications are unnecessary. With a single look I was able to inform my crew that I wanted to hold you here.
ALIEN 4: But why?
PICARD: Because I've decided to conduct an experiment of my own. I want to see how you react to being imprisoned.
ALIEN 1+4: Captain, our species cannot bear captivity.
ALIEN 1: We were merely curious. We meant no harm.
ALIEN 4: We did not, after all, injure you in any way.
PICARD: Imprisonment is an injury, regardless of how you justify.
PICARD: And now that you have had a taste of captivity, perhaps you will reconsider the morality of inflicting it upon others. In any event, we now know about your race and we know how to imprison you. Bear that in mind. Now get off my ship.
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Set course to rendezvous with the Hood. Warp eight.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. It's good to have you back, sir.
PICARD: Status, Number One?
RIKER: Ship and crew functioning normally, Captain.
PICARD: Then my doppelganger caused no serious damage? The replica was convincing?
RIKER: Very convincing, but not perfect.
PICARD: Not perfect in what way?
RIKER: Well, sir, I find it hard to believe you're that good a singer.
PICARD: A singer? I look forward to reading your report, Commander. At least, I think I do.
PICARD: Doctor
CRUSHER: Captain.
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Resort Lobby]
COMPUTER: Welcome to Risa. All that is ours is yours.
AJUR: We are looking for the lodging chamber of Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
COMPUTER: A file scan reveals no record of a Captain Picard currently visiting Risa.
AJUR: When is he expected to arrive?
COMPUTER: Where is no arrival date on file for any such individual.
BORATUS: Could we have been mistaken?
AJUR: He will come. First officer's log, Stardate 43745.2. We have departed Gemaris Five, where for the past two weeks Captain Picard has been serving as mediator in a trade dispute between the Gemarians and their nearest neighbor, the Dachlyds.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Welcome back, Deanna.
TROI: It's good to be back. The last two weeks have been grueling.
RIKER: I take it the Captain was able to negotiate an agreement mutually beneficial to both parties.
TROI: He was. I don't know how he managed it. The Gemarians and the Dachlyds are both incredibly stubborn people.
RIKER: The more difficult the task, the sweeter the victory.
PICARD: Go to warp four, Mister Bennett. Set a course for Starbase twelve. Report.
RIKER: Everything status quo, sir.
PICARD: Very well. If anyone needs me, I'll be in my Ready Room.
RIKER: Sir. Congratulations.
PICARD: About what?
RIKER: About the trade agreement.
RIKER: Is it my imagination, or is something bothering the Captain?
TROI: He has been under a great deal of strain lately. While we were on Gemaris, he ate sparingly and slept even less.
RIKER: Anything we can do?
TROI: Actually, I have a solution in mind, but I doubt he'll agree to it.
RIKER: What would that be?
TROI: Our captain needs a vacation.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Sir, it's been brought to my attention one of the crew has been neglecting his health again.
PICARD: How so?
CRUSHER: It's a classic case of stress-related ailments brought on by overwork. Exhaustion, irritability, muscle spasms. Yet he insists on ignoring them.
PICARD: Doesn't sound too serious.
CRUSHER: And I plan to keep it that way.
PICARD: What's the treatment.
CRUSHER: A week's shore leave.
PICARD: Impossible.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I could make that an order.
PICARD: But you won't. Beverly, you know I loathe vacations.
CRUSHER: You loathe going on vacations. Once you're there you have a marvelous time. You told me your four days on Zytchin Three were wonderful.
PICARD: I lied. Look, the Enterprise is scheduled to spend a week undergoing maintenance overhaul at Starbase twelve. While there, I promise that I will make full use of available recreation activity.
CRUSHER: Watching some technician fill deuterium tanks is not my idea of fun.
PICARD: I suppose I could find a few hours to spend on the holodeck.
CRUSHER: Forget the holodeck. Isn't there someplace you want to go?
PICARD: The Astrophysics Center on Icor Nine is holding a symposium on rogue star clusters. I had given serious thought to attending.
CRUSHER: The last thing you need is serious thought. Jean-Luc, why don't you go some place beautiful, where you can relax and be pampered. You deserve it.
PICARD: I'll give it serious thought.
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: Doctor. Enough.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: So, have you decided where you're going yet?
PICARD: Yes I have, Number One. Bridge.
RIKER: No, I meant on your shore leave.
PICARD: Not you too.
RIKER: Halt. I know this perfect little vacation spot. In fact, it falls within the coordinates of this sector.
PICARD: How convenient. Except, Number One, I have absolutely no intention of taking a holiday. Is that clear?
RIKER: Very clear.
PICARD: Good. I'm glad we've got that straightened out. Resume.
RIKER: The place is called Risa, and believe me, Captain, it is a paradise. Warm tropical breezes, exotic food. Nothing to do but sit around all day and enjoy the quiet. And then
RIKER: The women.
PICARD: Of course.
RIKER: I'm sure you would find their sybaritic outlook on life very appealing.
PICARD: Oh, I'm sure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'm glad to hear you say so, sir.
PICARD: Unfortunately, this vessel is about to undergo extensive repairs requiring my personal supervision.
RIKER: What about Risa?
PICARD: Some other time, Number One.
TROI: Will, I've just had some terrific news.
RIKER: Really?
TROI: There's an excellent chance my mother may be joining us on Starbase twelve.
PICARD: Your mother?
TROI: She's returning home from a conference on Achrady Seven, and she's going to try to rearrange her schedule so she can spend some time visiting with us.
RIKER: That's wonderful, Deanna.
TROI: She mentioned how much she was looking forward to seeing you again, Captain.
PICARD: Did she? Commander, could I have a word with you?

[Ready room]
RIKER: Is something wrong, Captain?
PICARD: Tell me, Number One, is the entire crew aware of this little scheme to send me off on holiday?
RIKER: I believe there are two ensigns stationed on deck thirty nine who know nothing about it.
PICARD: I suppose this means I can look forward to a week of continual harassment on this subject? I admit, I've been feeling a little fatigued.

[Picard's quarters]
RIKER: I'll see to it that these bags are beamed directly to your room, sir.
TROI: You look very handsome, if I might saying so Captain.
RIKER: Are you taking all these books?
PICARD: I thought I'd take some light reading in case I got bored.
RIKER: Ulysses by James Joyce? Ethics, Sophistry and the Alternate Universe by Ving Kuda. You call that light reading?
PICARD: To each his own, Number One.
RIKER: Have I mentioned how imaginative the Risian women are, sir?
TROI: Too often, Commander.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I do have one request, sir.
PICARD: You want me to bring you back a souvenir?
RIKER: It's called a Horga'hn. I don't think you'll have any trouble finding one.
PICARD: Consider it done.
WORF: Captain, I would feel better if you would allow me to assign a security officer to you. We will be out of communication range when we leave orbit.
PICARD: I really don't think that will be necessary, Mister Worf. Risa has a reputation of being a most peaceful planet.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Well, the ship is yours, Number One.
TROI: Enjoy your trip, Captain.
PICARD: I'll try, Counselor.
RIKER: He's going to have a great time.

[Resort Lobby]
PICARD: I beg your pardon.
VASH: God, it's so good to see you again.
PICARD: I think you've mistaken me for someone else.
VASH: You know, I think you might be right. Welcome to Risa.
PICARD: A simple handshake would have sufficed.

[Poolside]
JOVAL: Return. My apologies. I fear I have yet to master the art of hoverball.
PICARD: So it would seem.
JOVAL: My name is Joval. I am employed here. Is there anything you require to make your stay a more pleasant one?
JOVAL: You find me amusing.
PICARD: No. It's just that you are the fifth woman to ask me that question this morning. All I require is to sit in the sun and read my book. Alone.
JOVAL: And afterward?
PICARD: I really haven't thought that far ahead.
JOVAL: Then may I suggest a swim to be followed by a massage?
PICARD: Some other time perhaps.
JOVAL: I don't understand. You say you wish to be alone yet you carry the Horga'hn.
PICARD: I just purchased that. Why? Are you implying this has some special meaning?
JOVAL: The Horga'hn is the Risian symbol of sexuality. To own one is to call forth it powers. To display it is to announce you are seeking Jamaharon.
PICARD: Riker!
JOVAL: Do you seek Jamaharohn?
PICARD: I don't even know what it means. The Horga'hn is for a friend.
JOVAL: I see. Someone close to you?
PICARD: That's right.
JOVAL: Someone you love?
PICARD: I wouldn't go that far.
JOVAL: Your attitude is most puzzling. I will leave you now to your book.
PICARD: That is all I ask.
PICARD: You're blocking the suns.
SOVAK: I know you're working with her. I warn you, it's a mistake.
PICARD: Are you addressing me?
SOVAK: Don't bother to deny it. I've seen the two of you together.
PICARD: I don't know what the devil you're talking about. But whatever it is, I assure you it's no concern of mine.
SOVAK: Tell her I want the disk returned to me immediately.
PICARD: Perhaps I have not made myself clear. You have the wrong man.
SOVAK: I am rapidly losing patience with you. I demand you talk business.
PICARD: You'll find Ferengi demands carry little weight with me.
SOVAK: Obviously you've never dealt with my people before.
PICARD: On the contrary, all too often.
SOVAK: Then you know the Ferengi are not to be trifled with.
PICARD: Or trusted.
SOVAK: You dare to insult me?
PICARD: I advise you to listen closely for I will not say this again. I came to Risa for a holiday, nothing more. I have no knowledge of this woman of whom you speak, nor have I laid eyes on any disk.
SOVAK: You expect me to believe such feeble lies?
PICARD: I don't care what you believe!
SOVAK: This is not over yet, human. The disk is mine! And so is the woman. Remember that.
VASH: Hello.
PICARD: Oh, it's you.
VASH: That's not much of a greeting.
PICARD: Look, I don't wish to appear rude, but I am not seeking jamaharon.
VASH: All right, but you really should try it some time.
PICARD: If I try it, it will be at a time of my own choosing.
VASH: That's fine with me. It's not as though I was offering to help you find it.
PICARD: I, er, I assumed because of the way you welcomed me the other day.
VASH: I'm sorry if I embarrassed you.
PICARD: I don't recall saying I was embarrassed. If's just that I prefer to be acquainted with the women that I kiss.
VASH: That's understandable. The name's Vash.
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard.
VASH: So tell me about yourself, Jean-Luc.
VASH: Would you rather I guess? I can be very persistent.
PICARD: I'm the captain of a Federation starship.
VASH: That explains it.
PICARD: Explains what?
VASH: I noticed you arguing with that Ferengi. For a moment there it looked like it was going to come to blows.
PICARD: You're the woman he was talking about?
VASH: I hope your disagreement wasn't over me.
PICARD: For that information you'll have to ask him.
VASH: Where are you going?
PICARD: To find some privacy.
VASH: Wait a second.

[Resort lobby]
VASH: What did he tell you? I'm sure there wasn't a bit of truth to it.
SOVAK: And you said you didn't know her.
PICARD: I don't. And I don't want to.
SOVAK: Return the disk to me and all will be forgiven.
VASH: The disk doesn't belong to you, Sovak. It never did.
PICARD: It would seem you two have a lot to discuss. If you'll excuse me.
VASH: Jean-Luc, I'm sorry. Perhaps one day I could explain all this to you later.
PICARD: Perhaps you can.
SOVAK: I have a proposal I believe you'll find most interesting.
VASH: Save your breath.
SOVAK: I am willing to pay you your weight in gold in exchange for the disk. Is that not a generous offer?
SOVAK: I must have that woman.

[Picard's room]
PICARD: What the hell are you doing in my room?
AJUR: We are Vorgons. I am Ajur. This is Boratus.
BORATUS: We come from the twenty seventh century. We traveled three hundred years into the past to find you.
PICARD: All right, let's assume for the moment I believe you, that you are indeed from the future. What is it that you want from me?
AJUR: Have you heard of the Tox Uthat?
PICARD: What? I'm aware of the legend. It tells of a visitor from the future who left behind a mysterious device known as the Tox Uthat.
AJUR: Essentially that story is correct.
PICARD: Then the Uthat actually exists?
BORATUS: Yes. It was invented by a scientist named Kal Dano in the mid twenty seventh century. The Uthat is a quantum phase inhibitor capable of halting all nuclear reaction within a star.
PICARD: But why bring such a powerful weapon into the past?
BORATUS: Criminals attempted to steal the device, so he fled back to the twenty second century where he hid it. Ajur and I were the security team assigned to retrieve the Uthat.
PICARD: I gather you were unsuccessful.
BORATUS: Yes. When we returned we began to search through the historical records for some clue to the Uthat's fate.
PICARD: And your search led you to me?
AJUR: We came upon a brief account stating you had discovered an object of unknown origin while vacationing on Risa. From its description, a crystal cube that fits in the palm of the hand, we surmised it could very well be the Tox Uthat.
PICARD: I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I haven't found anything, including peace, which is the only thing I'm looking for.
BORATUS: You will find such a device, Captain. To us, it is already part of history.
PICARD: And if I do find it, what then?
AJUR: You will give it to us immediately so that we may return with it.
PICARD: Well, the Uthat belongs to your time, not mine.

[Vash's room]
PICARD: May I come in?
VASH: Excuse the mess. Sovak has taken to searching my room periodically.
PICARD: Is this what he's looking for?
VASH: I'm sorry I had to hide it like that. I was afraid he'd start searching me next.
PICARD: This disk must contain some very valuable information.
VASH: I doubt it's anything you'd be interested in.
PICARD: Depends.
VASH: On what?
PICARD: On whether or not it has something to do with the Tox Uthat.
VASH: Did Sovak tell you that?
PICARD: Well, let's just say I've heard rumors that the Uthat is located somewhere on Risa.
VASH: Look, the last thing I need is a partner.
PICARD: So it's true.
VASH: Have a seat. I don't suppose you ever heard of Professor Samuel Estragon?
PICARD: Yes, as a matter of fact, I have. He spent half his life searching for the Tox Uthat.
VASH: I served as his personal assistant for the past five years. Shortly before he died, he uncovered new data pinpointing its location. And that disk contains his research notes and maps.
PICARD: And you're continuing his work?
VASH: Exactly.
PICARD: With a Ferengi as an associate?
VASH: Sovak and I are definitely not working together.
PICARD: But the two of you are very well acquainted.
VASH: Well, at times he aided the professor in his explorations. Especially in situations that weren't quite ethical.
PICARD: And now, with typical Ferengi logic, he's convinced that the Tox Uthat belongs to him.
VASH: All he cares about is selling it to the highest bidder.
PICARD: Whereas you, of course, have a nobler purpose in mind.
VASH: I told the professor I'd present it to the Daystrom Institute for study. But first I have to find it. And that won't be easy with Sovak watching me every minute.
PICARD: I'll go in your place.
VASH: And what about me?
PICARD: You'll remain here. It's safer.
VASH: Is that an order?
PICARD: Absolutely.
VASH: This isn't a starship, Jean-Luc. I don't follow orders.
PICARD: Oh, I see.
VASH: Besides, you'd never find it without me. The professor's notes are in code.
PICARD: From the moment I met you, I knew you were going to be trouble.
VASH: You look like a man who could handle trouble.
PICARD: So, where exactly is the location?
VASH: It's about twenty seven kilometers due east. There are some subterranean caves there. That's where you'll find the Uthat.
PICARD: I'll meet you in the lobby in fifteen minutes. Be punctual. Oh, and I advise you to change your clothing.
VASH: Jean-Luc. We're going to make a wonderful team.

[Resort lobby]
SOVAK: I expected such treachery. Did you think you could sneak away from me so easily?
SOVAK: The disk. Where is it?
PICARD: Didn't anyone tell you weapons aren't allowed on Risa?
SOVAK: You're making a grave mistake putting your trust in this woman.
VASH: It' be a worse mistake to trust you.
SOVAK: Silence! Do you know how she acquired the disk in the first place?
VASH: Sovak!
SOVAK: I paid her to steal it. But instead she betrayed me, and used my money to make her way here.
VASH: It didn't happen that way.
SOVAK: She's a greedy and unscrupulous woman. A perfect mate for a Ferengi.
PICARD: You're becoming quite annoying, Sovak.
SOVAK: As are you, human. Perhaps I should kill you and then take the disk.
VASH: No, wait. You can have it.
VASH: See? I told you we'd make a wonderful team.
PICARD: We've got long trip.

[Cave]
PICARD: Have you calculated how much further we have to go?
VASH: Another eleven kilometers.
PICARD: We should stay here for the night.
VASH: I was hoping you'd say that.
PICARD: Actually, we've made better time than I expected.
VASH: I'll take that as a compliment.
PICARD: As it was intended.
VASH: Jean-Luc, I'm afraid I haven't been totally honest with you.
PICARD: Forgive me if I don't act surprised.
VASH: Sovak did pay me to hand over the disk.
PICARD: So you did steal it?
VASH: It wasn't stealing. The professor had died. I had already devoted five years of my life to tracking down the Uthat.
PICARD: But you took Sovak's money.
VASH: It was the only way I could afford to get to Risa. As for Sovak, he got exactly what he deserved.
PICARD: Well, any woman who can beat a Ferengi at his own game bears watching.
VASH: I'll take that as another compliment. I'm flattered.
PICARD: Hmm. Well, we should get some sleep.
VASH: You know Jean-Luc, it's lucky for you we met. If it wasn't for me, you'd still be back there sitting in the sun, relaxing.
PICARD: That happens to be why I came to Risa.
VASH: I'm sure you hated every minute of it. That kind of vacation isn't for a man like you. You need excitement.
PICARD: Excitement? Spending in a damp cave? Chasing after something we shall probably never find?
VASH: You're enjoying yourself, aren't you?
PICARD: Yes,
VASH: I just wanted to hear you say it.
PICARD: Good. Now, let's get some sleep.
VASH: I'll never forget that look on your face when you thought I was offering you jamaharon.
PICARD: Now that was a simple misunderstanding.
VASH: You did seem a little disappointed when I turned you down.
PICARD: You are outrageous.
VASH: Thank you. You're pretty stimulating yourself. Don't you see, we're a lot alike. That's probably why we get along so well.
PICARD: You call this getting along?
VASH: Fine. We don't get along. We're not getting along.
PICARD: I didn't say that.
VASH: No, if you want to believe we're not getting along, that's all right with me.
VASH: Still think I'm trouble?
PICARD: I'm sure of it.

[Cavern]
VASH: This is it. We've reached the end of our journey.
PICARD: Do you have the exact location?
VASH: Seven meters in from the opening along the wall.
PICARD: That should make it about here.
VASH: What the?
PICARD: Something wrong?
VASH: I can't get a reading on this. There must be starithium ore in these rocks.
PICARD: That leaves us but one alternative.
PICARD: Shall we?
VASH: Picard!
PICARD: A little premature, aren't we?
AJUR: We are to be witness to a great moment, Picard.
VASH: Who the hell are they?
PICARD: They are security officers from the twenty seventh century. They're here to take back the Uthat.
VASH: You knew about this and didn't say anything?
PICARD: I'm sorry, Vash. Would you have brought me here if I had told you?
VASH: Probably not.
PICARD: My point exactly.
SOVAK: So the betrayer is herself betrayed. You've put together quite a little team.
AJUR: Do not interrupt the captain.
PICARD: How did you get here?
SOVAK: I found the disk in her room.
VASH: That's impossible. I made a copy as a precaution, but I burned it before we left.
SOVAK: Only the outer casing was incinerated. Now, I had no intention of interrupting you. Please, continue digging.
SOVAK: No one told you to stop digging, human.
PICARD: I see no reason to continue.
SOVAK: You will do as I say.
PICARD: Look about you, Sovak. By now it must be obvious, even to you. The Uthat is not here.
SOVAK: Is this some pathetic attempt at trickery? Of course it's here. We simply haven't found it yet.
VASH: Are you saying that the professor's findings were wrong?
PICARD: It would appear so.
VASH: But how could that be? His evidence was overwhelming.
SOVAK: Enough with this foolishness. Can't you see he's trying to deceive us? Return to work this instant!
VASH: I'm afraid he's right, Sovak. According to the disk we should have reached it hours ago.
SOVAK: Lies! Treachery! This cannot be happening. Not another failure. Not after having come so close.
AJUR: It is most puzzling.
PICARD: It's over, Sovak.
SOVAK: No, I will not be cheated out of my prize. Tell him. Tell him the professor's research is irrefutable.
VASH: I don't know anymore.
SOVAK: Then step aside.
SOVAK: The Uthat is here, somewhere. It's just waiting to be found. It can't hide from me forever.

[Vash's room]
VASH: Five years of my life, wasted.
PICARD: There will be other treasures to be found, Vash.
VASH: Not like the Uthat. I hope you won't mind, but I need to be alone.

[Picard's room]
RIKER (voiceover): Enterprise to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER: We hope we're not interrupting anything important, Captain, but we wanted to inform you that we have achieved orbit around Risa and we're ready to beam you aboard at your convenience.

[Picard's room]
PICARD: I'll be returning shortly, Commander. In the interim, stand ready to initiate transporter code fourteen at my signal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Transporter code fourteen?

[Picard's room]
PICARD: You heard me, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Picard's room]
PICARD: Picard out.

[Resort lobby]
PICARD: Leaving so soon?
VASH: Jean-Luc. I was just about to come say goodbye.
PICARD: Well then, I've saved you the bother.
VASH: I want to put all this behind me as soon as possible. You understand?
PICARD: Of course. There's just one last thing you can do for me.
VASH: Anything.
PICARD: Tell me where you've hidden the Tox Uthat.
VASH: That's not funny.
PICARD: You never intended to burn that second disk. If you had, you wouldn't have been so careless as to allow Sovak to salvage any of it. You wanted him to follow us, so that he could see for himself that the Uthat wasn't at the cave site. That was the only way he could be convinced that your quest had been futile.
VASH: But how could I have known the Uthat wasn't there?
PICARD: Because you'd already been there once before, probably the moment you arrived on the planet. That's when you found it.
VASH: You're a man of many talents, Jean-Luc.
VASH: A piece of the future.
PICARD: A very dangerous piece. Were you really going to give this to the Daystrom Institute?
VASH: Well, maybe not give it. Five years is a huge investment, Jean-Luc. I deserve to make a reasonable profit.
AJUR: Congratulations Picard. We knew you would not fail us.
VASH: You're not going to just hand it over, are you? You didn't trust me. What makes you think you can trust them?
PICARD: I assume the Vorgons have proof to back up their claim.
BORATUS: Our being here is proof enough.
VASH: Wait a second, Vorgons? The professor's notes said it was two Vorgons, a male and a female, who attempted to steal the Uthat in the first place. For all we know it could be them.
PICARD: You're going to have to prove that you are who you say you are.
AJUR: You yourself said, the Uthat belongs to the future.
PICARD: But not necessarily to you.
BORATUS: You will return what is ours.
VASH: No!
PICARD: Enterprise. Code fourteen. Lock on present coordinates. Two second delay. Mark!
PICARD: Are you all right? Go. Return to your own time. There's nothing for you here.
BORATUS: History recorded that you destroyed the Uthat.
AJUR: You have fulfilled your destiny all too well, Picard.

[Picard's room]
VASH: I don't suppose there are any openings for an archeologist aboard the Enterprise.
PICARD: Somehow I doubt you'd find life aboard a starship suitable to your taste.
VASH: Probably not. I could never tolerate all that discipline.
PICARD: So, what are your plans?
VASH: I thought I might explore the ruins on Sarthong Five.
PICARD: Unbelievable! You are out of your mind! The Sarthongians are merciless to trespassers.
VASH: Why, Jean-Luc, you really do care about me.
PICARD: Promise me you will try and stay out of trouble.
VASH: I always try.
VASH: I wish we had more time together.
PICARD: Perhaps we do. The Vorgons are time travelers. Now that they know where and when the Uthat can be found, they may very well come back and try for it again.
VASH: So we may be doing this all over again?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Welcome aboard, Captain.
PICARD: Status report, Number One?
RIKER: All went well on Starbase twelve. I think you'll find the ship to be in splendid condition.
PICARD: I'll present my compliments to the crew. Oh yes, Number One, about that Horga'hn you requested.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: You and I need to have a little chat about that.
TROI: Was it a relaxing trip, Captain?
PICARD: Uh huh.
RIKER: I knew he'd have a great time.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43779.3. The Enterprise is preparing detailed exospheric charts of the Hayashi system. Although tedious, this endeavor is the first step toward planet colonization.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, sensors report the USS Hood is closing on an intercept course at high warp.
PICARD: That's odd. We weren't notified of a rendezvous.
RIKER: They seem to be in an awful hurry.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed on a secured channel by Captain DeSoto.
PICARD: On screen.
DESOTO (screen): Sorry to sneak up on you like that, Jean Luc
PICARD: Robert, why didn't you inform us?
DESOTO (screen): Out here, you never know who's listening. Keeps you on your toes, anyway. Hey, Will. Will, you getting soft on that luxury liner?
PICARD: So, old friend. How are you?
DESOTO (screen): Well, you know, they send you Galaxy Class boys out here to the far reaches. Me, I'm just hauling my butt back and forth between starbases.
PICARD: But not today.
DESOTO (screen): No, not today. Starfleet's got new orders for you. This is top priority. They need the fastest ship in the fleet and the best people. That is you.
PICARD: If time is so important, why didn't they transmit the orders by subspace?
DESOTO (screen): They're worried about Romulan eavesdropping on this one. And we've got a passenger for you. Hard to send by subspace.
PICARD: What sort of passenger?
DESOTO (screen): Mission specialist. He'll bring your orders aboard with him. His name is Tam Elbrun.
RIKER: As in Tam Elbrun of the Ghorusda disaster?
DESOTO (screen): The same. What can I say? Your orders are to cooperate fully with him. Best of luck, folks. Hood out.
DATA: Sir, the Hood is slowing to impulse.
PICARD: Mister Data, come with me.
TROI: Captain, let me come with you to greet Tam.
PICARD: You know him?
TROI: I do. He was at the university on Betazed when I studied psychology there.
PICARD: Oh, I see. He was a colleague of yours.
TROI: No. He was a patient

[Corridor]
TROI: Tam is a telepath of extraordinary talent, even for a Betazoid. He's a specialist in first contact with new life forms.

[Transporter room]
TROI: He's a very unique person, but he's not what you might expect, Captain.
PICARD: Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I'm
TAM: Captain Picard, right?. Here. You want to know all about your mission. Everything's on there. Orders and briefings, destination and heading, all that. Dee, I sensed you were out here. How've you been?
TROI: I've been fine, but I thought
TROI: you were on thought you were on Chandra Five.
DATA: Sir.
TAM: Who? What are you?
DATA: I am Data. An android.
TAM: Incredible, an android. I can't read you at all. It's like you're not there.
PICARD: Data.
TAM: Oh. You better hurry up to the bridge with that. Captain wants you to run the orders, scan the technical schematics, and be ready to brief him in ten minutes. Right?
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
PICARD: Will you meet Commander Data on the Bridge. He has our orders and new heading.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: And assemble the bridge staff for a mission briefing in fifteen minutes. Picard out. Mister Elbrun. Would you
TAM: Care to see my quarters? No. I'd rather get this briefing over with. Then be left alone until I'm needed.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I've heard something about Ghorusda. Weren't there about forty people killed?
RIKER: Forty seven, including the captain of the Adelphi and two friends from my class at the Academy.
LAFORGE: Sorry.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Main Bridge.
LAFORGE: So what happened?
RIKER: It was a first contact situation. Ghorusdan culture is so complex and different, that the Federation sent a specialist to prevent misunderstanding.
LAFORGE: So that was Tam Elbrun. What happened was his fault?
RIKER: Not directly. Board of inquiry blamed Darson for carelessness about Ghorusdan cultural taboos. But if Elbrun was so good, why didn't he warn Darson? What was he doing there if he couldn't sense that much hostility?

[Bridge]
DATA: Our destination is the Beta Stromgren system, following the path of the Vega Nine probe.
RIKER: That's twenty three parsecs beyond our furthest manned explorations.
DATA: That is correct, Commander. Apparently the probe has discovered. Astonishing.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Our orders are to proceed to this star, Beta Stromgren. Scientists have discovered that it is in the final stages of an alternating cycle of expansion and collapse, and will soon result in a supernova. However, the unmanned long range space probe sent by Starfleet to observe the process has discovered something much more.
TAM: Oh, Data don't waste time. They call it Tin Man. The Vega probe found it orbiting Stromgren.
LAFORGE: Looks like some kind of ship.
TAM: Its energy source is unknown. The people who've studied the transmissions think it's a starship. And they're sure it's alive.
PICARD: Alive? How?
LAFORGE: A cybernetic organism like the Borg?
TAM: No, no, no. Here. Starfleet believes it's an organic creature, born in space, living its life in the wastes between stars. No one knows where it came from, or why it's here. But we're going to meet it. We're going to talk to it. I'm going to talk to it.
RIKER: Have attempts been made
TAM: To communicate with it by subspace. Of course. Linguacode, universal translation, all that. It won't work. Tin Man is too different. Direct mind to mind contact is our only hope.
TROI: The opportunity for discovery is extraordinary but I don't understand Starfleet's urgency.
PICARD: Romulans.
TAM: Hell, I forgot. The Romulans.
PICARD: They claim that sector of space where Beta Stromgren is located.
WORF: The Romulans claim all that is in their field of vision.
DATA: They routinely monitor the telemetry of our deep space probes.
PICARD: Then they will certainly be sending a ship of their own to investigate this Tin Man.
TAM: No. Actually, they're sending two. Data?
DATA: That is correct. Starbase one two three has detected two D'daridex class cruisers on an intercept course. The top speed of this class cruiser is known to be less than ours. Therefore we do have some advantage.
PICARD: Then, it's a race? An alien intelligence, a new life form, representing a technology far beyond that of either the Romulans or ourselves. The Romulans will certainly take whatever measures are required to secure this creature for study.
LAFORGE: Study as in dissecting, I'd bet.
PICARD: Mister Data, you are our resident honor student in exobiology. I'm assigning you to head up the Life Sciences on this mission.
DATA: Aye, sir.
TAM: Excellent.
PICARD: Meeting adjourned, then.
TAM: So, Data, I guess you're the brains of this outfit, huh?
PICARD: Mister Elbrun, one of the reasons I'm asking you to work closely with a member of my staff is to avoid any further omissions. The possibility of an encounter with Romulans on this mission is hardly trivial. And yet
TAM: All right, all right. I should have brought up the Romulans earlier, but I was distracted. And no, Billy boy, I wasn't distracted on Ghorusda. If Darson had listened to me, no one would have died. No? Well I don't care whether you believe that or not.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Traveling at high warp, we are still several days from rendezvous with the mysterious entity which Starfleet has christened Tin Man. My immediate concern is with Tam Elbrun. Starfleet considers his unique abilities crucial to our mission, yet he seems to me unstable.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Well, according to his medical records and psych profile, he's very high on the ESP scale. A sort of prodigy.
PICARD: A prodigy? In what sense?
TROI: Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at adolescence.
PICARD: You mean you're not born reading minds?
TROI: No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally a Betazoid child is born different.
PICARD: How different?
CRUSHER: Born with his telepathic abilities switched on.
TROI: Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life.
CRUSHER: The noise of other people's thoughts and feelings must be overwhelming, incomprehensible, especially to a child.
TROI: And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam adjust, but he has some problems.
PICARD: You mentioned a hospitalization.
TROI: For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life.
CRUSHER: I always wonder what holds one person together through that kind of struggle, while another goes under?
PICARD: Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He's the indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist in communication with unknown life forms.
CRUSHER: The more unusual a life form is, the better he likes it. His personnel file shows that he's gravitated toward assignments that isolate him from other humanoids.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Commander Data, I'm picking up an unusual echo from my navigational sensors.
WORF: Something is out there, sir, tracking us, matching our speed and heading. Something which does not fully register on our instruments.
DATA: Since there is no known natural phenomenon capable of travel at warp velocities, there are but two possibilities. Either it is a sensor malfunction, another ship is following us covertly.
WORF: It is not a sensor malfunction.
DATA: Agreed.
WESLEY: But Commander, if it is a Romulan ship, with their cloaking device we shouldn't pick them up at all.
LAFORGE: Unless they're pulling so much power for something else that they can't fully cloak.
WESLEY: Like what?
LAFORGE: Ask the Romulans. If it is the Romulans.
DATA: Lieutenant, continue monitoring the precise position of the echo. Any sudden change in its behavior, initiate Yellow Alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Tam's quarters]
TAM: Come in.
TAM: How're things in the land of the living?
TROI: I thought you might be lonely. No one sees you except Data.
TAM: Lonely? I can hear everything that everyone on this ship thinks. No one besides you seems to be missing my charming
TROI: You want them to dislike you. Why?
TAM: Because I'm not a nice man. Okay, okay. Because they scare me. They're too many minds. I can't shut them out. I never could learn. All their loves, their hates, their fears, their needs. It's like a tide that never ebbs. I could drown.
TROI: I remember.
TAM: You understood, at least a little, how I felt. I see you finally found a place to fit in. People to care about.
TROI: And you're still looking.
TAM: Then there's Ghorusda. I've got enough doubt in my reliability without having to listen to Riker's and Picard's
TROI: What happened there?
TAM: I thought everyone knew.
TROI: No. What happened to you?
TAM: Maybe I got too involved with the Ghorusdans, with their point of view. It happens to me. I wanted everyone to get along. I could have warned Darson more forcefully.
TROI: So, after that you ran away? The last I heard, you were the only Federation delegate assigned to Chandra Five.
TAM: Beautiful creatures, the Chandrans. Their minds are glacial. They have a lovely three day ritual for saying hello. Peaceful, untroubled people.
TROI: Unlike humanoids?
TAM: Well, except for your friend Data. I like him. He's restful.
TROI: I believe your impression of Data is probably unique.
TAM: Yeah? Well, having to get to know someone, just once, has its appeal. I mean, talking to them, instead of getting it all at once up here whether I want it or not.
TROI: But you accepted this mission. You could have stayed on Chandra Five. You willingly came aboard a ship with over a thousand people.
TAM: How could I not? Think of it, Dee. This intelligence that swims naked through space like a fish in the sea. Totally alien, mysterious, not like us at all. Ancient. And alone. So lonely, for so long.
TROI: How can you know that? Tam? You're in contact with it. With Tin Man. Aren't you?
TAM: No. Well, yes, a little. But not quite on a conscious level.
TROI: We're light years away. That's impossible, even for you.
TAM: Impossible for me. Maybe not impossible for Tin Man.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status report, Number One?
RIKER: We've reached the outer regions of the Beta Stromgren system. On course for orbital intercept of Tin Man, ETA eighteen minutes.
PICARD: Grand.
RIKER: Not altogether. Astrophysics reports that the star's rate of collapse has increased. It could go supernova in the next few days.
DATA: Captain, we are receiving relayed sensor data from the Vega Probe, including visuals.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Magnify.
PICARD: Remarkable. Computer locate Tam Elbrun.
COMPUTER: Tam Elbrun is in turbolift one, en route to the main Bridge.
PICARD: Of course.
WORF: Captain. Our sensors are detecting a subspace wave front of highly ionized particles preceding the object which is tracking us.
PICARD: Yellow Alert. On screen.
WORF: Romulan warbird closing. They are arming main disruptors, Captain.
PICARD: Go to Red Alert. Shields to maximum.
RIKER: Arm photon torpedoes and stand by, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: I thought you said the Enterprise was faster than this Romulan.
DATA: In fact, we are, Commander. However
PICARD: Evasive, Mister Crusher. Hailing frequencies.
TAM: I guarantee that they don't want to talk to you, Captain.
WORF: The Romulan has passed us.
PICARD: Damage report.
WORF: Casualties reported. Seventy percent loss to the shields.
TAM: Their attack on us was incidental, Captain.
PICARD: Incidental?
TAM: Yes. To delay us.
DATA: Captain, it would appear that the Romulan's intent is to contact Tin Man first, at any cost. According to my sensor readings, the warbird has exceeded maximum engine output by thirty percent. They seem to have irreparable damage to their warp coils.
RIKER: So they kept up with us by sacrificing their ability to re-enter Romulan space.
PICARD: One way trip.
TAM: There is one more trailing us, Captain. A day or two behind. Data's right. This one's job is to beat us to Tin Man at any cost.
PICARD: You read all this, telepathically?
TAM: In the mind of the Romulan commander during the attack.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Crusher, all stop.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
PICARD: Geordi

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): How long to full shield restoration?
LAFORGE: I'm working on it. Computer, reconfigure structural integrity power to feed inner deflector grid.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Requested reroute would compromise operational safety limits.
LAFORGE: To hell with the limits. Override. Authorization La Forge theta two nine nine seven.
COMPUTER: Rerouting structural integrity power supply.
LAFORGE: Russell, watch the lateral grid balance. No. no, no, that's too much. We're going to have to do it manually. La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm trying to feed the inner grid by stealing some power from the structural integrity field. You should have partial shielding in thirty minutes.
PICARD (voiceover): You have ten. Picard out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: If the Romulans wish the honor of the first contact, let them have it.
TAM: You're out of your mind, Picard! What if the Romulans find a way to persuade Tin Man to
PICARD: I think the chances of that is remote. And if you will be still, Mister Elbrun, you may learn.
TAM: What?
PICARD: That being first, at any cost, is not always the point. Mister Data, while we await repairs, I want Life Sciences and Engineering to continue collecting information on the alien. And query the Vega Nine probe, long range sensors.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Data's quarters]
TAM: You do a lot of your work here?
DATA: Yes. I have configured these instruments to display information with greater speed and efficiency than stations used by the others.
TAM: Nice. A little Spartan.
DATA: Spartan?
TAM: Lots of work space, not much room to live. I don't guess you sleep.
DATA: I have tried it from time to time. But you are correct. I do not require rest.
TAM: But you paint.
DATA: The creature's anatomy appears most peculiar.
TAM: In what way?
DATA: It is indeed laid out as a vessel with what appear to be corridors and chambers. An internal environment suitable for carbon based life forms is being maintained, yet there is no evidence of a crew aboard. Tin Man is a living being which has been bred or has adapted itself to serve a purpose. I find that interesting.
TAM: Why? Must living beings have a purpose? Or do we exist for no reason but to exist?
DATA: I do not believe I am qualified to express an opinion.
TAM: Ah, Data, you're uniquely qualified. You think a great deal about humanity and you're an honest researcher. You don't treat anything as trivial, or irrelevant. You want to try it all.
DATA: You said in the transporter room that you could not read my mind.
TAM: True enough. But I think I understand you pretty well. It worries you that I can't read your mind?
DATA: Perhaps there is nothing to read. Nothing more than mechanisms and algorithmic responses.
TAM: Perhaps you're just different. Not a sin, you know, though you may have heard otherwise.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the Romulan ship is hailing the alien using their equivalent of linguacode.
RIKER: Response?
DATA: Nothing so far, Commander.
TAM: Why should it answer? What could it possibly have in common with them?
RIKER: But you're so sure it'll talk to you.
WORF: Captain, the Romulans are arming all disruptors.
PICARD: Yellow alert. Prepare for evasive action at the first change in the Romulan's course.
RIKER: With our shields in their present condition, we can't
TAM: No! No! We're not the target. It's Tin Man.
PICARD: What do you mean? Do they intend to destroy it?
TAM: Those are their orders if they can't secure the alien.
PICARD: Increase speed to intercept the Romulan vessel.
WESLEY: Their lead is too great, sir.
PICARD: Hail them. We cannot allow them
TAM: They won't listen to you!
TAM: Danger. Gomtuu. Do not allow.
PICARD: Damage report!
WORF: Nothing available yet, sir. We have partial failure of the main computer.
PICARD: It seems you woke your Tin Man.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've got impulse power, but I've got to take the warp engines offline while we recalibrate the intermix regulators.
RIKER: How long?
LAFORGE: For everything, or just for the warp engine?
RIKER: All of it.
LAFORGE: Commander, we're looking at twenty hours work here, double shifts.
RIKER: We don't know that we have twenty hours. That star could explode at any moment.
LAFORGE: I know. Okay, first thing we need to do is get the main computer working right.
RIKER: No, we fix the shields first.
LAFORGE: Commander, whatever Tin Man hit us with, it fried circuits I thought were unfryable.
RIKER: I'm not worried about Tin Man. It's more Romulans showing up.
LAFORGE: Right. First priority, get the shields up. Only let's not have any more surprises till I'm done, okay?
RIKER: Don't ask me about surprises. Ask Tam Elbrun.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Your brain activity suggests that you're coming out of a sort of fugue, or seizure. Your blood pressure and glucose are indicative of general systemic stress.
TAM: But I'm going to live?
CRUSHER: No doubt about it.
PICARD: Good. Because I want to know exactly what you did. I want to know how closely you are in communication with the alien, and what you've learned about it, and I want to know now.
TAM: I just warned it, that's all. I've been in contact with it, sensing impressions from it. It calls itself Gomtuu. It's old, Captain. It's roamed the universe for many thousands of years.
PICARD: Where did it come from? How many
TAM: Far away. Maybe beyond the galaxy. Once there were millions of them.
PICARD: Once?
TAM: It hasn't seen another of its kind for millennia. It's alone. It may be the last of its species.
PICARD: Perhaps we can help it in some way. Can you ask it to return with us to Federation space? At least persuade it to leave the vicinity of Beta Stromgren, before the star explodes?
TAM: Captain, Gomtuu knows that the star will go nova soon. That's why it's here. It wants to die. There was an explosion in space. Radiation penetrating the outer layers. The crew. Oh, the crew died. Such loss. Empty pain, Hollowness.
TROI: Tam. Stop this! You're losing yourself in this this merging.
TAM: I know. I know. Tin Man hurts and wants to die. I can't do any more from out here. If you want me to really reach Tin Man, I have got to be in physical contact. I have got to go aboard.
PICARD: No. That is absolutely out of the question.
TAM: You don't trust me.
PICARD: No, Tam, I don't believe that I do. Tam, when you reached out to the alien, to warn it, did you give any thought to this vessel? To the danger, however inadvertent, that creature might pose to our crew? Or did you simply react out of instinct?
TROI: Captain
TAM: Deanna, he's right. I don't know. I don't know what might happen but if you don't let me go, we fail our mission. Besides, at this point, you need all the help you can get. Even Tin Man's.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Russell, reactivate the sensor assemblies. Okay, let's do a program reload, port array only. Good. That's good. Computer, run level two diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Port sensor array remains offline.
LAFORGE: Damn.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to La Forge. How's it coming?
LAFORGE: Not good. I think all the control processors are shot. But maybe if I swap the chips from the secondary array, I can give you a minimum EM scan.
RIKER (voiceover): Do it.
LAFORGE: Okay Russell, we're going to try starting retro sensor element thirty two only. You in? Go. The good news is that we have partial long range sensors. La Forge to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
LAFORGE: I'm picking up another echo on the long range sensor display here. You getting that

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): On your panel?
RIKER: Worf?
WORF: One moment, Commander. Confirmed. Sir, the other Romulan ship on an intercept course.
RIKER: Geordi, are we going to have those shields anytime soon?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm doing the best I can

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: But shields won't help if that star explodes.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Data, you seem to have developed an affinity with Elbrun. Troi, you've known him for years. How far can he be trusted?
TROI: Captain, the issue isn't one of trust in Tam's intentions, but in his judgment. I would trust him to do what he believes is right
PICARD: Yes, of course. But his judgment
TROI: Is precarious. The stress of exposure to so many minds on the ship is bad enough. Now he's strongly drawn to this creature. I'm afraid for him.
PICARD: Afraid of what?
TROI: I sense that the alien is somehow calling him. If we allow him to do as he insists, to beam over, I'm believe that we will lose him to it. That he will lose himself.
DATA: Captain, I agree that Tam's motives are trustworthy, and I do not believe it is possible that he will act against us, or will cause Tin Man to act against us out of malice.
TROI: Captain, if Tam breaks down over there, we'll be no closer to accomplishing our mission. It would be a grave mistake.
PICARD: Thank you both.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: I am puzzled, sir. We have come this far. Are you not going to allow Tam to fulfill his mission?
PICARD: Tam Elbrun warned Tin Man. The first thing it did was to destroy a space vessel.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. If you feel the risk is too great to send Tam Elbrun alone, then send me with him.
PICARD: Counselor Troi understands him better.
DATA: But he is more comfortable with me, sir. It is humanity he is fleeing. Sir, I can serve as an intermediary, a bridge back. A reminder of his obligations both to us and to Tin Man.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the Romulan has uncloaked.
PICARD: Status, Number One?
RIKER: Shields are at forty percent. We can maneuver on impulse, sir.
WORF: Phasers available on manual, sir. Computer target lock not functioning.
PICARD: Well, let's hope they're in a mood to talk. Hailing frequency.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Romulan vessel this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
ROMULAN (screen): Enterprise, your presence here is a violation of Romulan space. You will leave immediately.
PICARD: We are not familiar with the terms of your claim on this sector. We're here engaged in scientific research. Do you wish to participate?
ROMULAN (screen): We have monitored the destruction of our sister ship by the star creature. We claim right of vengeance. We will destroy the alien. If you interfere, we will destroy you as well.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Supplemental. A confrontation between the Romulan Warbird and Tin Man is imminent. I have no alternative but to rely on the telepathic abilities of Tam Elbrun.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard to Tam Elbrun.
TAM (voiceover): Captain?
PICARD: Report to transporter room six immediately.
TROI: Captain, I don't
PICARD: Commander Data will meet you there.
TAM (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Counselor, we no longer have a choice.

[Gomtuu corridor]
TAM: No. No. Too much. Too much.
DATA: Tam?
TAM: I can't.
DATA: Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
TAM: No, don't.
DATA: If it is harming you, we must return. Enterprise, respond.
TAM: It's all right. It's all right now. Gomtuu was trying to communicate a lifetime of experiences to me in a few seconds, but I'm all right now.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Chief.
O'BRIEN: I lost the transporter lock on them.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Some kind of force field went up.
WORF: Confirmed. The alien has thrown up a shield. It is blocking all our sensors. Captain, the Romulans' weapons systems are now at full power.
PICARD: Follow them in, Mister Crusher. Red Alert. Mister Worf, arm photon torpedoes.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Gomtuu corridor]
TAM: Yes.
DATA: There is a large chamber twenty meters ahead.
TAM: I know. I know everything now. Come on.

[Pilot chamber]
DATA: Intriguing.
TAM: This is the control center, where Gomtuu's crew guided their journeys. The ship and the crew existed symbiotically. They needed one another. When Gomtuu had no one left to care for, it no longer had a reason to exist.
DATA: Is that the purpose of existence? To care for someone?
TAM: It is for me. Deanna was right. I'll lose myself here.
DATA: I must remind you that our objective is to bring Tin Man out of danger and report our findings to Starfleet.
TAM: I'm not going back, Data. I'm staying here.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Romulans are hailing us.
ROMULAN (screen): Captain Picard, if you interfere with us, we will fire upon you as well.
PICARD: Commander, we are prepared to defend the life of the alien. Screen off. Shields up.
WORF: Power levels aboard the alien are increasing, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, the diameter of the star has decreased by one hundred thousand kilometers.
PICARD: It's beginning.

[Pilot chamber]
TAM: Explain to them. Make them understand.
DATA: But our mission
TAM: Is to save Tin Man. And I will. But he's going to save me as well. All my life I have waited for this. A chance to find peace. Finally all the voices are silent. Only Tin Man speaks to me now. Don't you see, Data? This is where I belong.

[Bridge]
RIKER: That star's going to go any minute, sir.
PICARD: The Romulans know that as well as we do.
WORF: Power levels aboard Tin Man are increasing beyond our sensor range.
PICARD: Conn report.
WESLEY: Dead stop, Captain. Sir, we've been thrown clear of Beta Stromgren. A distance of three point eight billion kilometers.
WORF: There is no sign of Tin Man or the Romulans, sir. Captain, on screen.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Data, what happened over there?
DATA: Difficult to explain, Captain.
TROI: Tam?
DATA: I believe he found what he was looking for, Counselor.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. With all main systems at least temporarily restored, we are proceeding to Starbase one five two for inspection and additional repairs. We have had no further encounter with the Romulans. As for the whereabouts of Tin Man and Tam Elbrun, we can only speculate.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: You sent for me?
DATA: Yes, Counselor. It was Tam's final request that I explain his decision to the crew. But I believe his hope was that you would understand.
TROI: What did happen?
DATA: I witnessed something remarkable. Individually they were both so
TROI: Wounded? Isolated?
DATA: Yes. But no longer. Through joining they have been healed. Grief has been transmuted to joy. Loneliness to belonging.
TROI: Data, you do understand.
DATA: Yes, Counselor. When Tin Man returned me to the Enterprise, I realized this is where I belong.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: I don't want any trouble here, Barclay.
BARCLAY: Trouble? Why would there be trouble?
GUINAN: Because wherever you go, trouble follows.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Barclay, you're on duty.
BARCLAY: Is that a fact?
LAFORGE: It is, and you'll observe it. So get back to your post.
BARCLAY: Look, pal, why don't you do me a favor. Take yourself and your holier than thou attitude and get out of my life.
RIKER: This is insubordination, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: Here's to insubordination.
BARCLAY: Riker, you're nothing but a pretty mannequin in a fancy uniform. You're full of hot air. If Picard has a problem with me, you can tell him to come and talk to me himself.
TROI: I feel your confidence, your arrogant resolve. It excites me.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Lieutenant Barclay, report to Cargo bay five. Now.
BARCLAY: It'll have to wait till later, darling.
TROI: Oh.
BARCLAY: Be right there. Save program.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: I just don't know what to do with him. The guy's always late, he never gives his best effort, just slides by. I'm telling you, I can't deal with it anymore. I mean, how does a guy like that make it through the Academy?
RIKER: I think it's time we talked to the Captain about Broccoli. That's what Wesley calls him. Keep it to yourself.
LAFORGE: It fits.
DUFFY: Commander. A broken seal.
LAFORGE: You'd better destroy it. Those samples'll be tainted.
LAFORGE: Hey! Is it a problem for you to report to duty on time, Lieutenant?
BARCLAY: No. No, sir. I'm, I'm very sorry, sir. It's just I had a very important communiqué which required my immediate response and
LAFORGE: I don't want to hear it. Now, we're having an intermittent problem with this anti-grav unit. I want you to see what you can do.
RIKER: Mister Barclay, I'm tired of seeing your name on report. I don't know what you got away with at your last posting, but this is the Enterprise. We set a different standard here. Understood?
BARCLAY: Understood, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43807.4. We are taking on a load of special tissue samples donated by the Mikulaks for shipment to Nahmi Four. The samples could prove vital to the containment of an outbreak of Correllium Fever on that world.

[Cargo bay]
BARCLAY: Everything looks it looks normal to me.
LAFORGE: Computer, activate anti-grav unit.
O'BRIEN: Damn it.
BARCLAY: I, I don't understand.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. I'll need more people in Cargo Bay Five. Anyone you can spare. La Forge out. We could use a hand, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I'll disassemble it later, Commander. It shouldn't do that. Well, I mean, of course, it shouldn't do that. Well, I mean, it shouldn't do that.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I'm not accustomed to seeing an unsatisfactory rating for one of my crew.
RIKER: I guess the issue is whether Mister Barclay is Enterprise material.
PICARD: I assume from your request for his transfer that you think he's not, Commander.
LAFORGE: I hate to say it but, I always thought I could work with anybody. But I just don't understand this guy. Broccoli makes me nervous, Captain. He makes everybody nervous.
PICARD: Broccoli?
RIKER: Young Mister Crusher started that. I guess it's caught on.
PICARD: Let's just get that uncaught, shall we? There's every indication he's served competently in Starfleet for years. His ratings aboard the Zhukov were satisfactory. In fact I recall Captain Gleason speaking quite highly of him before his transfer.
RIKER: In retrospect, I wonder if Captain Gleason wasn't buttering our bread a little. He knew we were looking for a diagnostic engineer. I've examined Barclay's psychological profile. He's a history of seclusive tendencies. It was noted at the Academy more than once.
PICARD: And yet he chose this way of life. He has made the same commitment to Starfleet that we all have. It's easy to transfer a problem to someone else. Too easy.
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not like I haven't tried.
PICARD: Try harder, Geordi. He's a member of your team. Try to find some way to help him to make a positive contribution. Get to know the man better. Make him your best friend.
LAFORGE: With all respect, sir, my best friend? I can barely tolerate being in the same room with the man.
PICARD: Then I suggest you put your personal discomfort on one side, Commander. Dismissed.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Hey, Reg. How, er, how's it going?
BARCLAY: Oh, it's, er, I still haven't traced down the problem, Commander.
LAFORGE: That's all right. There's no problem.
BARCLAY: I've been planning to run diagnostics on the graviton invertor circuits.
LAFORGE: Smart plan. I'd say we're in good hands here.
BARCLAY: I'll see you get a preliminary report.
LAFORGE: Whenever.
BARCLAY: Before the end of the day.
LAFORGE: Fine. Say, Reg, how about sitting in on the mission briefing with my senior officers in the morning?
BARCLAY: The briefing? Me?
LAFORGE: I'd like your input.
BARCLAY: What on? Do, do, do you want me to prepare a
LAFORGE: No, no, just be there. Eight hundred hours.
BARCLAY: I'll be on time, sir.
LAFORGE: Good. Good. Carry on.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Morning. Start your brains, gentlemen, and let's do it. Has anybody seen Lieutenant Barclay?
DUFFY: Not yet, sir.
LAFORGE: Okay.
LAFORGE: Okay. This trip to Nahmi Four is pretty routine, so we'll have plenty of time to realign the magnetic capacitors on both the matter and anti-matter injectors. Duffy, Costa, that'll be your assignment.
DUFFY: We probably ought to do the flow regulator maintenance at the same time, Commander.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. Ensign Crusher will putting in some hours with us this week as part of his training duties, so I'll be assigning him to assist you, Mister Myers. Be sure and teach him the difference between impulse and warp drive, please. Lieutenant Barclay has working on the mystery of the anti-grav failure we had yesterday. Your preliminary report had a couple of interesting theories, Reg. Why don't you bring us all up to speed on your findings so far.
BARCLAY: Yes. It wasn't a maintenance problem. Everything checked out. I, I'm going to check for a surge in the transfer coils.
WESLEY: A coil surge wouldn't have resulted in field dissipation.
BARCLAY: I, I, I realize that
LAFORGE: But we shouldn't ignore the possibilities, Wes.
WESLEY: You ought to check the flow capacitor. A breakdown of that could have caused a chain collapse of the antigrav fields.
BARCLAY: I, I was going to.
LAFORGE: Good. Okay, then let's go over the realignment procedure. Gentlemen.

[Troi's office]
BARCLAY: I just didn't know what to say.
TROI: What do you wish you had said?
BARCLAY: I should have told him to mind his own damned business. I knew about the flux capacitor. I didn't need to hear about it from some seventeen year old kid.
TROI: You're letting it get you much too upset.
BARCLAY: You think so?
TROI: Why are you so hard on yourself?
BARCLAY: You don't know. It's hard out there.
TROI: I understand, but let go of it. You're here now.
BARCLAY: You're right, of course.
TROI: Of course. Let me help you relax.
BARCLAY: I'd like that.
TROI: I knew you would.
BARCLAY: That's nice, but I'm in the mood for someplace a little more unusual. Computer. Run Barclay program fifteen.

[Holodeck - Glade]
TROI: I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and embrace love, truth, joy.

[Ten Forward]
WESLEY: But I thought that's the point of the briefing. To discuss different approaches.
LAFORGE: It's not that you did anything wrong, Wes. It's just that Barclay's, well, he's my new project.
DUFFY: Yeah, Broccoli's a real project all right.
LAFORGE: I just need to draw him out some more.
WESLEY: And I shut him down. Poor Broccoli.
DATA: Pardon me, but why is Lieutenant Barclay being referred to clandestinely as a vegetable?
WESLEY: It's a joke, Data. You know, a nickname.
DATA: Nicknames generally denote fondness, a diminutive shared between friends.
LAFORGE: Data's absolutely right. The nickname stops here and now. Captain's orders.
DUFFY: What the hell?
WESLEY: What happened to your glass?

[Engineering]
DATA: Nucleosynthesis. The structure of the glass has been altered at the atomic level.
LAFORGE: A problem with the replicator?
DATA: Unlikely. A problem with the replicator would have affected the contents as well as the glass. But the liquid in the glass was a synthehol replication of a light ale of Earth origin, which is, I believe what Lieutenant Duffy ordered.
LAFORGE: I can't detect any residual radiation or unusual chemical compounds that would have caused this.
DATA: The most probable explanation is that the glass came into contact with an unshielded power source.
LAFORGE: That means a complete diagnostic check of the Enterprise power systems. All four thousand of them. Do I have the perfect man for this job. Hey, Reg. Busy?
BARCLAY: Well, I was just. No, not really. Why?
LAFORGE: I've got another mystery for you. Somehow the molecular structure of this cup from Ten Forward has been altered. We need to run through the power systems to see if there's a leak that caused this.
BARCLAY: I had, I was going to do that.
LAFORGE: You were?
BARCLAY: Yes. To, to try to explain the anti-grav unit failure. I still can't. Nothing about it makes sense.
DATA: Then it is possible these two very disparate incidents could be related.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I wouldn't bother you with something this minor, Commander, but it may be a symptom of a more serious problem.
RIKER: Do you think we'll need to put in to a starbase?
LAFORGE: We'll have a better idea after Mister Barclay runs a check on the power systems.
DATA: It was Lieutenant Barclay who first suggested a link between the two incidents.
BARCLAY: What? No, it wasn't. I mean, not really.
PICARD: Will your investigation affect our available power during the mission?
BARCLAY: No, No, sir. We'll have to shut off some systems. We'll shut them down a few at a time. It shouldn't. I don't think so.
PICARD: Good. I look forward to your report, Mister Broccoli. Barclay.
BARCLAY: If you will excuse me.
DATA: Metathesis is one of the most common of pronunciation errors, sir. A reversal of vowel and consonant, Barc to Broc.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Yes, I know him comes in. He stands at the bar. He doesn't say much. He orders a warm milk.
LAFORGE: Figures.
GUINAN: Warm milk helps you sleep, La Forge. You should try it. What's this have to do with Barclay?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'm just trying to figure the man out. Do you ever talk to him?
GUINAN: He doesn't talk much.
LAFORGE: Does he have any friends?
GUINAN: Not that I've seen.
LAFORGE: What do you do with a guy like that?
GUINAN: Well, I just serve him warm milk and let him be.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm not so lucky. I can't let him be. He's my problem.
GUINAN: Well, he's imaginative.
LAFORGE: How do you know that?
GUINAN: I know.
LAFORGE: Well, then maybe he's in the wrong line of work.
GUINAN: You engineering types don't appreciate imagination?
LAFORGE: That's not it, Guinan. He just doesn't fit in here.
GUINAN: Terkim.
LAFORGE: What?
GUINAN: Reminds me of Terkim. My mother's brother. Sort of the family misfit. Everybody told me to stay away from him. Bad influence.
LAFORGE: Did you?
GUINAN: Are you kidding? He was the only member of the family who had a sense of humor. Except no one ever stayed around him long enough to realize it but me. My mother tells me I remind her of him, and I probably do. The idea of fitting in just repels me.
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm not make myself clear, Guinan. Barclay, well, he's always late. The man's nervous. Nobody wants to be around this guy.
GUINAN: If I felt that nobody wanted to be around me, I'd probably be late and nervous too.
LAFORGE: Guinan, that's not the point.
GUINAN: Are you sure? Excuse me.
LAFORGE: Computer, where is Lieutenant Barclay?

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Reg?
LAFORGE: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Good morning, my lord. Manners, my son. Manners. You embarrass me before our guest. Master Barclay will spank you if you misbehave.
LAFORGE: Wesley ?
WESLEY: What do you want?
LAFORGE: Well, I guess I want Master Barclay.
CRUSHER: The boys got into another little scrap, I'm afraid. But boys will be boys.
LAFORGE: You cannot withstand our assault forever, Barclay.
DATA: You are outnumbered, Mister Barclay. Say you will yield and it ends here.
BARCLAY: I will speak with my sword, sir.
PICARD: In God's name, where did you learn to fight like this, man?
BARCLAY: Self taught, my capitaine. Shall I give you a few lessons?
PICARD: Who is that? One of your allies?
BARCLAY: Jean-Luc. Not that old trick. I'm very disappointed in you.

[Ten Forward]
BARCLAY: I'll make it easy for you, Commander. I'll request reassignment.
LAFORGE: Now, wait a minute.
BARCLAY: Look, we both know, the whole ship knows, I just can't cut it here.
LAFORGE: Hey, Barclay, I've spent a few hours on the holodeck too, you know. Now, as far as I'm concerned what you do in the holodeck is your own business, as long as it doesn't interfere with your work.
BARCLAY: You're, you're not going to tell anyone about this?
LAFORGE: I don't think everybody would appreciate your imagination like I do. It is kind of unusual, recreating people you already know.
BARCLAY: well, it was just. I needed to blow off some steam because one, one of the officers had been getting on my back.
LAFORGE: Let me guess.
BARCLAY: It was you, and I just couldn't tell you what I wanted to tell you to your face, so it just sort of got out of control.
LAFORGE: I don't know. There's a part of this that's kind of therapeutic. Maybe you ought to talk to Counselor Troi about it.
BARCLAY: It's, it's, I, when I'm in there I'm just more comfortable. You don't know what a struggle this has been for me, Commander.
LAFORGE: I'd like to help, if I can.
BARCLAY: Being afraid all the time, of forgetting somebody's name, not knowing what to do with your hands. I mean, I'm the guy who writes down things to remember to say when there's a party. And then when he finally get there, he winds up alone in the corner trying to look comfortable examining a potted plant.
LAFORGE: You're just shy, Barclay.
BARCLAY: Just shy. Sounds like nothing serious, doesn't it? You can't know.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): O'Brien to La Forge.
LAFORGE: Go ahead.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I need you in transporter room three, Commander.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: On my way, Chief. Listen, Reg. I really do want you to talk to Counselor Troi.
BARCLAY: Troi? No, no, no, no, no. I couldn't.
LAFORGE: I mean it. As your friend and as your commanding officer.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I was synchronizing the phase transition coils, I didn't do anything I haven't done a hundred times before. The test object is made of pure duranium.
LAFORGE: Seems normal enough to me.
O'BRIEN: Watch this.
LAFORGE: I'm glad I don't have anywhere to go. Chief Engineer's log, stardate 43808.2. A systems analysis of transporter room three has yielded no suggestion of a cause for the latest malfunction aboard the Enterprise.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Is this part of the same pattern?
LAFORGE: We don't know, sir. And we don't know why only transporter room three is affected. None of the other transporter rooms are malfunctioning.
RIKER: Yet.
PICARD: We reach Nahmi Four in twenty two hours. We'll want all transporters operational by then. I want a level one diagnostic across the board.
RIKER: Advise Mister Barclay to join us on the Bridge immediately.
LAFORGE: Could we make that fourteen hundred hours, sir? I've got him working on something.
RIKER: Fourteen hundred hours. Mister O'Brien, no maintenance on the transporters until further notice.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
TROI: I know this is difficult for you. Is there anything I can do to make you more comfortable?
BARCLAY: No.
TROI: Have you ever been with a counselor before?
BARCLAY: Yes. No.
TROI: Which one?
BARCLAY: Yes, but she, it wasn't. It wasn't really a counselor.
TROI: Most people find a counselor intimidating at first. It's okay if you feel that way toward me.
BARCLAY: Not at all.
TROI: Good. Now, lean back, close your eyes.
BARCLAY: Why?
TROI: I want to make you more comfortable.
BARCLAY: You do?
TROI: Yes.
TROI: It's okay. Close your eyes.
BARCLAY: What are you going to do?
TROI: Just listen to the sound of my voice. Take a slow deep breath in through your nose and let it out through your mouth just as slowly. That's better, isn't it?
BARCLAY: Much better. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, that's, that's much better. That is extremely helpful. Thank you for your time.
TROI: But
BARCLAY: Really. That's very helpful. In through the nose, out through the mouth. I'm going to practice that and I'll let you know. Thank you again.

[Bridge]
TROI: I had a very strange visit from one of your officers today.
LAFORGE: Barclay? Yes, I can imagine. Were you able to do anything for him?
TROI: To be honest, I'm not sure what happened.
RIKER: Where is Mister Barclay? It's past fourteen hundred hours.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Barclay, report to the Bridge. Lieutenant Barclay, report.
RIKER: Computer. Locate Lieutenant Barclay.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Barclay is in holodeck two.
LAFORGE: I'll get him.
RIKER: No, I'll handle this. I've had it with him.
LAFORGE: Counselor, you'd better come along.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I think you should know Barclay's been running some unique programs.
RIKER: I don't care what he's been running. I just ran out of patience.

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Like I said, Commander, Barclay's been running some unusual programs.
RIKER: This is a violation of protocol. Crewmembers should not be simulated in the holodeck.
LAFORGE: Commander I don't think there's any regulation against
RIKER: Well there ought to be. Computer, discontinue program and erase.
TROI: Computer, belay that order.
RIKER: Counselor?
TROI: If Barclay is having difficulty facing reality, to suddenly destroy his only means of escape would be brutal and could do considerable damage. HOLO-
HOLO-PICARD: They are quite disagreeable, aren't they? Shall we have at them? HOLO-
HOLO-DATA: Delighted. HOLO-
HOLO-LAFORGE: We shall thrash them. HOLO-
HOLO-PICARD: En garde.
RIKER: Stop it. Put that down. HOLO-
HOLO-DATA: Your sword, sir.
RIKER: I don't have a sword. HOLO-
HOLO-LAFORGE: How do expect to fight without your sword, sir?
RIKER: I don't expect to fight. HOLO-
HOLO-PICARD: Ha! Do I detect a streak of yellow along the good fellow's back? Perhaps we can supply a more appropriate adversary for him. Number One!
WESLEY: Number One! HOLO-
HOLO-RIKER: Here I come. HOLO-
HOLO-RIKER: Am I late? Did I miss the fight? En garde! You, sir, you have a familiar bearing. Is it possible our swords have crossed somewhere before?
RIKER: Where is he? Where's Barclay? HOLO-
HOLO-RIKER: Ah, a personal grudge. I warn you. It would be wise for you to put your affairs in final order before you meet him in combat. You challenge the greatest sword in all the holodeck.
RIKER: You think this is funny?
TROI: You are very tall. It might be threatening to some people.
RIKER: Mister Barclay will find out what it means to be threatened. Computer, discontinue image of Riker. HOLO-
HOLO-PICARD: Sir, you have no sense of fair play.
LAFORGE: Just tell us where to find Barclay.
RIKER: You want us to search through all this to find him?
TROI: It could provide us with valuable information about what's troubling him. You know, there's nothing wrong with a healthy fantasy life, as long as you don't let it take over.
RIKER: You call this healthy?
TROI: You're taking it so seriously. It's not without its element of humor. HOLO-
HOLO-TROI: I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and embrace love, truth, joy.
LAFORGE: Oh, my God. HOLO-
TROI: Discard your facades and reveal your true being to me.
TROI: Computer, discontinue.
RIKER: Computer, belay that order! We want to get more insight into what's been troubling the poor man, remember? Quite a healthy fantasy life, wouldn't you say?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Sir, our velocity increased to warp seven point two five.
DATA: Compensating, sir.
WORF: Confirmed. Velocity now warp seven.
PICARD: Maintain that. What the hell happened?
DATA: The matter-antimatter injectors locked for a split second. I am not certain why, sir. They appear to be working properly now.
PICARD: Picard to La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: Commander, any explanation for this injector problem?

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Well, I'm not in Engineering, sir. I'm in holodeck two.
PICARD (voiceover): Another malfunction?
LAFORGE: Not exactly, but I'll return to Engineering immediately, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, I should say you should, Commander. Your holodeck activities can wait until later. And Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Yes, sir?
PICARD: It would be wise to consult Lieutenant Barclay

[Holodeck - Glade]
PICARD (voiceover): On this latest incident.
LAFORGE: I'd like to very much, Captain. La Forge out. We need to find Barclay now. HOLO-
HOLO-TROI: Cast aside your masks and let me slip into your minds.
TROI: Muzzle it.
CRUSHER: Shh!

[Corridor]
TROI: We have a lot to talk about, Mister Barclay.
LAFORGE: Commander, Barclay and I had better get to Engineering.
RIKER: Dismissed.
BARCLAY: I just couldn't keep my eyes open. I'd worked twelve hours on the power systems and then, then the transporter went down.
LAFORGE: Reg, you had a chance to get some help from the real Counselor Troi but instead you went back in there.
BARCLAY: I know. I didn't want to. I just couldn't help myself.
LAFORGE: You're going to be able to write the book on holodiction. Look, I know how easy it is to get caught up in it. I fell in love in there once.
BARCLAY: Really?
LAFORGE: But I knew when it was time to turn it off and say goodbye. It wasn't easy, but I did it.
BARCLAY: You know, the people I create in there are more real to me than anyone I meet out here, except maybe you, Commander.
LAFORGE: I need you out here, Reg. Now more than ever.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The injectors aren't responding to the diagnostic commands.
BARCLAY: I think we should drop out of warp.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Recommend we go to impulse power, Captain.
PICARD: Take us out of warp.
DATA: Controls are not responding, sir.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: It's the injectors.
LAFORGE: Override.
BARCLAY: It's not a computer problem. The mechanism is physically jammed. I can't clear it.

[Bridge]
DATA: Speed increasing, sir. Warp seven point six, seven point six five. Warp seven point seven.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We can't shut it down, Captain. Antimatter flow is increasing. She's accelerating out of control.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): There's nothing I can do.
WORF: Approaching warp nine sir.
PICARD: Red alert.
RIKER: Estimated time to structural failure.
DATA: At this rate of acceleration, fifteen minutes forty seconds, sir.
RIKER: Did you copy that, Geordi?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, Commander.
RIKER: Recommendations.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'll let you know as soon as we have some. La Forge out. Okay, this ship is going to start tearing itself apart in fifteen minutes. I want every idea on the table. I don't care how outrageous.
DUFFY: What about attempting a magnetic quench on the fusion pre-burners?
LAFORGE: No, I already tried that. The magnetic fields won't reset.
WESLEY: Could the fuel inlet servos be caught in cycle?
LAFORGE: If they were, the swirl dampers would be frozen too and they aren't.
DUFFY: Nothing showed up in the diagnostic sweep at all?
BARCLAY: The tests showed there were problems, I mean no problems with the flow, the flow of the.
LAFORGE: There's nothing wrong with the computer control protocols or the power transfer systems. As far as we can determine, the injectors are just physically jammed.
DUFFY: Injectors freeze, anti-grav unit goes down, and transporter malfunctions.
WESLEY: And a twisted glass.
LAFORGE: What's the connection?

[Bridge]
WORF: Exceeding warp nine point four.
PICARD: Begin evacuation of secondary hull. Prepare for emergency saucer separation.
WORF: Standing by to release docking clamps.
RIKER: Reroute systems to primary hull power sources.
DATA: The plasma flow to the nacelles is uneven due to injector lock. An emergency saucer separation could rupture the warp field.
DATA: Twelve minutes to structural failure, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: None of the systems involved interact directly with each other. I don't see anything in common.
BARCLAY: What if, what if, what if one of us is the connection?
DUFFY: Us? How?
BARCLAY: I don't know, but we're looking for a systemic explanation and there isn't one. We work with all the systems that are affected. What if we're transmitting something ourselves by touching it, or something.
WESLEY: The computer sensors would've picked up anything dangerous.
BARCLAY: But if it were something, something that we couldn't scan, you might've passed it to the injectors when you were realigning the magnetic capacitors.
LAFORGE: It was your glass, Duffy and both of you were present in the cargo bay when the anti-grav failed.
DUFFY: So was O'Brien.
WESLEY: The transporter malfunction. That's a connection too.
COMPUTER: Danger. Approaching safety limits of engine containment field.
LAFORGE: Computer, list all physical substances that wouldn't normally be picked up by an internal scan.
COMPUTER: There are fifteen thousand five hundred twenty five known substances that cannot be detected by standard scans.
LAFORGE: Great. And how many of those can exist in an oxygen atmosphere?
COMPUTER: Five hundred thirty two.
LAFORGE: And could alter molecular structure when it comes in contact with glass.
COMPUTER: Five.
LAFORGE: On screen at this station. Duffy.
BARCLAY: Jakmanite has a half life of fifteen seconds. There wouldn't be enough time to spread it around the ship.
LAFORGE: Right.
WESLEY: Selgninaem and lucovexitrin are highly toxic.
LAFORGE: Yeah, we'd all be dead by now. That leaves saltzgadum and invidium, neither of which has been used for decades.
WESLEY: Could either one of them cause all these malfunctions?
DUFFY: Most of the affected systems weren't even invented when those substances were in use. Who knows what could happen with a transporter or a magnetic capacitor?
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, wasn't invidium used in medical containment fields?
WESLEY: Not for over a century.
BARCLAY: The Mikulaks might still be using it.
DUFFY: And one of those canisters was broken.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. We have a working theory, Captain. There's a good possibility we picked up some Invidium from a broken canister in the cargo bay

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): And have been spreading it around the ship.
RIKER: Working theories are fine, Geordi.

[Corridor]
RIKER (voiceover): But we need a working solution in about five minutes.
LAFORGE: Understood, Commander. We're on our way to cargo bay five for confirmation.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Nothing on the tricorder.
COMPUTER: Danger. Exceeding safety limits of engine containment field. At current acceleration, structural failure will occur in three minutes thirty seconds.
LAFORGE: If it's in there it should show up on one of the polarity channels.
BARCLAY: There it is.
LAFORGE: Duffy and O'Brien picked up the broken canister and became contaminated.
BARCLAY: If we can get it, the invidium, down to minus two hundred degrees Celsius, it'll become inert.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. Invidium has been confirmed.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Recommend we flood the injector pathway conduit with gaseous cryonetrium. That ought to neutralize it.
PICARD: The question is, will the injectors come back online?
LAFORGE (voiceover): They sustained considerable damage, Captain. I can't guarantee that we'll be able to regain control.
RIKER: We don't have much choice, do we?
LAFORGE (voiceover): No, sir.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Engineering]
DUFFY: Route primary coupling through starboard transfer conduit.
WESLEY: Routing. Ready for engine core injection.
COMPUTER: At current acceleration, structural failure will occur in forty five seconds.

[Bridge]
DATA: Injector conduit temperature minus one hundred degrees Celsius.
PICARD: Transfer injector control to manual.
DATA: Ready, sir. Temperature now minus one hundred ninety degrees. Minus two hundred degrees, sir.
RIKER: Injector status?
DATA: Matter injector is online. Antimatter injector still locked.
COMPUTER: At current acceleration, structural failure will occur in thirty seconds.
PICARD: Cycle power through ventral relay.
DATA: Antimatter injector online. Reducing flow capacity. Commencing warp engine shut down, sir.
PICARD: Stand down from red alert.
RIKER: Nice work, Geordi.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Mister Barclay and I thank you, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: The ship has been seriously contaminated with invidium, sir. Recommend we set course for Starbase one two one for a complete systems and bio-decontamination.
PICARD (voiceover): Understood. Picard out.
LAFORGE: Glad you were with us out here in the real world today, Mister Barclay.

[Bridge]
BARCLAY: It has been most difficult to reach this decision to leave you, but after thinking about it and discussing it at length with Counselor Troi, I think it's for the best. I just wanted to thank you all for your support.
LAFORGE: You'll always be welcome here, Reg.
BARCLAY: I know. That's why it's so difficult to leave.
PICARD: It was a pleasure to serve with you, Mister Barclay.
TROI: Good luck, Reg.
BARCLAY: It's been fun. Computer, end program.
BARCLAY: Erase all programs filed under Reginald Barclay. Except program nine.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43872.2. In order to neutralize a sudden contamination of the water supply at the Federation colony on Beta Agni Two, we are procuring one hundred and eight kilos of hytritium from the Zibalian trader, Kivas Fajo. Because pure hytritium is too unstable for our transporters, Lieutenant Commander Data has been shuttling the material to the Enterprise.

[Jovis Cargo bay]
DATA: Data to Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA: This will be the last trip, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): The remaining cases of hytritium are now being loaded.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Mister Worf, advise Beta Agni Two that our departure is imminent.
WORF: Aye, Captain.
RIKER: At warp six, we should be there in just over sixteen hours.

[Jovis Cargo bay]
DATA: Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking, level one precautions for incoming material remain in effect.
VARRIA: If you'll just acknowledge this last load, Commander>
VARRIA: Twenty six point eight kilos of tripolymer composites. Eleven point eight kilos of molybdenum-cobalt alloy. One point three kilos Bioplast sheeting.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Shuttle twelve containment field reads nominal. Now leaving the Jovis.
PICARD: On viewer.
LAFORGE: Containment field stable. Gravitational fluctuations within acceptable parameters. Flight pattern
WORF: Data.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. As the result of a yet unexplained shuttle explosion, Lieutenant Commander Data has been lost.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Why didn't the containment field hold?
LAFORGE: Unknown, Commander.
PICARD: Hail the Jovis. I want to speak with Kivas Fajo.
WORF: Sir, Mister Fajo is hailing us.
PICARD: On viewer.
FAJO (screen): Captain Picard, what happened?
PICARD: It's unclear. We're running a full analysis.
FAJO (screen): We detected no malfunctions before the explosion. Everything seemed to be running as smoothly as the other flights. Were you able to save the pilot?
PICARD: No.
FAJO (screen): I'm sorry.
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I would like to analyze your sensor readings of the explosion.
FAJO (screen): Compared to the Enterprise's, our sensors are rather primitive. I doubt they contain any information that your sensors overlooked.
PICARD: Perhaps, but I don't want to leave any avenue unexplored.
FAJO (screen): I understand. We'll transmit the information.
WORF: Link established. Receiving.
FAJO (screen): Can we be of any further assistance?
PICARD: How much hytritium did we manage to bring on board?
RIKER: Eighty one kilos.
LAFORGE: That will barely allow us to complete our mission, Captain, but it leaves us no margin for error.
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I realize we have acquired your complete supply of hytritium. Do you know where we could obtain some more?
FAJO (screen): That may be difficult. The only source I know is in the Sigma Erani system.
RIKER: Three weeks away, sir.
FAJO (screen): And I can't guarantee they'll have any. For obvious reasons, no one wants to keep it around. In fact, even I may stop selling it. It's just too dangerous.
RIKER: I guess we're fortunate you had any at all, sir.
WORF: Captain, transfer of information complete.
PICARD: Mister Fajo, thank you for your help.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set a course for the Beta Agni Two system, warp six.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: The Grissom is near the Sigma Erani system. I'll alert them to stand by in case we need more hytritium.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One.
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Fajo's den]
DATA: What am I doing here?
FAJO: Wondrous. The detail. The balance. Was I not right, Varria? What a remarkable piece of work.
DATA: Why have I been brought here?
FAJO: The voice simulation. it's perfection. The inflections, the timing.
FAJO: It took great effort. Effort. to bring you here. I was sure he'd be worth it. I was right.
DATA: I've been delivered here against my wishes. I would like to know the reason.
FAJO: Certainly. You have been brought here for my enjoyment and my appreciation.
DATA: Am I to infer that you intend to keep me captive?
FAJO: Captive? Captive? That's such an inappropriate description. My dear android. May I call you Data?
DATA: It is my name.
FAJO: Data. You will be catered to, fawned over, cared for as you never have been before. Your every wish will be fulfilled
DATA: I wish to leave.
FAJO: Almost every wish.
DATA: This is unacceptable, sir. I have no desire to remain here and even if I did, my Starfleet duties would not allow it.
FAJO: It's so single minded, isn't it?
VARRIA: Very persistent.
FAJO: But it's very polite, which is a very nice touch. I decline to allow you to go.
DATA: Then I am forced to attempt escape.
FAJO: Ten androids just like you might be able to force that thing open. But then again, there aren't any more just like you, are there? It's keyed to galvanic skin responses and DNA patterns. Sorry.
DATA: Then you will have to open it for me.
FAJO: Oh. Really, I wouldn't do that again if I were you. This is a proximity-actuated field. It impedes positron flow. It's very bad for the brainpaths in the long term.
DATA: I fail to understand the value you place on my presence.
FAJO: Well, just look around the room. There are items her gathered from half the galaxy. Right here. This is the very first Basotile ever created. Sorry. It's very, very ancient. Hundreds of years old. It's priceless.
FAJO: Come. This vase is made by Mark, the late Mark Off-Zel from Sirrie Four. Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris trading card from Earth circa 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've preserved the scent. What? A Lapling.
DATA: I thought they were extinct.
FAJO: Extinct? Good. That is what is generally believed. She is the last surviving member of her species. They're very defenseless creatures, really. Everything that you see in the room here, everything. One of its kind. Unique. All original. Just as you are. There. That is your place of honor. Sit, sit. Sit! You think perhaps it might be uncomfortable? But then again, you don't give a thought to comfort, do you. When Palor Toff learns of that, he'll swallow his tongue with envy. I can't wait to see his face. You are the crown jewel of my collection. You're a treasure beyond comparison.
VARRIA: Yes, go ahead.
FAJO: I think you should be flattered.
DATA: I am not, sir. Most intelligent lifeforms find involuntary confinement offensive and inequitable. Moreover, you have violated Federation law
FAJO: I know, I know. What I've done is evil, selfish, immoral, unprincipled, illegal. Well, I've learned to live with it.
VARRIA: The Andorians wish to make a bid on the shipment of Tellurian spices you offered.
FAJO: They've had four days to decide! Why do they have to decide right! Sorry.
DATA: I must emphasize, Mister Fajo, that I consider this captivity a hostile act on your part.
FAJO: You'll get used to it.

[Data's quarters]
WESLEY: I can't believe he's gone.
LAFORGE: I always thought he'd outlive us, by centuries.
WESLEY: He'd been working on this for months. He never felt it was quite finished.
LAFORGE: You know what a critic Data was, especially about his own work.
WESLEY: That was a gift from the Captain.
LAFORGE: And he should have it back.
WESLEY: Those should go to Commander Riker.
LAFORGE: Data always fell for Riker's bluffs.
WESLEY: These are some of Starfleet's highest honors.
LAFORGE: Not bad for a walking pile of circuitry and memory cells.
LAFORGE: You know, I keep going over and over the accident in my mind, trying to figure out what went wrong. I can see Data in the shuttle, almost like I'm sitting there next to him going through the departure sequence. What the hell happened? Why didn't I see it coming? What am I missing?

[Fajo's den]
VARRIA: Kivas wishes you to wear this set of clothes, and to sit in your chair.
DATA: I have no reason to accede to Mister Fajo's wishes.
VARRIA: He will give you reasons if you force him to.
DATA: Mister Fajo is deluding himself if he believes he can keep me here. The Enterprise is certain to find me.
VARRIA: They're not even looking for you. They think you're destroyed. Your shuttle blew up. A hytritium explosion.
DATA: They will scan the debris and discover I was not aboard.
VARRIA: They'll find exactly what they thought they'd find. Traces of your component elements. We put them aboard the shuttle in just the right proportions.
DATA: Clearly, Mister Fajo has no moral difficulty with my imprisonment here.
VARRIA: Mister Fajo has no moral difficulties at all.
DATA: Do you?
VARRIA: Clever, android. Is it part of your program to seek out vulnerabilities in your enemies?
DATA: Yes. Are you my enemy?
VARRIA: I obey Fajo. And so does everyone on this ship.
DATA: Why?
VARRIA: You are a curious thing, aren't you?
DATA: Do you object to the question?
VARRIA: Kivas finds a way to get what he wants from his people. His rewards for loyalty are lavish. His punishments for disloyalty are equally lavish. You won't find anyone here on this ship to help you escape. Face it, android. He has you.
DATA: It appears he has us both.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: The reason I can't find anything is that there's nothing there to find. I've run this analysis dozens of times over and there's just no indication of any malfunction.
RIKER: No possible explanation at all?
LAFORGE: Yeah, there's one, but I don't believe it. Pilot error.
PICARD: I know it's hard to accept, but even the best
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not only hard to accept, with Data it's impossible. I mean, I can't even begin to calculate the odds. If Data were here, we could ask him.
PICARD: What are you suggesting, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It just doesn't make sense, and I like things to make sense, that's all.
RIKER: Geordi, maybe if you get a little rest and came at this thing fresh.
LAFORGE: A little rest isn't going to change the computer analysis, Commander.
PICARD: I'm sure you have done a complete investigation, and if you wish to continue it, of course you have my support. But we shall be reaching the Beta Agni system shortly, and I expect you to be rested.
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi, I understand how much we want, even need, to explain an accident like this. Sometimes there just aren't any explanations.
RIKER: For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them in others.
PICARD: We must select an officer to replace Data at Ops. Recommendations?
RIKER: Worf would be my first choice, sir.
PICARD: Mine as well. Make it so.
PICARD: He was a man, taken for all in all. I shall not look upon his like again.

[Fajo's den]
FAJO: You are still wearing that uniform. Why?
DATA: I am a Starfleet officer.
FAJO: You are not in Starfleet any longer. It's time you adjusted your program to accept reality.
DATA: Even if I chose to do so, it is doubtful that my programming could be sufficiently altered to accede to your wishes.
FAJO: Oh?
DATA: I have been designed with a fundamental respect for life in all its forms and a strong inhibition against causing harm to living beings.
FAJO: What a marvelous contradiction. A military pacifist. Tell me, whose dreadful decision was it to enlist you in Starfleet to begin with?
DATA: My skills seemed appropriate
FAJO: Data, Data, Data. Big mistake. A grievous error. You belong in Starfleet about as much as I belong in a verbal contract. Tell me, have you killed yet?
DATA: No, but I am programmed with the ability to use deadly force in the cause of defense.
FAJO: Shame on you. Shame on you. How neatly you rationalize your capabilities. How can you just casually accept your role in murder?
DATA: I would not participate in murder. Perhaps you misunderstand.
FAJO: Can't you see how much better it will be for you right here? The intellectual rewards alone. Our personal exploration of the galaxy. I am at war with no one. I am your liberator.
DATA: You are a fine debater, sir. It is a pity you have used your verbal gifts for mere hucksterism and the advancement of your own greed.
FAJO: Perhaps. Perhaps you would not judge me so harshly if you knew of my desperate youth, wasted, wasted on the streets of Zimballia.
DATA: Your past does not excuse unethical or immoral behavior, sir.
FAJO: Well, it doesn't matter. It isn't true anyway. My father was quite wealthy, actually. He was a thief. Data, why don't you put on these lovely new clothes and sit on the chair.
DATA: I must decline.
FAJO: You are going to be much more of a challenge than I had first thought. Finoplak, one hundred denkirs. Now, Data, in the meantime, here is something for your logic circuits to analyze.
FAJO: Oh, don't worry. The solvent won't harm your, your skin. But in seconds it will completely dissolve that uniform. Personally, I'd be delighted to see you go around naked. I assume you have no modesty. But, then, I guess that decency is the rule of your Starfleet training. In any case, Data, why don't you make a decision about which alternative you dislike the least. Make a decision by dinnertime tonight. I have invited a guest to meet you, and I expect you to be as entertaining with him as you have been with me.

[Geordi's quarters]
DATA (voiceover): Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
LAFORGE: I did miss something.

[Corridor]
TROI: See you later. Your first watch at Ops?
WORF: I have served at the position before.
TROI: I've been concerned about you.
WORF: About me? Why?
TROI: Because I know how I'd feel if I was asked to replace Data at his station.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge. Promotion due to the death of a crewmate is commonplace on Klingon ships.
TROI: I know, but this isn't a Klingon ship and Data was your friend. And it's the second time you've replaced a crewmate who's died.
WORF: I honor Data's memory, as I did Lieutenant Yar's, by attempting to perform their duties as well as they did.
TROI: In true Klingon fashion.
WORF: I appreciate your concern.

[La Forge's office]
LAFORGE: Computer, now replay shuttle audio transmission time index zero four two three. This is Data's second trip.
DATA (voiceover): Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. Shuttle has cleared the Jovis cargo bay.
WESLEY: Sounds just like the first trip.
LAFORGE: Exactly the same. That's protocol. And that's Data. Following protocol to the letter. Okay, computer, now replay shuttle audio transmission, time index zero four three nine. Third and final trip.
DATA (voiceover): Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
LAFORGE: That's it. That's the last communication.
WESLEY: He didn't report the shuttle clearing the cargo bay of the Jovis.
LAFORGE: Of course, there really wasn't any reason for him to make voice contact. He knew we'd be monitoring his position. Any other pilot might not bother, but Data? not following standard procedures?
WESLEY: What do you think it means?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Wes. I suppose he could've been too busy. Maybe he saw something was wrong.
WESLEY: Without communicating it? That doesn't sound like Data either.
LAFORGE: Which means maybe something was wrong with him. But there's no other indication of that. Nothing he said or did during the entire mission. None. I sure wish I could talk to the last people who saw him alive.

[Fajo's den]
TOFF: I've added a Veltan sex idol to my collection.
FAJO: I've got four of them.
TOFF: What? With the pearls intact?
FAJO: Please. Pearls were added by the Ferengi agents to increase the value.
TOFF: What is that? Something new? And you didn't tell me.
FAJO: Mister Data, I'm delighted to see that you dressed for the occasion. Say hello to my very good friend, Palor Toff.
FAJO: Data, say hello. No need to be shy.
TOFF: It's a mannequin of some sort.
FAJO: This is not a mannequin. This is Data. This is formerly Lieutenant Commander Data of the Federation Starfleet. The only sentient android in existence.
TOFF: It doesn't seem particularly sentient right now.
FAJO: That's because it's playing a stupid little game with us.
TOFF: Well, someone has certainly played a game on you, Fajo.
FAJO: I don't find this amusing. I demand that you behave normally. Behave normally! I know you can hear me!
TOFF: He falls well.
FAJO: I apologize for this.
TOFF: Do not be upset, my friend. I'm having a delightful visit. Come along, Varria. You're much more fun to play with than Fajo's new toy.
FAJO: You'll regret this.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now entering the Beta Agni system, sir.
RIKER: Take us to half impulse, Mister Crusher.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: A class two probe has been loaded with the hytritium compound and is ready to launch.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now approaching Beta Agni Two, sir.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, put us into close orbit. Mister Data, scan. My apologies, Mister Worf. Scan the colony's subsurface water.
WORF: Scanning. Tricyanate contamination confirmed. Levels approaching forty two parts per million.
RIKER: Area affected?
WORF: Thirty square kilometers.
PICARD: Any indication of the source?
WORF: Highest concentration eight kilometers west of the colony.
RIKER: Adjust target coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: According to these figures, the eighty one kilos

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Of hytritium should be enough to neutralize the contamination.
WESLEY: Now approaching target coordinates.
PICARD: Launch probe.
WORF: Probe on target. Hytritium entering water table. Disbursement slightly faster than expected. Sir, something unusual.
PICARD: Specify.
WORF: I'm getting concentrated tricyanate readings of seventy grams per cubic centimeter at the source coordinates. Much higher than would normally occur.
PICARD: Computer, report on geologic instability on Beta Agni Two.
COMPUTER: No significant geological activity has been recorded on Beta Agni Two since the settlement of the Federation colony.
PICARD: Number One, perhaps you'd better take an away team down and have a closer look.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Doctor Crusher, join me in Transporter room three.
CRUSHER (voiceover): On my way.
RIKER: Mister Worf?

[Fajo's den]
FAJO: I would very much like our relationship to change.
DATA: You may expect me to use every means at my disposal to resist your wishes.
FAJO: Why can't you just comply? Why do you argue all the time? Couldn't you just go sit on the chair? Come on. Go on, sit on the chair.
DATA: I do not intend to sit in the chair.
FAJO: You will. You may believe it right now, but you will.
FAJO: Have you ever seen one of these, Data?
DATA: It is a disruptor.
FAJO: Well, no. It's a prototype for a Varon-T disruptor.
DATA: The Varon-T disruptor is banned in the Federation.
FAJO: Oh, yes. They only manufactured five of them. I own four. I sleep with one under my pillow at night, and I sleep very well knowing it's there too. Do you know why?
DATA: It is a most lethal weapon.
FAJO: It's not just lethal. It's vicious. It tears a body apart, inside out, and very slowly too by your phaser standards. It's tortuous. A very, very painful death. I've always wanted to try this.
DATA: It is doubtful you will destroy me since you assign so much value to possessing me.
FAJO: That goes without saying. Please come in.
FAJO: Varria, how long have we been together, my dear?
VARRIA: Fourteen years.
FAJO: Fourteen wonderful years they were too. She was barely an adult when I found her. She was idealistic, naive, full of dreams. And I made those dreams come true, too, didn't I? I'm going to miss you.
DATA: Fajo.

[Beta Agni Two]
CRUSHER: The contamination's been neutralized. The water's clean.
WORF: Curious. The process of neutralization should have taken several hours. Naturally occurring tricyanate does not respond this quickly.
RIKER: Are you saying it's not naturally occurring?
WORF: There are no natural trace elements present in these tricyanate crystals.
RIKER: If it's artificial, then we're talking about sabotage.
CRUSHER: With tricyanate? That's hard to believe. It's slow to assimilate, difficult to replicate, and hard to transport. There are a lot easier ways to poison a water supply. More effective ways too.
RIKER: Can you think of any reason a saboteur would choose tricyanate?
CRUSHER: It might pass for a natural disaster. And since there's only one way to treat it, with hytritium, maybe somebody figured we couldn't locate it. It is hard to find.
RIKER: Then it really was lucky, wasn't it, that we were able to find hytritium when we did. And just enough hytritium for this crisis?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Fajo was in the right place at the right time just when we needed him most.
PICARD: You're suggesting he created the problem just to solve it?
RIKER: Possibly.
LAFORGE: What, to make a profit from his sale of hytritium?
CRUSHER: It doesn't add up. The cost of producing tricyanate is very expensive. He wouldn't make a profit on it. Quite the contrary.
WORF: Then, why would he do it?
RIKER: What could he want?
PICARD: Computer, biographical file on trader Kivas Fajo.
COMPUTER: Accessing file Kivas Fajo. A Zibalian trader of the Stacius trade guild, educated on Iraaten Five. A noted collector of rare and valuable objects including the Rejac Crystal, the Starry Night by Van Gogh, the Lawmim Galactopedia, the Moliam Andi tapestries
PICARD: Computer, that is sufficient.
RIKER: A rare and valuable object?
LAFORGE: What if Data wasn't on that shuttle?
PICARD: Mister Crusher.
WESLEY (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Set course for the site of the shuttlepod explosion. Warp eight.
WESLEY (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: The Jovis has a maximum speed of warp three. He's had twenty three hours so we can define a perimeter of point one oh two light years as his possible distance.
RIKER: Fajo doesn't know that we're onto him, so he probably isn't taxing his engines at top speed.
WESLEY: He could have made it to the Nel Bato system, or maybe even the Giles Belt.
PICARD: He's a trader. He doesn't attract customers by being hard to find.
RIKER: We could put out a coded level two query to all Federation outposts within the perimeter.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Fajo's den]
VARRIA: If I help you escape, will you take me with you? He's sleeping, and there isn't much time.
DATA: The consequences if we are caught
VARRIA: I know the consequences. Fourteen years. You learn a few things. There's an escape pod in the aft cargo bay.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, affirmative response from station Lya Four.
RIKER: Fajo spent more than half a day in orbit. Departed just over seven hours ago.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, new coordinates. Lay in a course for Lya Four.
WESLEY: Coordinates already laid in, sir.

[Jovis Cargo bay]
DATA: Perhaps I should attempt to communicate with the Enterprise.
VARRIA: You can't. Fajo has communications access restricted to the bridge. Once we're out, the shuttlepod will emit an emergency beacon. We'll just have to hope somebody responds before Fajo is able to destroy us.
DATA: I am trained in evasive maneuvers.
VARRIA: We'll need a few. Let's get going. As soon as I start the escape sequence, an alarm will sound. We won't have much time.
FAJO: It's your fault. You knew the price for disobedience. And so did she. Well, there's always another Varria.
FAJO: You won't hurt me. Fundamental respect for all living beings. That is what you said. I'm a living being, therefore you can't harm me.
DATA: You will surrender yourself to the authorities.
FAJO: Or what? You'll fire? Empty threat and we both know it. Why don't you accept your fate? You will return to your chair and you will sit there. You will entertain me and you will entertain my guests. And if you do not, I will simply kill somebody else. Him, perhaps. It doesn't matter. Their blood will be on your hands too, just like poor Varria's. Your only alternative, Data, is to fire. Murder me. That's all you have to do. Go ahead. Fire. If only you could feel rage over Varria's death. If only you could feel the need for revenge, then maybe you could fire. But you're just an android. You can't feel anything, can you? It's just another interesting intellectual puzzle for you. Another of life's curiosities.
DATA: I cannot permit this to continue.
FAJO: Wait. Your program won't allow you to fire. You cannot fire. No.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a weapon in transit with Commander Data. It seems to have discharged, sir.
RIKER: Discharged?
O'BRIEN: I'm deactivating it.
RIKER: Welcome back, Mister Data. Are you all right?
DATA: Yes, Commander. Please arrange to take Kivas Fajo into custody on charges of murder, kidnapping, theft.
RIKER: The arrangements have already been made.
DATA: A Varon-T disruptor. It belongs to Fajo.
RIKER: Mister O'Brien says the weapon was in a state of discharge.
DATA: Perhaps something occurred during transport, Commander.

[Brig]
FAJO: Oh, have you come to see me to repent? Is this your final satisfaction? Want to see me beg for mercy? You're not going to get any of that from me.
DATA: I expected nothing.
FAJO: Our roles are reversed, aren't they, Data? You're the collector now. Me, I'm in a cage.
DATA: So it seems.
FAJO: Just don't count me out too quickly. I had you in my collection once. I can have you there again.
DATA: Unlikely, sir. Your collection has been confiscated. All of your stolen possessions are being returned to their rightful owners. You have lost everything you value.
FAJO: It must give you great pleasure.
DATA: No, sir, it does not. I do not feel pleasure. I am only an android.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43917.4 The Enterprise has been given the singular honor of hosting the first meeting between the Federation and a mysterious race known as the Legarans. We are in orbit around Vulcan, preparing to welcome aboard Federation Ambassador Sarek and his wife Perrin, who like his first wife, is from Earth.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I remember studying his career in school. The treaty of Alpha Cygnus Nine, the Coridan admission to the Federation, the Klingon Alliance.
PICARD: I met him once, many years ago, very briefly at his son's wedding. I can tell you that was quite a moment for a young lieutenant, standing in the presence of such history. I remember he spoke to me and I just stood there grinning like an idiot.
RIKER: You? Tongue-tied?
PICARD: Indeed. How do you make small talk with someone who shaped the Federation?
RIKER: Is it true that he'll be retiring after this mission?
PICARD: Unofficially, that's what I hear. What a crowning achievement for his career. The benefits of relations with the Legarans are incalculable.

[Transporter room]
MENDROSSEN: Ah Captain Picard. I am Ki Mendrossen, the ambassador's chief of staff. This is Sakkath, his personal assistant.
PICARD: Has the ambassador been delayed?
MENDROSSEN: He will be joining us momentarily. But first we must discuss some matters of the utmost delicacy.
PICARD: Please go ahead.
MENDROSSEN: To be frank, Captain, the ambassador is not a young man. He tires easily.
SAKKATH: He's going to need a lot of rest to prepare himself for the difficult job that awaits him.
MENDROSSEN: Which is why it is imperative that he be allowed to conserve his strength. I must request that you dispense with any formal activities normally associated with a visitor of his rank.
RIKER: We had planned a ship's concert this evening.
PICARD: I believe the Ambassador is extremely fond of Mozart.
MENDROSSEN: I'm afraid it would be impossible for him to attend. Upon his arrival he will be taken directly to his quarters where he will remain in seclusion until we reach Legara Four.
PICARD: You have my assurance that the Ambassador will not be disturbed during the voyage.
MENDROSSEN: That's all we ask. Well, now that's settled, the Ambassador is waiting.
PICARD: Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Ambassador Sarek.
SAREK: We come to serve.
PICARD: Your service honors us.
SAREK: Allow me to present she who is my wife.
PICARD: Mrs. Sarek.
PERRIN: Please call me Perrin, Captain.
PICARD: This is my first officer, Commander William Riker.
PERRIN: Captain, would you be so kind as to show us to our quarters?
SAREK: I prefer to view the conference room first.
MENDROSSEN: Ambassador, I'm sure Sakkath and I can handle all the necessary details.
SAREK: I will examine it for myself.
PERRIN: Perhaps it would be best if we settled in first.
SAREK: They worry about my health, Captain. Too much. You will take me to the conference room, please.
RIKER: If you'll follow me, sir.

[Conference room]
WESLEY: Are the Legarans really going to sit in this stuff?
LAFORGE: Well, I'm sure not.
WESLEY: Can you believe this smell?
LAFORGE: What smell? What can I say? To us it's a slime pit, but to them it's home.
WESLEY: Okay, the environmental controls are ready. What's next?
LAFORGE: What, are you in some kind of hurry or something?
WESLEY: Yeah, I have a date.
LAFORGE: A date? With who?
WESLEY: Ensign Dumont.
LAFORGE: Really? She's very attractive. I've got to admit, Wes, I'm a bit surprised.
WESLEY: What, that she'd go out with me?
LAFORGE: No, that you'd actually have the nerve to ask her. Way to go.
SAREK: The room is not ready.
PICARD: No Ambassador. Commander La Forge and Ensign Crusher are
SAREK: The Legarans are very sensitive in matters of protocol. You will remove all the furniture from the room. The walls must be bare.
MENDROSSEN: I'm sure everything will be set up according to our specifications before the Legarans arrive. Isn't that right, Captain?
PICARD: I assure you, Ambassador, everything will be ready before the conference begins.
PERRIN: My husband and I have every confidence in you, Captain.
SAREK: I have worked for ninety three years in preparation for this meeting. It is vital that no detail be overlooked.
SAKKATH: Perhaps we should allow these gentlemen to return to their work, Ambassador.
SAREK: That will be acceptable. These walls are too bright.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The way Mendrossen described him, I expected to see a frail old man.
PICARD: I hope I'm that frail when I'm two hundred and two years old. But his aides did seem to be a little overprotective, didn't they?
RIKER: From what I could see, the Ambassador doesn't need to be protected from anything.
PICARD: Well, we'll respect Mister Mendrossen's request and allow Ambassador Sarek his privacy. I suppose they were foolish and vain, my expectations of this voyage. Sharing his thoughts, memories, his unique understanding of the history he's made.
TROI: Does this mean you're going to cancel the concert this evening?
PICARD: No, the concert will ahead as scheduled. But it's a pity that the guest of honor will be absent.
RIKER: For all we know, the Ambassador might enjoy an evening's entertainment
TROI: Why not ask his wife if she'd like to attend?
PICARD: That's an excellent idea, Counselor. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Guest quarters]
PERRIN: Come in.
PICARD: I hope I'm not intruding.
PERRIN: Not at all, Captain, but Sarek is in meditation at the moment.
PICARD: Actually, I came to see you.
PERRIN: Well, how nice. I so rarely get visitors of my own. Usually everyone wants to see the Ambassador.
PICARD: I find that hard to believe. Thank you.
PERRIN: These quarters are quite comfortable. The Ambassador and I were very pleased when we heard that the negotiations were going to take place aboard the flagship of the Federation.
PICARD: The honor is ours.
PERRIN: My husband has taken an interest in your career. He finds it to be satisfactory.
PICARD: My word! High praise from a Vulcan.
PERRIN: Some people who expect an emotional response often find Vulcans quite cold when they are merely being
PICARD: Logical.
PERRIN: Exactly.
PICARD: I came to invite you, and your husband if he is available, to a Mozart recital this evening.
PERRIN: What a tempting offer. I doubt that the Ambassador will be able to attend, but I will make it a point to ask him.
PICARD: Well, then I hope to see you tonight.
PERRIN: As do I.

[Guest quarters - bedroom]
PERRIN: You are still unable to meditate?
SAREK: It is of no importance.
PERRIN: It has eluded you for many weeks.
SAREK: I said it is of no importance.
PERRIN: You know I am right.
SAREK: My wife, you will leave me now. I require solitude.

[Conference room]
WESLEY: The temperature in the tank is now one hundred fifty degrees Celsius.
LAFORGE: Okay, lock it off.
WESLEY: Is that it? Can I get out of here now?
LAFORGE: What's your hurry? You don't really think something's going to happen with Suzanne Dumont, do you?
WESLEY: At least I'm not spending the night with a good book like some people.
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean?
WESLEY: Just what it sounds like.
LAFORGE: Let me tell you something. You'd get more action out of a good book than you'll ever see on this date, I'll guarantee it. She's not going to waste her time on someone like you.
WESLEY: Someone like me?
LAFORGE: She's way out of your league.
WESLEY: Since when did you become an expert on women?
LAFORGE: Compared to you, every male on this ship is an expert on women.
WESLEY: Well at least I don't have to find my women on the holodeck!
LAFORGE: What did you say?
WESLEY: You heard me!
LAFORGE: Yeah, I heard you. Just what do you think is going to stop
RIKER: Something wrong? I asked a question.
LAFORGE: No, sir. Nothing wrong here.
WESLEY: May I be excused, Commander?
RIKER: Anything you'd like to talk about, Geordi?
LAFORGE: No, sir.

[Ship's theater]
PICARD: I noticed that Lieutenant Worf put Ensign D'Amato on report for insubordination.
RIKER: D'Amato's been an exemplary officer.
PICARD: Indeed he has. Would you look into it, Number One.
RIKER: Of course.
PICARD: Good evening.
CRUSHER: Good evening.
PICARD: I assume the work is progressing on the conference room?
RIKER: Yes, I checked in with Wesley and Geordi a few hours ago. There was a moment when I actually thought that the two of them were going to hit one each other.
PICARD: Ambassador Sarek, Perrin, on behalf of the entire crew, welcome.
SAREK: It was my wife's suggestion that we attend. It seemed an ideal diversion. Perrin can be quite logical, when she so chooses.
MENDROSSEN: It seems that the Ambassador had more free time than I anticipated.
PICARD: Commander Data will be our featured soloist this evening.
DATA: I have been programmed to reproduce the individual musical styles of over three hundred concert violinists, including Heifetz, Menuhin, Grak-tay and Tataglia. Do you have a preference?
PERRIN: Tataglia would be lovely.
DATA: I hope you find the performance pleasing.
PERRIN: I look forward to it.
PICARD: At your convenience, Mister Data. Please.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: Hi Mom. I got a message you wanted to see me?
CRUSHER: I thought you were going to be at the concert last night.
WESLEY: I said I may be going. Suzanne wanted to go to the arboretum.
CRUSHER: Captain Picard asked me where you were. I don't like making excuses for you.
WESLEY: Excuses? Come on, Mom. It wasn't an official function.
CRUSHER: Listen, young man. You have responsibilities and I want you to live up to them.
WESLEY: Don't you think you're overreacting a little?
CRUSHER: Don't talk back to me!
WESLEY: Okay, I won't.
CRUSHER: Where do you think you're going?
WESLEY: Away from you.

[Troi's office]
CRUSHER: And then I just slapped him. Really hard. I slapped Wesley.
TROI: Do you know why you did it?
CRUSHER: I've never hit my son in his life.
TROI: Beverly, this is important. What were you thinking when you hit Wes?
CRUSHER: I wasn't thinking about anything. I was just angry.
TROI: And Wesley didn't provoke you in any way? It wasn't anything he said, or anything he did?
CRUSHER: No, that's just it. It was a sudden burst of anger. I still can't believe I did it.
TROI: I don't know why you did it either, but I can tell you that I've heard the same kind of story from ten different people over the last two days.

[Bridge]
SAKKATH: This is your command center.
DATA: Yes. It is normally occupied by Captain Picard, Commander Riker, and Counselor Troi.
SAKKATH: Counselor Troi is a Betazoid?
DATA: Half-Betazoid. Her father was human.
SAKKATH: Then she is not a true telepath?
DATA: Her skills are empathic in nature. She is able to sense the emotions of other beings.
SAKKATH: What is Captain Picard's background in diplomacy?
DATA: Extensive. The Captain's first diplomatic contact dates back to
SAKKATH: And what of his knowledge of the Legarans? Would he be able to conduct negotiations with them should the need arise?
DATA: Do you foresee such a circumstance occurring? Is Ambassador Sarek unable to
SAKKATH: Forgive me. I was merely exploring various possible permutations of our mission. Your tour of the Bridge has been most informative.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Excuse me, we were sitting here.
CREWMAN: Well we're sitting here now.
O'BRIEN: Come on, fella. This is our table.
CREWMAN: Really? Funny, I don't see your name on it.
O'BRIEN: Didn't your mother teach you manners?
LAFORGE: Hey, hey guys. Is there some kind of problem here?
O'BRIEN: There seems to be a question of who's table this is.
LAFORGE: There are plenty of other tables, right?
O'BRIEN: I suppose you're right.
LAFORGE: Why don't I get everyone another round of drinks? All right?

[Corridor]
RIKER: I don't need to tell you that insubordination is a serious charge to level against any officer.
WORF: I am aware of that, Commander. However, Ensign D'Amato directly challenged my authority.
RIKER: Is it my imagination, or have tempers become a little frayed on this ship lately?
WORF: I hadn't noticed.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: I see what you mean.
WORF: Security team to Ten Forward.
RIKER: Geordi, what the hell is going on here?
LAFORGE: I wish I knew.
RIKER: All right, that's enough!
LAFORGE: The next thing I know somebody's left hook is on its way to my chin.
TROI: Captain, this is not an isolated incident. There have been reports of random violence all over the ship.
PICARD: Are you suggesting this is somehow contagious?
CRUSHER: There's no indication of any bacteria or virus. I've run every test I know. I've checked the water, food replicators, airborne samples.
PICARD: This is a hell of a time. Whatever it is, I don't want it to affect the Ambassador. I want his quarters isolated from the rest of the crew until we've identified the cause.
TROI: It's not that simple, Captain.
CRUSHER: We have determined that the outbreak of violence started at virtually the same time Sarek and his party beamed onto the ship.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: We do have a working theory. We believe that it's possible Ambassador Sarek himself is responsible for these incidents.
PICARD: Sarek?
TROI: I felt something during the concert. Vague and undefined, but very disturbing
PICARD: He cried. I saw that. I couldn't believe it. A Vulcan moved to tears by music? It's
TROI: Well, Vulcans have the same basic emotions we do. They've just learned to repress them. What I sensed during the concert was that he'd lost control.
PICARD: What would cause such a loss of control?
CRUSHER: There's a very rare condition that sometimes affects Vulcans over the age of two hundred. Bendii Syndrome. Its early symptoms include sudden bursts of emotion, mostly irrational anger. Eventually, all emotional control is lost.
PICARD: I can imagine nothing that would be more offensive to a Vulcan. Their emotional detachment is the very core of their being. How would this affect others on board the ship?
TROI: Vulcans possess telepathic ability. Sarek may unintentionally be projecting intense emotions onto other people, at random.
PICARD: And when the Legarans beam on board?
CRUSHER: They could very well be affected too.
PICARD: Is there a treatment?
CRUSHER: Can't someone else take his place?
PICARD: Sarek has built a personal relationship with them. They will accept no one else. How can we confirm your diagnosis?
CRUSHER: We can grow a culture from the tissue of the metathalamus, but the results will take several days.
PICARD: I have twelve hours.

[Ready room]
MENDROSSEN: That's impossible, Captain Picard. I cannot delay the conference. Not for a day, not for an hour. The schedule itself required three months of negotiations.
PICARD: Nevertheless, we appear to be facing
MENDROSSEN: I give you my word of honor that the Ambassador is in perfect health. Is that enough?
PICARD: Mister Mendrossen
MENDROSSEN: You are dealing with a theory full of holes, Captain. Why am I not affected by Sarek's supposed condition? And Perrin. How could his wife function normally if this theory of yours is correct?
PICARD: I cannot explain that. Hundreds of others on board have not been affected either. I have not. It appears to be random. Proximity, apparently, has no bearing on the phenomenon.
MENDROSSEN: You are accusing the greatest man of his time of losing his mind on the eve of his greatest triumph, and you cannot explain why. I won't report this to the Ambassador, for the moment. I don't want to divert his attention from the mission. But if I were you, in the interests of your career, I'd be very concerned about finding the real cause of these outbursts before the Legarans arrive.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please report to my Ready room.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Conference room]
DATA: Captain Picard is not satisfied with Ki Mendrossen's assurances that the Ambassador is in good health. Do you consider Sarek capable of carrying out his mission?
SAKKATH: Have I given you cause to think otherwise?
DATA: You have voiced certain reservations to me about his abilities.
SAKKATH: I do not recall making such a statement.
DATA: Not directly, no. But you did question me about the diplomatic capabilities of both Captain Picard and Counselor Troi.
SAKKATH: I am honor-bound to help Sarek carry out this mission. That is the only answer I can give.
DATA: Then you must decide which is your greater obligation. Your loyalty to Sarek or your duty to the Federation. Can you accept the logic of continuing this mission?
SAKKATH: Tell your Captain the mission is in jeopardy.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sakkath has been able, until recently, to use his telepathic skills to reinforce Sarek's emotional control, thus protecting others from the effects of his deterioration.
RIKER: He hasn't been doing a very good job.
DATA: The strain of this mission on Sarek has made it impossible.
PICARD: It's ironic, isn't it? All this magnificent technology and we find ourselves still susceptible to the ravages of old age. The loss of dignity, the slow betrayal of our bodies by forces we cannot master. Do you still want to be one of us, Data?
DATA: Sir, it is conceivable, even for me, that time will eventually lead to irreparable circuit failure. But there is one thing I do not understand. Sarek is a logical, intelligent being. The effects of Bendii Syndrome are apparent. Why would such a man choose to ignore them?
PICARD: Logic fails us sometimes, Data. I think this is one of those times. I can only guess that he does not see, or he does not wish to see, the truth. And he is being insulated against that truth by those who love him most.
RIKER: Someone has to confront him.
PICARD: Not a task that I'm looking forward to.
RIKER: I don't understand this. Everyone is protecting Sarek. His wife, Mendrossen, even you.
PICARD: What would you have me do? March down there and destroy the man?
RIKER: The mission with the Legarans cannot be carried out with Sarek in this condition!
PICARD: I know that!
RIKER: Then tell him that there is no way
PICARD: Don't you tell me what to do!
DATA: Captain. Commander.
PICARD: Of course. You're right, Number One. It's a task that I will attend to.

[Guest quarters]
PERRIN: Captain, I don't think I understand what you're telling me. My husband is responsible for your crew assaulting one another?
PICARD: He is very ill, Perrin.
PERRIN: Bendii Syndrome is more a folk tale than a disease. There hasn't been a true case of it in my husband's lifetime.
PICARD: There's one now. Sakkath knows.
PERRIN: Sakkath? Sakkath knows nothing my husband didn't teach him.
PICARD: He knows. And more than that. On this mission he has been consciously holding Sarek's mind together as well as he could.
PERRIN: That is not true!
PICARD: I must see Sarek.
PERRIN: Captain, I know a good deal about the Vulcan mind and I know a good deal about the heart of one particular Vulcan. I am his wife, and he is fine. He does not have Bendii Syndrome, and that shall be the end of it.
PICARD: I'm sorry.
PERRIN: Please, you must not do this to him.
SAREK: Must not do what, my wife? If Captain Picard wishes to see me, he may do so. I regret that we have seen so little of each other during this voyage, Captain.
PICARD: The loss is mine, Ambassador.
MENDROSSEN: Captain, may I talk with you in private?
SAREK: You were speaking of your belief that I suffer from Bendii Syndrome. I have been accused of many things in my life, never an excess of emotion.
PERRIN: Sarek, I see no reason to continue this discussion.
SAREK: On the contrary, I wish to assuage any fears the Captain may have regarding my capabilities. I believe there is a test for Bendii Syndrome. I will take it immediately.
PICARD: Unfortunately the results would not be available for several days, which is why I must ask for a postponement of the conference.
SAREK: That would be a mistake. Captain, I give you my word. I am in perfect health.
PICARD: Then why must Sakkath help to contain your emotions?
SAREK: Is what the captain says true?
MENDROSSEN: No, Ambassador, absolutely not.
SAREK: Perrin, were you aware of this? Sakkath, I await an answer.
SAKKATH: I have been using my limited abilities to strengthen your mental discipline.
SAREK: Your efforts will no longer be required!
SAKKATH: That would not be wise.
SAREK: It may not be wise but it is necessary.
SAREK: Leave me. I wish to speak with Captain Picard.
PERRIN: Sarek, I ask you to reconsider.
SAREK: Obey my wishes. There is nothing to fear.
PICARD: I hope I've not embarrassed you, Ambassador.
SAREK: You seem to forget, Captain, that I am a Vulcan. I am not affected by emotional considerations.
PICARD: I think you are affected, sir, far more than you realize.
SAREK: I am a logical being. Present your arguments. I will listen.
PICARD: There is an epidemic of violent incidents aboard the Enterprise. As we speak, the situation is worsening.
SAREK: And it is your hypothesis that I am the cause of these incidents?
PICARD: Yes. My Chief Medical Officer has explored all other probable causes.
SAREK: I share your concern for your crew. However, you must agree it is not unusual for a starship to encounter unexplained phenomena.
PICARD: That is correct.
SAREK: Therefore, since I can assure you that I am not the cause of your difficulties, the logical course would be to have your doctor to continue her search.
PICARD: She is. It is also a fact that these incidents began shortly after your arrival.
SAREK: Is your entire argument to be based on mere coincidence?
PICARD: Is it also coincidence that your wife and chief of staff are carefully isolating you?
SAREK: Ah. I believe I see the flaw in your logic. You are reacting to their overprotective attitudes towards me. They are both somewhat emotional concerning my age.
PICARD: Surely Sakkath cannot be influenced by emotion?
SAREK: Am I to be blamed for the judgment of a child? Sakkath is young and inexperienced. He erred in his assumption that I needed help!
PICARD: But you needed his help at the concert. Or is there possibly some other logical explanation for what happened that night?
SAREK: What happened?
PICARD: I saw you crying.
SAREK: I do not cry.
PICARD: I was there I saw the tears.
SAREK: You exaggerate, Captain. I recall only one tear.
PICARD: So you were emotionally affected by the music.
SAREK: That is not possible!
PICARD: You still haven't answered my question, Sarek. Is it logical for a Vulcan to cry?
SAREK: It was late. I was fatigued. Nothing more. The Legarans trust only me. They will not meet with any other member of the Federation. I must be allowed to complete my mission! There are no other logical solutions!
PICARD: No other logical solutions? But Ambassador, there are always other solutions. You have said so yourself many times.
SAREK: What I meant was that
PICARD: Sarek of Vulcan would never be afraid of looking straight at something he did not want to see.
SAREK: I warn you! Your efforts to discredit me will not succeed!
PICARD: Sarek of Vulcan never confused what he wanted with the truth.
SAREK: I will not be spoken to in this manner!
PICARD: Do I hear anger in your voice?
SAREK: It would be illogical for a Vulcan to show anger! It would be illogical! Illogical! Illogical! Illogical!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. In three hours time we are scheduled to meet with the Legaran delegation. However, it is now all too evident that Ambassador Sarek is in no condition to proceed with the conference.

[Ready room]
RIKER: We're entering the Legaran system, sir. Shall I have Mister Worf contact their ambassador?
PICARD: No. I will present our regrets to the Legarans personally. It is vital that they understand our reasons for canceling these negotiations.
RIKER: Captain, I think you did the right thing.
PICARD: But at what cost, Number One?
PICARD: Come. Perrin?
PERRIN: I must speak with you, Captain.
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge, sir.
PICARD: How is the Ambassador?
PERRIN: Resting. I've come to ask you to reconsider your position.
PICARD: You know that is impossible.
PERRIN: Sarek is a good man. He's given the Federation a lifetime of service. I beg you to let him keep the respect he has earned.
PICARD: He'll never lose that respect.
PERRIN: Mendrossen and I never wanted to deceive you. My husband's condition came on him so gradually it was so easy to delude ourselves and pretend that nothing was wrong. We convinced ourselves that he could complete this one last task and end his career with dignity. Help him, Captain. Help him regain his pride, his honor.
PICARD: Believe me, it would give me great pleasure, but there is nothing I can do.
PERRIN: The mission can be saved. But he needs your help to do it.

[Conference room]
SAREK: A mind-meld? Between the two of us? Do you realize the dangers involved in what you are proposing, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, I do, Ambassador. But I also realize the potential benefits.
SAREK: We would be linked telepathically, sharing our thoughts, becoming in essence one mind.
PICARD: Which, for a few hours, should provide the emotional control you need. In that time, you can meet with the Legarans and conclude the treaty.
SAREK: It is a generous offer. But I must warn you that while I would gain your stability, you would experience the fierce onslaught of emotions unleashed by my condition. Vulcan emotions are extremely intense. We have learned to suppress them. No human would be able to control them. They would overwhelm you. The mind-meld can be a terrible intimacy. I cannot allow it.
PICARD: I'm aware of the risks. But it is the only logical solution.
SAREK: Your courage honors me, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: I can't say I approve of this, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: I didn't expect that you would, Beverly.
CRUSHER: I don't suppose I could talk you out of it?
PICARD: I'm afraid not, though I do admit to a certain trepidation. Your company is much appreciated.
PICARD: Come.
SAREK: I see that you are ready, Captain.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher will monitor our responses.
SAREK: A sensible precaution.
SAREK: My mind to your mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the Legarans are ready to beam aboard.
RIKER: Very well.
SAREK: Number One, please inform the Legaran delegation that Sarek of Vulcan is on his way to welcome them.
RIKER: Yes, Ambassador.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I take it the mind-meld was a success?
SAREK: Yes. All went as planned.
RIKER: Is Captain Picard all right?
SAREK: Don't worry, Number One.
RIKER: And the Ambassador?
SAREK: I am myself again. It has been a long time.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: No! It is wrong. It is wrong! A lifetime of discipline washed away, and in its place bedlam. Bedlam! I am so old. There is nothing left but dry bones and dead friends. Tired, oh so tired.
CRUSHER: It will pass, all of it. Just another hour or so. You're doing fine. Just hold on.
PICARD: No! This weakness disgusts me! I hate it! Where is my logic? I am betrayed by desires. I want to feel. I want to feel everything. But I am a Vulcan. I must feel nothing. Give me back my control.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc!
PICARD: Perrin. Amanda. I wanted to give you so much more. I wanted to show you such tenderness. But that is not our way. Spock, Amanda, did you know? Perrin, can you know how much I love you? I do love you!
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: I'm here, Jean-Luc. I'm not going anywhere.
PICARD: It's quite difficult. The anguish of the man, the despair pouring out of him, all those feelings, the regrets. I can't stop them.
PICARD: I can't stop them. I can't. I can't.
CRUSHER: Don't even try. First Officer's log, Stardate 43920.7. Ambassador Sarek has successfully concluded the negotiations with the Legarans. The USS Merrimac has arrived and will transport the Ambassador and his party back to Vulcan.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: I hope your journey aboard the Merrimac will be uneventful.
SAKKATH: With the pressures of the conference behind him, I believe I can help maintain his control until we return to Vulcan.
RIKER: What will happen to him then?
MENDROSSEN: The effects of Bendii Syndrome are irreversible. Medical research is always continuing, of course.
RIKER: Mister O'Brien, stand by for transport.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
PERRIN: Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: He loves you very much.
PERRIN: I know. I have always known.
SAREK: I will take my leave of you now, Captain. I do not think we shall meet again.
PICARD: I hope you are wrong, Ambassador.
SAREK: We shall always retain the best part of the other inside us.
PICARD: I believe I have the best part of that bargain, Ambassador. Peace and long life.
SAREK: Live long and prosper.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 43930.7. The Enterprise has been in attendance at the biennial Trade Agreements Conference on Betazed. For the first time, the Ferengi are present, and I have reluctantly consented to their boarding the Enterprise for the closing reception.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Check and mate.
WESLEY: Perfect. The queen's gambit finished off with the Aldabren Exchange.
NIBOR: That is unfair. I couldn't concentrate with all that noise.
WESLEY: Noise? It's Algolian ceremonial rhythms.
PICARD: A toast to the success of the trade conference, Reittan. I must admit, I had some doubts when you invited the Ferengi.
GRAX: They made a profit and behaved themselves. What more could one ask? Still, they trouble me. We Betazeds are uncomfortable with species like the Ferengi whose minds we can't read.
DATA: Perhaps your telepathic abilities are ineffective owing to the anomalous construction of the Ferengi brain, which is composed of four different
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. It was thoughtful of you to invite Lwaxana Troi to be part of the Betazed delegation.
GRAX: Yes, Lwaxana and I go way back. Her first husband and I were old friends, and I've known Deanna since she was a child.
PICARD: I'm sure Counselor Troi appreciates the opportunity to spend time with her mother.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Little One, you could at least pretend you're happy to see me.
TROI: Mother, we're among non-telepaths. It's impolite not to speak aloud.
LWAXANA (voiceover): You mean talk with my mouth full? Deanna, please!
LWAXANA: All right, you want me to say something aloud? Have you considered if you had stayed on Betazed, you might have been a happier person.
TROI: Let's not guess what might have been. I love my work aboard the Enterprise.
LWAXANA: Yes, of course you do, but it's all business and no play. You've got to enjoy life, relax, like I do. Find yourself the right man, think of your future. Think of my future.
RIKER: Lwaxana, Deanna. Anything I can do for you?
TROI: Could I?
FAREK: She's as repulsive as the rest of them.
TOG: Repulsive? I find her exotic. And what an advantage her telepathy would be in our negotiations.
FAREK: To read our competitors' minds? Yes, that would be valuable. But she'd never agree to use her powers to help us.
TOG: I'm not so sure.
TOG: Lwaxana Troi of Betazed, I believe. I am DaiMon Tog of the Ferengi vessel Krayton. May I join you?
LWAXANA: I was just going to see Captain Picard. Excuse me.
LWAXANA: Oh, Jean-Luc! Jean-Luc! Come have a drink with me. Tell me what you've been up to.
PICARD: Perhaps later, Lwaxana. Mister Data and I were just about to show Reittan Grax the er, the er, the new door mechanisms on the aft turbolifts. If you'll excuse us?
TOG: Lwaxana Troi. I desire you.
LWAXANA: What?
TOG: You see, your Betazoid skills would be very useful to me, and I find you very attractive. I am willing to pay handsomely for you.
LWAXANA: I don't believe this.
TOG: You must be aware that every female has her price.
LWAXANA: Let's get one thing straight, little man. I am not for sale. And if, by some chance I were to become available, I would rather eat Orion wing-slugs than deal with a toad-faced troll like you! So go away and find someone else to become your property.
TOG: As you wish.
FAREK: Now that you've totally humiliated us, may we return to our vessel?
TOG: She is exhilarating, isn't she? Now I want her more than ever. Lwaxana Troi, you will be mine.

[Corridor]
TROI: Are we at war with the Ferengi yet?
WORF: DaiMon Tog has returned to his vessel and the Ferengi have left orbit.
TROI: My mother will be relieved.
WORF: I hear she handled the situation quite skillfully. An admirable woman.
TROI: I'll be sure to tell her you said so.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Come in, Little One.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Mother? Mother, please.
LWAXANA: After that awful little Ferengi insulted me, I needed to center myself. Can you imagine that dreadful little creature talking to me like that? Doesn't he realize that I am a daughter of the Fifth House of Betazed. Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx?
TROI: The Sacred Chalice of Rixx is an old clay pot with mold growing inside it.
LWAXANA: Perhaps one day when you're older and wiser, you'll understand. Come on, sit down. Talk to me. We spend so little time together.
TROI: That's true. I'm sorry, and I didn't mean to get so upset with you at the reception.
LWAXANA: Deanna, try to understand. You're all I have. My only concern is for your happiness.
TROI: I am happy. Why can't you believe that?
LWAXANA: I wish I could, but how much happiness is there in always being there for someone else, and never being there for yourself?
TROI: I get a great deal of satisfaction out of my work.
LWAXANA: I'm sure you do. I'm sure it's very rewarding in its way. What about a family?
TROI: This is my family. My friends here on the Enterprise.
LWAXANA: All right. In case I have to spell it out for you, I'm talking about finding a husband, having a child. That's what made me happy. At least until now.
TROI: Mother, look. Perhaps some day I will marry. But you've got to let me make my own choices, live my own life, and not the life you would choose for me.
LWAXANA: You had your chance with Commander Riker. Look how you ruined that.
TROI: I did not ruin anything. We've became very good friends.
LWAXANA: Well, all the better. You certainly wouldn't want to marry an enemy. I see we can't talk about this. Very well, have it your way, Little One.
TROI: Little One? You called me that when I was five. Now stop demeaning me and address me as an adult!

[Corridor]
LWAXANA (voiceover): I'll be home on Betazed if you need me, Little. Deanna.

[Ready room]
WESLEY: Adding pre-processors to the neutrino counters boosted efficiency by eleven percent. Of course, Commander La Forge and Commander Data did most of the work.
LAFORGE: Not so fast, Wesley. Pre-processing the data with an optical chip was your idea.
DATA: That is correct, sir. Although Commander La Forge and I designed the chip, Mister Crusher derived the equation governing its operation.
RIKER: The point is, you've completed the upgrade well ahead of schedule. Very impressive.
PICARD: Indeed. Fine work. We shall miss you, Mister Crusher. As you've guessed, final entrance examination scores from Starfleet Academy have arrived. Congratulations. As soon as you have completed the oral exam, you'll be formally admitted.
RIKER: We'll have you back at Betazed in plenty of time to meet up with the Academy transport ship.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: That'll be all. Number One, a moment.
RIKER: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: You'll agree that this is a fairly routine mapping mission?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Counselor Troi had the good sense to ask for shore leave. I can see I'm going to have to suggest it to you. Have a good time, Number One.

[Clearing]
RIKER: I think it's around here somewhere.
TROI: Maybe it died. It has been a few years.
RIKER: Muktok live for hundreds of years. Here it is.
TROI: It's lovely. I remember that sound, and all the good times we had.
RIKER: I remember a certain junior officer meeting a very serious psychologist. The best part about being assigned to Betazed.
LWAXANA: Oh, this is the perfect spot. Put the food down over there, Mister Homn. Isn't it a beautiful day for a picnic? They'll join us in a minute. No, no, no, no. Here, put the food over there. No, you can go back
TROI: Mother, how did you know about this place?
LWAXANA: Your father used to bring me here. Sit down.
RIKER: And you even brought provisions. Very thoughtful.
LWAXANA: Here, Will, Deanna. Try an oskoid. They're delicious. That sap running through the veins helps keep it warm.
RIKER: Very tasty. So tell us, Lwaxana. The last time we met, you were looking for a husband. Did you have any luck?
LWAXANA: Alas, no, but what happens to me isn't important. I'm much more concerned about other people getting on with their lives.
TROI: Mother.
LWAXANA: Mister Homn, I noticed some uttaberries back along the path. Pick some.
LWAXANA: Well, Mister Homn and I could go back home if you two would like to be alone. It's such a romantic setting.
TROI: Mother, stop it.
LWAXANA: Darling, you have been so excitable lately. Have you ever thought of a leave of absence? I could talk to Jean-Luc.
RIKER: Try the oskoid. Very different.
RIKER: What the?
TOG: For one whose beauty surpasses even these pericules.
RIKER: DaiMon Tog, I thought the Krayton left orbit hours ago.
TOG: It did. But when I tried to get the image of Lwaxana Troi out of my mind, I could not succeed.
LWAXANA: This is ludicrous. You mean you came all the way back to Betazed for me?
TOG: Why continue to search for perfection once you have found it?
TROI: I don't believe this.
LWAXANA: Look, Demon Tog, or whatever you call yourself, I am the Daughter of the Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, heir to the Holy Rings of Betazed. And unless you want to create an interstellar incident, you had better beam back to your ship.
TOG: Returning to my ship is exactly what I had in mind. Krayton, transport four immediately.
RIKER: No, Tog!

[Holding cell]
RIKER: Lwaxana? Deanna?
LWAXANA: Where are we?
RIKER: From the smell of things, I'd say we're aboard a Ferengi vessel.
LWAXANA: The Ferengi can't do that. You're Starfleet officers.
RIKER: Tog must have missed that chapter in the Ferengi book of Etiquette. Enterprise? Must be too far out of range.
NIBOR: DaiMon, they have regained consciousness.
TOG (voiceover): Very good.

[Tog's quarters]
LWAXANA: I should have known. Even their transporters can't be trusted.
TROI: Why have you removed our clothing?
FAREK: Females do not deserve the honor of clothing.
LWAXANA: They're as bad as humans. Look at the leer on his face.
TOG: No. His is an expression of revulsion. But it is a feeling that I do not share, Lwaxana.
LWAXANA: Well, it's cold in here. Do you want me to become ill?
TOG: You must forgive the doctor. He is not accustomed to dealing with Betazoid females. Now, Lwaxana, I have a business proposition for you.
LWAXANA: Thanks, but I'm not interested in any of your propositions.
TOG: Hear me out. Your telepathic powers could bring us both great profit.
LWAXANA: Huh. Why would I want to bring you profit?
FAREK: In order to keep your daughter alive and healthy, for one.
TOG: There's no need for threats. Lwaxana is a sensible female
TROI (voiceover): I don't like the sound of this, mother.
LWAXANA (voiceover): I believe I can control him, Little One.
LWAXANA: I'm sure we can talk about this. Just the two of us.
TOG: A wise choice. Farek, leave us. And you may rejoin your friend.
TROI (voiceover): Mother, are you sure?
LWAXANA (voiceover): I'll be fine.
TOG: And now, Lwaxana Troi, let us talk.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Fifteen hours from Gamma Erandi, and already the subspace static is playing hell with communications.
WESLEY: Just what you'd expect from a stellar nursery.
DATA: Wesley, congratulations on passing your Starfleet written examination. An excellent achievement.
WESLEY: Thanks, Data. Now if I can just do well on the oral exams.
LAFORGE: Not to worry, you will. And when you return, we'll be gaining the best ensign in the fleet.
DATA: There is no guarantee that Wesley will be reassigned to the Enterprise. Ninety one per cent of Starfleet graduates are not posted to Galaxy class starships on their first assignment.
WESLEY: I never thought of that. I always assumed I'd be coming back to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: I'm sure Captain Picard will request you. That is, if he's still commanding the Enterprise when you graduate.
WESLEY: I never thought of that, either. I never thought I'd feel this way about leaving you guys and the Enterprise.
DATA: Is that not a part of the human experience? Growth and change?
WESLEY: I suppose so, but.
LAFORGE: Listen, Wesley. I felt the same way when I left my family to go to the Academy. But it was one of the best times of my life. You're going to meet new friends and have adventures that you can't even imagine yet.
WESLEY: I hope you're right, Geordi.

[Holding cell]
LWAXANA (voiceover): Little One, Tog's given me something perfectly hideous to wear. He says it flatters my beauty.
TROI: So far, Mother's in no danger. I hope she knows what she's doing.
RIKER: Well, she's bought us some time. Let's make the most of it. I wouldn't do that.
NIBOR: I don't need your help.
RIKER: The hell you don't. You're two moves away from being mated. See, you should have listened to me. Now you've only got one possible escape. That wasn't it.
RIKER: You should've moved the bishop.
NIBOR: Ridiculous! The bishop was pinned.
RIKER: Don't listen to me. Forget the fact that I beat you in thirty moves.
NIBOR: Pure luck.
RIKER: I was being polite. I could've won in twenty moves.
NIBOR: Then prove it. Pawn to queen four, King's level.
RIKER: Pawn to king's bishop three, Queen's level.

[Tog's quarters]
LWAXANA: I must admit, when you first approached me aboard the Enterprise, I was intrigued.
TOG: You mean revolted.
LWAXANA: Perhaps a little. Do you forgive me?
TOG: Yes. With your powers we could be a formidable team.
LWAXANA: My, you have great strength in your hands.
TOG: And you like that?
LWAXANA: I have always admired strong males.
TOG: You are beautiful. It is impossible for me to resist you.
LWAXANA: Then don't.

[Bridge]
DATA: Initial scans of ionization patterns complete, sir. Now correlating sensor readings.
PICARD: It's almost incomprehensible, the amount of energy being expended.
DATA: Actually, it is five point three four times ten to the forty first watts, sir. Well within the norm for this type of phenomena.
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. Perhaps, Data, but that takes away none of the wonder.

[Holding room]
NIBOR: Check.
RIKER: I'm sick of this game.
NIBOR: Of course, now that you're losing.
RIKER: Who's losing? I'm just tired of standing up.
NIBOR: You can't resign now.
RIKER: It's hard to play from in here. I can't even see the whole board.
NIBOR: Ah, then you'll finish the game if I let you out of the cell?
RIKER: I might.
NIBOR: Clever, human, but I'm not that foolish.
RIKER: What, do you think I'm going to try to escape? What would that get me? You've already got her. Besides, where would I go?
NIBOR: I do not trust you.
RIKER: Fine. Thanks for the game.
NIBOR: Come out here. Now save your rook, if you can.

[Tog's quarters]
LWAXANA: And that was my first husband. Not much of a conversationalist, but what a lover. Well, then I met Zarn
TOG: I do not want to hear about your other romances. It makes me jealous.
LWAXANA: My, my. What big ears you have. Has anyone ever told you how attractive they are?
TOG: Some females think they are my best feature. No one has ever given me oo-mox like this before.
LWAXANA: Oo-mox?
TOG: There is no translation. But the ear is one of our most erogenous zones.

[Ferengi brig]
RIKER: Those Ferengi have iron jaws.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Little One, if Tog were a kitten, he'd be purring.
TROI (voiceover): Good work, Mother. According to Mother, DaiMon Tog is extremely relaxd at the moment.
RIKER: Tell Lwaxana to keep him relaxd while we call the cavalry.
COMPUTER: Access to communications denied. All transmissions to be authorized by DaiMon Tog.
TROI: Let's see just how relaxd DaiMon Tog is.

[Tog's quarters]
TROI (voiceover): Mother, we're out of the cell and we're trying to contact the Enterprise, but we can't do it without Tog's access code. Do you think you could manage to
LWAXANA (voiceover): Say no more, Little One.
TOG: Lwaxana, you and I are going to make such a wonderful team. With your telepathy and my cunning, I foresee
LWAXANA: A very profitable future.

[Bridge]
WORF: Subspace interference is subsiding, sir. Communications have been restored.
PICARD: Good. Contact Commander Riker on Betazed.
WORF: Message coming in from Betazed, sir. Priority One.
PICARD: On screen.
GRAX (screen): Captain Picard, at last. We have been trying to reach you for two days.
PICARD: Our communications have been blocked by the nebula, Reittan. Is there a problem?
GRAX (screen): I'm afraid so, Captain. Lwaxana, Deanna and Commander Riker have disappeared.

[Tog's quarters]
TOG: I knew I wanted you the moment I saw you. You have fulfilled all my expectations.
LWAXANA: How sweet.
TOG: Farek thought it was a bad idea, but I knew better.
LWAXANA: How clever.
TOG: I knew best. I always know best.
LWAXANA: How repugnant.
TOG: What?
LWAXANA: I said, how romantic. I can't resist a man who knows what he wants and goes after it.
TOG: That's me. That's why I'm DaiMon of this ship. I take charge of every situation. More to the left, woman.
LWAXANA: Whatever you say. My darling, would you care for something to drink?
TOG: You're so attentive.
LWAXANA: Does your food synthesizer know how to make an Arcturian Fizz?
TOG: I don't think so.
LWAXANA: They have certain pleasure-enhancing qualities.
TOG: Mmm
LWAXANA: Let me teach your computer how to make one. I'll need your access code.
TOG: Yes, my beloved. Computer, access code kayee yooree dahtayee
FAREK: Tog! Be silent! I knew you were not to be trusted.
LWAXANA: Doctor Farek! I was going to make DaiMon Tog a drink.
FAREK: Save your lies for this fool.
LWAXANA: Oh please, don't listen to him. Don't. No, he's misunderstood me.
FAREK: No, Tog. You have misunderstood. You have been tricked by a sly female who finds you repulsive.
TOG: She was only trying to serve me a drink.
FAREK: You almost gave her complete access to the ship's computer. A security breach severe enough to cost you your command.! It's time you took my advice. Let me study her.
TOG: Study her? Your mind probes could kill her.
FAREK: You brought her aboard for her telepathic powers. If I can determine what neural configuration gives her those powers, I may be able to duplicate them. We could still profit from this.
TOG: I don't know.
FAREK: A true DaiMon would not be blinded by lust. Give her to me, or I may be forced to report your transgressions.
TOG: Very well. Take her.

[Clearing]
WORF: When you have finished here, survey in that direction.
CREWWOMAN: Aye, sir.
GRAX: I wish I had some answers for you, Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Mister Homn was no help?
GRAX: None. He last saw them as he was leaving this clearing. When he returned, all three of them were gone.
DATA: Lieutenant Foley discovered this in the pond. The species is Zan Periculi. It is not indigenous to Betazed, but to Lappa Four. A Ferengi world.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Now we now have a reasonable hypothesis as to whom.
WORF: The difficult question is where.
LAFORGE: The Ferengi ship is almost as fast as the Enterprise. She could be anywhere by now.
PICARD: Commander Riker will assume that we'll be searching for them. He'll find some way to send us a message. Mister Worf, I want continual monitoring of Ferengi subspace frequencies. Mister La Forge, can you extend our sensor range?
LAFORGE: If I narrow the band and tie in long range sensors to the subspace scanners, I can boost the gain.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Do you wish to leave orbit, sir?
PICARD: Not until we have someplace to go.

[Ferengi brig]
RIKER: I've done everything I know how. It's no use. Without Tog's security code, I can't get near their communication system.
TROI: We're running out of time. Farek's about to begin the neural scan on Mother.
RIKER: Maybe I'm going about this in the wrong way. If I pick a minor subsystem, something non-essential. Like this. Warp field phase adjustment. All this does is suppress the subspace interference generated by the warp engines.
TROI: Meaning what?
RIKER: Meaning if I set up a simple oscillation, I can send out a signal. The trick is to create a message that the Enterprise will understand but that the Ferengi will think is just normal subspace static. What's wrong?
TROI: Mother. Will, we have to help her.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Thanks for your help, Wes, but you'd better get aboard the Bradbury. They were ready to break orbit an hour ago.
WESLEY: Soon as I'm sure this works.
LAFORGE: Initiating scans now, Captain.
PICARD: Can you locate the Krayton?
DATA: Ferengi transmissions are routinely scrambled and encoded, sir. Without breaking the code, we will be unable to identify any specific Ferengi vessel.
LAFORGE: Ferengi codes are damn near impossible to break.
PICARD: Gentlemen, I have the utmost confidence in your ability to perform the impossible.
WORF: Captain, the Bradbury is hailing us. They can no longer delay their departure.
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Now. No lengthy farewells. Good luck.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
DATA: The repetitive nature of the subcarrier pattern would imply a modified

[Turbolift]
WESLEY: Deck six.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Wesley?
CRUSHER: Take care.
WESLEY: You too, Mom.
CRUSHER: Something the matter?
WESLEY: We've been scanning Ferengi transmissions, trying to find the Krayton. One of the signals was, I don't know, familiar somehow.
CRUSHER: Something in the message?
WESLEY: No, the message was scrambled. It was the static!
CRUSHER: Where are you going?

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. The Bradbury has informed us they can wait no longer for Mister Crusher to come aboard.
PICARD: Wesley.
WESLEY: Captain, I think there's a pattern to the subspace interference I heard on one of the Ferengi messages.
PICARD: Wesley, unless you leave immediately, you're going to miss the Bradbury.
WESLEY: The interference itself could be a message. If I could just hear a replay of the subspace scans.
PICARD: Signal the Bradbury they may leave. Play back the Ferengi transmissions.
WESLEY: Wait. Repeat that one. Put it on a continuous replay. Hear that popping noise? Data, can you filter out everything but that sound?
LAFORGE: That's Cochrane distortion. A fluctuation in the phase of the subspace field. All warp engines generate that kind of interference.
WESLEY: But listen to the pattern. It's the Algolian ceremonial rhythm that the musician played at the reception.
DATA: Mister Crusher is correct, sir. There is a temporal correlation.
PICARD: Then it is a signal from Commander Riker. Ingenious. He selected a signal we'd recognize but one the Ferengi would dismiss as static.
WORF: Signal source located, Captain.
PICARD: Plot an intercept course.
WESLEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Crusher. Warp eight.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Ferengi lab]
RIKER: Get away from her.
FAREK: What are you doing? br>
TOG: Stand off, Commander.
LWAXANA: DaiMon Tog, can't we strike a bargain? All I'm concerned about is my daughter's safety. What happens to me isn't important.
TOG: What are you suggesting?
LWAXANA: Let me be candid, DaiMon Tog. Deanna's of no use to you. She's only half Betazoid. And if you keep Riker, Starfleet will never stop chasing for you. Release them. Release them and I will stay with you willingly. I'll even use my telepathy to aid you in your negotiations.
TOG: A tempting offer. I would like to believe you.
LWAXANA: The offer is genuine. I give you my word as a Daughter of the Fifth House of Betazed.
RIKER: Lwaxana, don't.
LWAXANA: I've made up my mind.
RIKER: I can't let you do this.
LWAXANA: William, I am a grown woman. I can make my own decisions.
TROI: Mother, we can't just leave you here.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Yes, you can, and before he changes his mind.
LWAXANA: Please, Little One, do this for me. Just this once. Do we have an agreement?
TOG: I give you my word. I will release your daughter and the Commander.
FERENGI (voiceover): DaiMon. A Federation ship approaching at high warp.
FAREK: The Enterprise has found us
TOG: Slow to impulse. Raise shields. Inform the Enterprise that two of our guests are ready to return. The other will be staying with us, at her own request.
FAREK: I must protest, DaiMon.
TOG: Lwaxana has given her word.
LWAXANA: Oo-mox is only the beginning.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are you both all right?
RIKER: None the worse for wear.
TROI: My mother bought our freedom, Captain. She doesn't want to stay with Tog.
PICARD: Hail the Krayton.
WORF: Frequencies open. DaiMon Tog responding.
PICARD: On screen.
TOG (screen): Captain Picard, so good of you to meet us. We were on our way to Betazed to return our guests.
PICARD: Of course you were, DaiMon. But you're still holding Lwaxana Troi.
LWAXANA (screen): When will you get it through your thick head that it's over between us, Jean-Luc?
TROI: I think I know what she's doing. You have to fight to get her back, Captain.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Er, er. It's not over between us, Lwaxana. You're mine and I will not let you go. I insist you return to my side immediately.
LWAXANA (screen): You mean, you still care?
PICARD: My love is a fever, longing still for that which longer nurseth the disease.
LWAXANA: Tell me more.
PICARD: In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes, for they in thee a thousand errors see. But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, who in despite of view are please'd to dote. Shall I compare the to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate.

[Tog's quarters]
TOG: You didn't tell me that you and Captain Picard were
LWAXANA: You said you didn't want to hear about my other romances. I have a new love, Jean-Luc.

[Bridge]
TOG (screen): Killing?
LWAXANA (screen): Oh, he's insanely jealous.
PICARD: Listen, Tog, I must possesses Lwaxana. And if that means destroying your ship in the process, so be it.
TOG (screen): Captain, I had no idea Lwaxana was
LWAXANA (screen): Don't let him threaten you. You can defeat him. The only way you'll ever get me back is over Tog's dead body!
PICARD (screen): That can be arranged. Mister Worf, arm phaser banks and photon torpedoes. If Lwaxana Troi is not in my arms in ten seconds, throw everything you've got at the Krayton.
TOG (screen): But you will destroy Lwaxana!
PICARD: When I have plucked the rose, I cannot give it vital growth again. It needs must wither. Nine, eight. 'Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all. Seven, six
TOG (screen): No, wait.
PICARD: Five, four
TOG (screen): Beam her to their Bridge, now!
PICARD: Two, one
LWAXANA: You wonderfully jealous fool, you.
TOG (screen): Captain, I trust there will be no further action taken against us?
PICARD: Such as my reporting this incident to your superiors who may question your competency as DaiMon? I will think about it. Screen off.
LWAXANA: Thank you, Jean-Luc. You were most convincing. You certainly convinced me.
PICARD: I am truly grateful, Mrs. Troi, that you risked your life to save my people. I'll have you home within a few hours.
LWAXANA: Oh, no, no, no, no, that won't be necessary. I'd just love to hear more of your poetry.
PICARD: Perhaps another time. (finally manages to stand up. Please. Mister Crusher, set course for Betazed. Warp nine.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: That's her.
WORF: Which one?
LAFORGE: The one on the right. Don't stare.
WORF: Why not?
LAFORGE: Because she'll see.
WORF: Good. You must let her see the fire in your eyes.
LAFORGE: But what would I say?
WORF: Words come later. It is the scent that first speaks of love.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Worf. That helps a lot.
CHRISTI: Hi, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Hi.
CHRISTI: So, how have you been?
LAFORGE: Good. I, er.
CHRISTI: How are things down in Engineering?
LAFORGE: Fine. They, they've been fine.
CHRISTI: Well, I'll see you around.
WORF: I have much to teach you about women.
RIKER (voiceover): Mister La Forge, report to Transporter room three.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: What's this all about, Commander?
RIKER: Sensors have discovered a small one-man spaceship crashed on the planet.
CRUSHER: We're picked up life-signs, humanoid, very faint and fading.

[Planet surface]
DATA: Radiation levels within acceptable limits.
LAFORGE: We can beam him out from under there, get him right up to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: He's not stable enough for transport. There's damage to his brain stem, autonomic functions are failing. His heart needs active neurofeedback. It can't regulate itself. I need a volunteer.
LAFORGE: Right here.
CRUSHER: I'm going to hook your nervous systems to the tricorder. Your brain will regulate both systems. That should stabilize him long enough to get him up to the ship.
CRUSHER: Take deep, regular breaths. If anything goes wrong I'll break the connection.
LAFORGE: Okay.
CRUSHER: Geordi!
LAFORGE: I'm fine. No problem.
CRUSHER: Transporter room, three to beam directly to Sickbay.

[Sickbay - room four]
CRUSHER: Autonomic responses are still low. Begin cardiostimulation. Sixty cc's of inaprovaline. Massive infection is setting in. Use the protodynoplaser to stabilize his immune system. We need to design a virus that can infiltrate his cell structure and boost his ATP production.
TEMPLE: What about Commander La Forge. He's waiting in the diagnostic center.
CRUSHER: I need you to give him a full bioscan. See if there's any residual effect from that energy discharge during the neurolink. Keep his arm in cryogenic stasis until the vital signs are strong enough to begin surgical procedures.

[Bridge]
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is probably what caused the crash.
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have traveled very far. Mister Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area?
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds.
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod before the ship was destroyed.
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate phaser fire was recently exchanged.
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod?
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system.
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it?
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's computer system.
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay - room four]
TEMPLE: Limb re-fusion appears to be successful, Doctor. Tissue oxygenation is within norms.
CRUSHER: That's all we can do for now. We won't be able to test neuromuscular function for a few days.
CRUSHER: Ah, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Can I go now, Doc?
CRUSHER: No need to keep you here. Your bioscan came out negative.
LAFORGE: Could've told you that. I feel great.
PICARD: How's your patient?
CRUSHER: I never thought he'd make it this far. There was major trauma to his head and chest cavity, massive plasma loss, and severe damage to most of his organs.
PICARD: What are his chances?
CRUSHER: I believe he's going to live. I'm afraid I can't take the credit for it, though. His body seems to have amazing recuperative powers. The damaged tissue seems to be repairing itself at a phenomenal rate. There's one thing that troubles me though.
PICARD: What's that?
CRUSHER: Take a look at this.
PICARD: Cell regeneration?
CRUSHER: Yes. The thing is, it has nothing to do with the injuries. These are undamaged cells that seem to be mutating.
PICARD: Do you have a theory as to the cause?
CRUSHER: No. I've never seen anything like it in my life. There is a possibility that it's part of his natural healing process. I hope it is, because there's nothing I can do to stop it.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: I'm telling you Data, there's got to be some way to decode the information in this thing.
DATA: I agree Geordi. But the data matrix within the capsule does not correspond to any standard format. All we have been able to determine is that the device contains a chemically based system for molecular energy encoding.
LAFORGE: Yeah, and the computer still can't analyze the specific chemical elements involved. It's got to be part of the data processing system. What if it's a feedback loop controller?
DATA: The compact shape does suggest a rapid chemical processing and storage capacity.
LAFORGE: We found it near the escape pod's instrumentation assemblage. This capsule might process the ship's dynamic motions and augment its manual control inputs. We could send it a few test signals, make it think the entire assemblage was awake and operating.
DATA: An intriguing experiment. The capsule might provide us with information without the need to decode the storage medium itself. Perhaps we should examine your theory immediately.
WORF: Less talk, more synthahol. We came here to relax.
LAFORGE: I am relaxd. In fact, I've never felt better. But you know, Worf, you're right. The storage capsule can wait awhile.
LAFORGE: Christi, you're not leaving, are you?
CHRISTI: I was just on my way down to the arboretum.
LAFORGE: Would you care for some company?
CHRISTI: I'd love some, but I didn't think you were interested in that kind of thing.
LAFORGE: There are a lot of things you don't know about me.
WORF: I've been tutoring him. He learns very quickly. Medical Log, Stardate 43958.8. I have removed patient John Doe from the emergency bio-support unit. In just thirty six hours, most of his major organ systems have regenerated themselves to the point where they can now function on their own.

[Sickbay - intensive care]
JOHN: I am alive?
CRUSHER: You certainly are.
JOHN: Thank you for my life. Tell me, who am I?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 43960.6. Our mission to map the Zeta Gelis star cluster is proceeding on schedule. Meanwhile, Doctor Crusher reports that the recovery of the patient she has named John Doe continues at a remarkable pace.

[Sickbay - room four]
CRUSHER: Are you experiencing any discomfort?
JOHN: None. I can feel the life returning to my body.
CRUSHER: Your neurofiber waves are functioning almost normally again. That puts you about six weeks ahead of my original schedule.
JOHN: That should give you and your colleagues something to talk about.
CRUSHER: You are all we've talked about since your arrival.
JOHN: I believe I'm ready for the next phase of my treatment.
CRUSHER: You are right. It is time you stopped taking up valuable bed space. Now these motor-assist bands will provide you with electrical stimulation for your arms and legs. They will help you re-learn how to control your muscles again. But remember, you've been off your feet for almost a month, so don't be disappointed if at first your mobility is restricted. Your limbs are still weak.
JOHN: I appreciate your concern, Doctor, but I think I may surprise you again. I feel strong enough to fly.
CRUSHER: Whoops.
JOHN: Perhaps I should concentrate on walking first.
CRUSHER: Let's try again, a little more slowly this time.
JOHN: Much more slowly.
JOHN: I envy your reflexes, Captain.
PICARD: I envy your strength of will. Doctor Crusher has been keeping me informed of your progress. It's quite extraordinary.
JOHN: I have an extraordinary doctor. She gave me back my life. I hope that I am worthy of her efforts.
PICARD: Are you still unable to recall anything about your past?
JOHN: Unfortunately, Captain, my memories begin the moment I woke up in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me you think I was in some kind of battle.
PICARD: I'm quite sure of that. Have you any idea how you came to be in that escape pod, or what happened to the ship?
JOHN: No. Believe me, Captain, it's a horrible feeling not knowing who you are or where you're from.
PICARD: Have you tried synaptic induction?
CRUSHER: His neural nets don't conform to any known patterns. Conventional neurotherapy has proven ineffective. Hopefully, in time, his memory pathways will reestablish themselves naturally.
CRUSHER: That same pain?
JOHN: Yes. I think I've made enough progress for one day.
PICARD: Not a relapse I hope.
CRUSHER: This is nothing to do with his previous wounds. I think this has something to do with the continuing mutation of his cell structure.
PICARD: You still have no theory as to what's causing it?
CRUSHER: It doesn't make any sense.
JOHN: I seem to be a mystery, Doctor. To you and to myself.

[Turbolift]
CHRISTI: Well, this is where I get off. See you tonight in Ten Forward?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'll be there.
CHRISTI: Hello, Commander.
RIKER: Miss Henshaw.
RIKER: Bridge.
LAFORGE: Deck six.
RIKER: So, you and Miss Henshaw have been seeing a lot of each other.
LAFORGE: Every night this week.
RIKER: Is that all? I thought you'd been walking around with that smile on your face a lot longer than that.
LAFORGE: I guess I have. This whole last month or so everything seems to be going my way. I don't know what it is, but something sure has changed around here.
RIKER: The only thing that's changed is you.
LAFORGE: Me? I'm the same old guy I always was.
RIKER: If you say so. I don't remember the old Geordi having that much success with Miss Christi Henshaw.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe I am a little bit more confident than I used to be.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: What happened to you?
O'BRIEN: I was kayaking in the holodeck again.
CRUSHER: You dislocated your shoulder. Sit down, I'll get the osteotractor frame.
WESLEY: Hi mom. We still on for dinner tonight?
CRUSHER: Seven thirty sharp. I'll be right back.
WESLEY: Kayaking again?
O'BRIEN: Yeah.
WESLEY: How's my mom's favorite patient?
JOHN: Judge for yourself.
WESLEY: Not bad.
JOHN: Your mom promised me a tour of the ship tomorrow. You may find this hard to believe, but Sickbay can be an incredibly boring place to be.
O'BRIEN: Hey, Doc! I'm dying here.
JOHN: Don't worry my friend. You'll be alright.
O'BRIEN: The pain's gone.
CRUSHER: It's completely healed. I don't understand. What did you do?
JOHN: I don't know. It was instinct. I just touched him.

[Crushers' quarters]
CRUSHER: I've run every test and scan on him that I can think of, and yet there's no physiological evidence to indicate that he would possess such powers. But then, there's so much about John that's a mystery.
WESLEY: You know, I really like him.
CRUSHER: He does have a certain charm doesn't he? The entire medical staff has commented on it.
WESLEY: You seem a little taken with him yourself.
CRUSHER: He has a strength and serenity that I find very attractive. And yet he's vulnerable. I guess I find him intriguing.
WESLEY: Seems like there's a little more to it than that.
CRUSHER: Is this your way of asking me if I'm getting romantically involved with him?
WESLEY: You said it, I didn't.
CRUSHER: My feelings toward him aren't romantic exactly. I mean, I know that the doctor-patient relationship can sometimes create a false sense of intimacy, but this is different. There's an almost spiritual connection. I guess I'm not making any sense, am I?
WESLEY: I think I understand.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Data, I was thinking about the storage capsule last night and I was wondering, what if we've been going about this thing the wrong way? We've been trying to analyze its mechanical properties. What if it is a biochemical storage medium?
DATA: Are you suggesting that it employs memory RNA like an organic cell?
LAFORGE: Well, it does contain quantities of nucleic acids.
DATA: Perhaps the information sequences are encoded in the molecular patterns themselves.
LAFORGE: Computer, scan the storage capsule. Analyze molecular sequences on nucleic acid chains.
LAFORGE: Well. what do you know. A navigational chart.
DATA: It appears that your hypothesis was correct, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I knew it. Captain?
PICARD: Found something?
DATA: We have determined that the storage cube from John Doe's escape pod contains navigational information.
PICARD: Can you match these stars to our charts?
DATA: Computer, run transformational matrix calculations. Match navigational referents to known stars in this sector.
COMPUTER: Information on this sector is incomplete. No correlation.
LAFORGE: I'm not giving up yet. Not after coming so close to cracking this thing. You know, that might be flight path information from John's ship, but without a frame of reference, I can't determine its origin points.
DATA: Computer, assume those paths are course corrections and derive gravitational values for stellar objects near those flight paths.
DATA: Most of these are ordinary G-type stars. This would appear to be a neutron star, possibly a pulsar.
LAFORGE: Which means that this might be a rotational time reference.
DATA: Computer, assume these symbols are pulsars. Translate associated values into standard temporal notations. Computer, is there a pulsar with a rotational period of one point five two four four seconds within sensor range?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
LAFORGE: Bingo! Now, Computer, overlay navigational chart using referenced pulsars and project a flight path back to it's origin.
COMPUTER: Flight path originated at bearing zero zero three, mark zero one five. Distance, two point three parsecs.
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain. That's where John Doe came from.
DATA: That bearing is almost directly along our planned course, sir.
PICARD: Good. Then we can continue our mission without significant interruption.

[Sickbay - room four]
JOHN: Home?
PICARD: Yes. Using the information we found in your escape pod, we may be able to return you to your people.
JOHN: I cannot go back.
PICARD: Why is that?
JOHN: You must not take me home, Captain.
CRUSHER: John, your memory, has it returned?
JOHN: All I know is that we came out here to escape.
PICARD: Escape?
CRUSHER: There were others with you?
JOHN: Yes, I was not alone. But what happened to the others, or what we were escaping from, I cannot remember. But I do know you must not take me back. Not yet.
PICARD: We will not arrive in your star system for at least three weeks. That will give us plenty of time to discuss this further.
CRUSHER: Hopefully, by then you will have regained more of your memory.
JOHN: You're right, of course, Captain. I apologize for my outburst.
PICARD: It's understandable.

[Ten Forward]
JOHN: This ship is astounding. It seems to stretch on without end.
CRUSHER: We can see the rest of it some other time. This is your first day out of Sickbay and I don't want you to overexert yourself.
JOHN: This looks like an ideal place to rest.
CRUSHER: My thoughts exactly.
JOHN: Truly remarkable.
CRUSHER: What is?
JOHN: These people. They're all so different from one another yet they work together freely.
CRUSHER: That surprises you?
JOHN: It is new to me. My people are different somehow. If only I could remember. Yesterday, for one terrifying moment, there was clarity.
CRUSHER: You mean the energy pulse?
JOHN: Yes. For that moment my purpose seemed clear, and then it was gone.
CRUSHER: The pain, the energy pulse, must be linked to the cell mutation in the body. I wish I could help you find the truth.
JOHN: Beverly, you've done so much for me. I only wish there was some way I could repay you.
CRUSHER: But you have. The friendship we've developed has made me very happy.
JOHN: The rapport that exists between us also means a great deal to me. But I am on some kind of journey. Whatever brought me here, whatever is happening to my body, is all part of that journey. And I must complete it before any other consideration.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, I am reading a vessel on long range scanners. It is coming from sector nine five six nine.
PICARD: What configuration?
WORF: Impossible to identify at this distance. However, it is on an intercept course.
DATA: Captain, the ship is traveling at warp nine point seven two.
RIKER: Warp nine point seven two?
PICARD: Time to intercept?
DATA: At present course and speed, ten hours fifty three minutes.
PICARD: Try and hail them, Mister Worf.
WORF: No response, Captain.
PICARD: Keep monitoring their approach. Repeat the hail every half an hour.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Whoever they are, they're in a big hurry to get here.

[Sickbay - room four]
TEMPLE: Doctor Crusher, medical emergency, room four.
JOHN: I can't make it stop.
CRUSHER: John, tell me. Is it worse than before?
JOHN: Much worse.
TEMPLE: Should I get something for the pain?
CRUSHER: No. The readings are fluctuating too wildly. Besides, it wouldn't do any good. His entire cell structure is transforming.
JOHN: I have to leave, Beverly.
CRUSHER: John, where do you have to go?
JOHN: I must get off this ship.
CRUSHER: That's impossible. Not in your condition.
JOHN: I must!

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Security.

[Shuttlebay]
LAFORGE: Okay, let's realign the magnetic inducer on the starboard nacelle.
CRUSHER: John!
WORF: Leave the control booth immediately!
CRUSHER: John, listen to me. You must come down. I'll try to help you.
WORF: Step away from the controls.
JOHN: Get back. Please, stay away.
WORF: I have no wish to harm you, but you must return to Sickbay immediately.
JOHN: No. Do not come any closer. I cannot control over what is happening to me.
CRUSHER: His neck is broken. No life signs. Sickbay, form a resuscitation team. I have a code seven in shuttlebay two. Transporter room, stand by.
SECURITY: Hold it.
CRUSHER: No, don't.
CRUSHER: Hold still.
LAFORGE: Doc.
CRUSHER: I can't believe it. There's no trace of injury.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You admit you were trying to steal a shuttlecraft.
JOHN: Yes.
PICARD: So I ask you again, why?
JOHN: I don't know.
PICARD: Unacceptable. You had a reason. I want to know what it was. Damn it, you nearly killed a member of my crew.
CRUSHER: And healed him.
PICARD: I'm not forgetting that. That's the reason he's here and not in the brig.
JOHN: I warned him. I told him it was dangerous.
PICARD: Why? Why was it dangerous? What is happening to you?
JOHN: I don't know.
CRUSHER: The rate of metamorphosis is accelerating. It's almost as if your body were generating an electrical field that's warping the tissue.
PICARD: Who are you? What are you?
JOHN: I'm afraid. For myself. For all of you. I have to get away. Isolate myself. Whatever is happening to me, it's dangerous.
PICARD: As Lieutenant Worf discovered.
JOHN: I don't want to hurt anyone. Captain, for the sake of your crew, let me go before this happens again.
CRUSHER: John, I don't believe you're capable of harming any
DATA (voiceover): Captain, the alien vessel is coming within weapons range. Its shields are up.
PICARD: I'm on my way. I want him kept under constant surveillance.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: John, I really want to thank you.
JOHN: For what?
LAFORGE: I don't know how, or even why, but down on the planet you gave me something. A new confidence.
JOHN: I doubt I can take credit for that. Perhaps I only helped you find something you already had.
DATA: Captain, on screen. Alien vessel approaching at half impulse, sir. Heading zero five one mark one one four.
PICARD: Raise shields. Slow to one third impulse power. Bring us to one zero three mark zero two five. Mister Worf, hail the alien vessel.
WORF: They continue to ignore our hails, sir.
DATA: They are scanning us, Captain.
WORF: They are answering our hail, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
JOHN: Sunad.
PICARD: You know him?
JOHN: Yes. I don't know how, but he's dangerous.
SUNAD (screen): I am Commander Sunad of Zalkon. You are trespassing into our space and you are holding a Zalkonian citizen.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the United Federation of Planets. We do not intend transgression of
SUNAD (screen): You will return him to us immediately.
PICARD: Sunad, this individual is a guest aboard our ship. We found him dying in a shipwreck. We returned him to health.
SUNAD (screen): Then you aided a criminal. He is one of four escaped prisoners. We eliminated the other three. We thought this one dead as well. Return him so we may complete our task.
PICARD: Of what is he accused?
SUNAD (screen): He is a disruptive influence. He spreads lies. He encourages dissent. He disturbs the natural order of our society.
PICARD: In what way?
SUNAD (screen): It is not your concern. I will give you two hours to comply.
RIKER: Tactical analysis.
WORF: The Zalkonian ship has a formidable armament. Their weaponry is comparable to ours.
LAFORGE: They're as fast and probably just as maneuverable.
PICARD: Counselor, do they mean to carry out their threat?
TROI: I believe so. Sunad's hatred for John was evident but there's something else. The Zalkonians are afraid of John.
PICARD: Commander Riker, Counselor, Doctor. John, I want you to join us. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Mister Worf stay at Tactical. Counter any moves the Zalkonian makes.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
JOHN: I can neither confirm nor deny what the Zalkonians told you.
PICARD: They make serious accusations against you.
JOHN: Their accusations may be true. I don't know. I don't believe that I am a criminal.
PICARD: You understand the difficult position in which I'm placed.
JOHN: Completely, and I refuse to place your ship in danger. If necessary, I will surrender to them. But I am convinced there's more at stake here than my life. There's something important I must complete. My survival is vital. If I could explain it, I would.
PICARD: I'll inform you of my decision shortly.
CRUSHER: Captain, you can't seriously be considering
PICARD: We must consider all options, Doctor, and not let our personal feelings impede our judgment.
CRUSHER: You're going to tell me it's irrelevant that we'd be sending him to his death.
PICARD: Whether we approve of the Zalkonians' intentions is not the issue. But for what it's worth, I believe John is correct that his existence has broader ramifications than that of a simple criminal.
TROI: Sunad thinks so. He feels personally threatened by John.
CRUSHER: Sunad called John a disruptive influence. That's hardly a capital offense.
PICARD: It's not up to us to judge their laws, Doctor.
RIKER: I know how I would feel if the situation were reversed, if they were in our territory holding a Federation citizen.
TROI: The Zalkonians truly don't understand our indecision about returning John. In their eyes, we shouldn't even be involved.
CRUSHER: But we are involved. I saved his life. For what? So that they could chase him down and take away that life away?

[Bridge]
SUNAD (screen): Picard, we will not tolerate more delays.
PICARD: Commander, let me remind you we are on a mission of exploration. Our purpose is to establish peaceful relations with the civilizations we encounter.
SUNAD (screen): We do not want relations with you.
PICARD: If that is your wish, we will respect it.
SUNAD (screen): We simply want you to leave Zalkonian space as soon as you return the criminal.
PICARD: Commander, we will leave. It is not our policy to intervene in the affairs of other cultures. But before I return the survivor to you, I would appreciate a more detailed explanation of what he has done to merit a death sentence.
SUNAD (screen): As I said. it is not your concern.
PICARD: Agreed. However, there are circumstances of which you may be unaware. The survivor has suffered a memory loss. He's therefore ill-equipped to defend himself against your accusations.
SUNAD (screen): There is no defense. Our judgment is final.
PICARD: There's something else. Since his recovery, he's manifested unusual abilities.
SUNAD (screen): What kind of abilities?
PICARD: He apparently has the power to heal injuries with a simple touch.
SUNAD (screen): Lies.
PICARD: And even to reverse death itself.
SUNAD (screen): Obviously he has corrupted you as well. I see I am wasting my time.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I can't breathe.
JOHN: It's come back to me, Beverly. I know who I am. What I am.

[Bridge]
SUNAD (screen): Ready all weapons.
JOHN: You will no longer harm these people, Sunad.
SUNAD (screen): Fire upon that ship.
JOHN: Do not be afraid. I won't hurt you.
SUNAD: Kill him, Captain. He's evil.
JOHN: You could learn from these people, Sunad. They do not fear me.
SUNAD: They don't know how dangerous you are, you and the others like you.
JOHN: That is what you and the other leaders have maintained for generations, but it is not true. Captain, my species is on the verge of a wondrous evolutionary change. A transmutation beyond our physical being. I am the first of my kind to approach this metamorphosis. They tried to convince us it was a sickness we would never survive, that the pain and energy pulses would kill us. They claimed we were dangerous so they destroyed anyone who exhibited the signs of the transfiguration.
SUNAD: We were protecting our society.
JOHN: By murdering us? You saw the mutations as a threat to your authority. You were terrified of something you couldn't understand. Some suspected that what was happening to them was not evil. Four of us decided to flee Zalkon and let the metamorphosis take its course. You hunted us down, killed the others, but I survived with the help of a kind and generous people.
JOHN: There is nothing to fear. You can join me. All Zalkonians can. Let me show you.
SUNAD: Don't touch me!
JOHN: As you wish. But others will listen now that you can no longer prevent me from telling them the truth. Those who are willing will follow me.
WORF: Sunad is back aboard the Zalkonian vessel, Captain.
JOHN: My people are about to embark upon a new realm, a new plane of existence, thanks to you.
PICARD: It is our mission to seek out life in all forms. We are privileged to have been present at the emergence of a new species.
JOHN: Beverly, you gave me life and more. I do not have the words for my gratitude nor my sorrow at leaving you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43989.1. The Enterprise has arrived at Jouret Four in response to a distress signal from one of the Federation's outermost colonies.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Anything from the surface?
WORF: No sir. There have been no communications from the colony for over twelve hours.
RIKER: Sensors picking up any signs of life?
WORF: None.
O'BRIEN: The surface environment is safe for transport, Commander.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Mister O'Brien

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): Verify these are accurate coordinates for New Providence colony.
O'BRIEN: Coordinates verified, sir.

[Planet surface]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): You're at the center of town.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 43992.6. Admiral Hanson and Lieutenant Commander Shelby of Starfleet Tactical have arrived to review the disappearance of New Providence colony. No sign remains of the nine hundred inhabitants.

[Ready room]
HANSON: The truth is, hell, we are not ready. We've known they were coming for over a year. We've thrown every resource we have into this, but still
RIKER: Then you're convinced it is the Borg?
SHELBY: That's what I'm here to find out. The initial descriptions of these surface conditions are almost identical to your reports from system J two five.
PICARD: Commander Riker wrote those reports. He agrees with you.
HANSON: Commander Shelby took over Borg tactical analysis six months ago. I've learned to give her a wide latitude when I want to get things done. That's how I intend to operate here.
SHELBY: My priority has been to develop some kind, any kind of defense strategy
RIKER: Obviously nothing we have now can stop them.
SHELBY: We've been designing new weapons but they're all still on the drawing board.
HANSON: We expected much more lead time. Your encounter with the Borg was over seven thousand light years away.
PICARD: If this is the Borg, it would indicate they have a source of power far superior to our own.
SHELBY: I'd like to see the colony site as soon as possible, Captain.
RIKER: It'll be dark there in thirty minutes. We've scheduled an away team for dawn.
PICARD: Number One, why don't you show the Commander to her quarters?
RIKER: It's our poker night, Admiral. There's always an open seat for you.
HANSON: Another time, Commander. Your captain and I have a lot to cover. But rumor has it Commander Shelby's played a hand or two.
HANSON: Keep your eye on her, Jean Luc. She's one very impressive young lady.
PICARD: You seem rather taken with her, JP.
HANSON: Just an old man's fantasies. When Shelby came into Tactical, every admiral's uncle had a take on this Borg business. She cut through it. She put us on track.
PICARD: Earl Gray?
HANSON: Please. She'd make you a hell of a first officer.
PICARD: I already have a hell of a first officer.
HANSON: Don't tell me he's going to pass up another commission?
PICARD: One's available?
HANSON: The Melbourne. It's his if he wants it. Hasn't he told you?
PICARD: He'll make a fine captain, JP.
HANSON: You may want to tell him that. We're still waiting on his decision. This is the third time we've pulled out the captain's chair for Riker. He just won't sit down. Let me tell you something, Jean-Luc. There are a lot of young hotshots like Shelby on their way up. Riker could suddenly look like he's standing still next to them. He's hurting his career by staying put. If I were you, I'd kick him in the rear end for his own good.

[Shelby's quarters]
SHELBY: I don't know exactly what I'm looking for, but we've tested the sections of the Enterprise's hull that were damaged by the Borg. There were some unusual magnetic resonance traces.
RIKER: A Borg footprint?
SHELBY: That's my theory. I'll see if it holds up tomorrow. I've reviewed your personnel. I'll be assigning Mister La Forge and Mister Data to accompany me on the away team.
RIKER: I've already assigned them to the away team. And I'll be with you as well, Commander.
SHELBY: Of course. I appreciate any assistance you can offer. Tell me, Commander. Is serving aboard the Enterprise as extraordinary an experience as I've heard?
RIKER: Every bit.
SHELBY: Good. Because I intend to convince Captain Picard I'm the right choice for the job.
RIKER: Job? Which job?
SHELBY: Yours, of course. I'm sorry. I heard that you were leaving.
RIKER: If I were, I'm sure you'll be the first to know. Poker's at seventeen hundred hours in my quarters. Deck eight.

[Riker's quarters]
WESLEY: Got another king in the hole, Data?
DATA: I am afraid I cannot answer that Wesley. And as you are a newcomer to the game, may I say it is inappropriate for you to ask. I will buy another card, Counselor.
TROI: No help there.
LAFORGE: Fold. Again.
TROI: Three jacks looking back for the handsome young ensign. Pair of deuces stands. Flush, possible straight flush. Your bet, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: I'm in for ten.
SHELBY: Call.
RIKER: Now it's time for the long pants. There's your ten, and one hundred.
LAFORGE: He's got the straight flush, folks.
DATA: Not necessarily. Commander Riker may be bluffing, Wesley.
WESLEY: I don't think so. Fold.
LAFORGE: With three jacks? What, are you kidding? Wesley, you may get straight A's in school, but there's a lot you need to learn about poker.
SHELBY: Well, I've only got two pair, but I've got to see your hole card. I'll call.
LAFORGE: You got him.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Mister Data and our guest appear to be tardy.
O'BRIEN: Sir, Commander Shelby and Data beamed down to the planet surface an hour ago.
RIKER: On whose authority?
O'BRIEN: On hers, sir.

[Planet surface]
SHELBY: Morning. Early bird gets the worm, eh? We've had some interesting results.
RIKER: Commander Shelby. Walk with me, Commander.
DATA: Early bird? I believe Commander Shelby erred. There is no evidence of avifaunal or crawling vermicular lifeforms on Jouret Four.
LAFORGE: That's not what she meant, Data, but you're right. She erred.
SHELBY: I'm sorry, but I woke up early and I saw that a weather system was moving in it. It could have affected the soil readings.
RIKER: So without any regard to the risk of coming down alone
SHELBY: Really, Commander, if we ran into the Borg here, two extra bodies wouldn't've made a hell of a difference, now would they? We had three hours before the storm front hit, less than two hours now. Data was available. I took him. We came. I don't see your problem.
RIKER: My problem, Commander, is I expect to be notified before there's a change in my orders.
SHELBY: Noted for future reference. Do you wish to hear my report, sir?
RIKER: Go ahead.
SHELBY: The soil contains the same magnetic resonance traces That's our footprint. There's no doubt any more. It is the Borg.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 43993.5. With confirmation of the Borg's presence in Federation space, Admiral Hanson has returned to Starbase three two four to discuss strategy with Starfleet Command. Lieutenant Commander Shelby remains on board to continue tactical preparations.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I've also ordered a standing Yellow Alert. All Federation and allied outposts have been warned. Ops will continue to monitor long range sensors. I've assigned Data, La Forge and Mister Crusher to work with Commander Shelby.
PICARD: Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression of Shelby?
RIKER: She knows her stuff.
PICARD: She has your full confidence?
RIKER: Well, I think she needs supervision. She takes the initiative a little too easily. Sometimes with risks.
PICARD: Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I once recruited as a first officer.
RIKER: Perhaps.
PICARD: Will, what the hell are you still doing here?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You've been offered the Melbourne.
RIKER: I've decided not to pursue that commission at this time.
PICARD: She's a fine ship, Will.
RIKER: Yes, but she's not the Enterprise. With all due respect, sir, you need me. Particularly now.
PICARD: Indeed? Starfleet needs good captains, particularly now. Reconsider your decision.
RIKER: Are you telling me to leave, Captain?
PICARD: I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you're ready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, you know, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: What am I still doing here? Deanna, I pushed myself hard to get this far. I sacrificed a lot. I always said I wanted my own command, and yet something's holding me back. Is it wrong for me to want to stay?
TROI: What do you think?
RIKER: Maybe I'm just afraid of the big chair.
TROI: I don't think so.
RIKER: The Captain says Shelby reminds him of the way I used to be. And he's right. She comes in here full of drive and ambition. Impatient, taking risks. I look at her and I wonder whatever happened to those things in me? I liked those things about me. I've lost something.
TROI: You mean you're older, more experienced. A little more seasoned.
RIKER: Seasoned. That's a horrible thing to say to a man.
TROI: I don't think you've lost a thing, and I think you've gained more than you realize. You're much more comfortable with yourself than you used to be.
RIKER: Maybe that's the problem. I'm too comfortable here.
TROI: I'm not sure I know what that means. You're happy here. Happier than I've ever known you to be. So, it comes down to a simple question. What do you want, Will Riker?

[Engineering]
SHELBY: A manipulation effect in the Borg ship's subspace field. A definite pattern at four point eight minute intervals during your first confrontation with them.
LAFORGE: Might indicate high output auxiliary generators kicking in.
SHELBY: One theory is that their systems are decentralized with redundant power sources located throughout the ship.
DATA: That is a reasonable conclusion. Borg technology has given each member of their society the ability to interface and function collectively. It is likely they have constructed their ship with the same philosophy.
WESLEY: You knock out one generator and another takes over without interruption.
RIKER: What kind of damage would we have to do to shut them down?
SHELBY: Projections suggest that a Borg ship like this one could continue to function effectively even if seventy eight percent of it was inoperable.
WESLEY: And our best shot barely scratched the surface.
LAFORGE: Well, from what I've seen, I can't believe any of these new weapons systems can be ready in less than eighteen months, Commander.
SHELBY: We've been projecting twenty four.
RIKER: Is there anything we can do here to adapt to our current defense systems?
LAFORGE: We'll have to go through the specs again, but. I don't know. My mind's turned to clay.
WESLEY: Mine too.
SHELBY: I think we should look at modifying the plasma phaser design.
RIKER: Commander, I think we should call it a night. That's an order. We'll reconvene at oh five hundred.
SHELBY: Sir, if you'll allow me to continue with Mister Data, who does not require rest.
RIKER: You need rest, Commander.
SHELBY: If we have a confrontation with the Borg without improving our defense systems
RIKER: If we have a confrontation, I don't want a crew fighting the Borg at the same time they're fighting their own fatigue. Dismissed.

[Observation lounge]
HANSON (screen): At nineteen hundred hours yesterday, the USS Lalo departed Zeta Alpha Two on a freight run to Sentinel Minor Four. At twenty two hundred hours and twelve minutes, a distress signal was received at Starbase one five seven. The Lalo reported contact with an alien vessel described as cube shaped. The distress signal ended abruptly, and she's not been heard from since.
PICARD: Mister Data, how long would it take to get there at warp nine?
DATA: One hour, seventeen minutes, sir.
PICARD: Make it so.
HANSON (screen): We're coming with every available starship to assist, Captain, but the closest help is six days away.
PICARD: We'll try and keep them occupied until you arrive.
HANSON (screen): I know you will. Hanson out.
RIKER: All hands will stand to battle stations.
PICARD: Commander Shelby, what is the status of out defense preparations?
SHELBY: Mister La Forge has a plan to modulate shield nutation. Hopefully, that'll hold them off for awhile.
LAFORGE: At the same time, we'll be retuning phasers to higher EM base emitting frequencies to try to disrupt their subspace field.
PICARD: What's your assessment of our potential effectiveness?
LAFORGE: It's a shot in the dark, Captain. But for now it's the best we can do.
PICARD: Dismissed.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, reading unidentified vessel just entering sensor range. Bearing two one zero mark one five one.
PICARD: Hail them, Mister Worf.
WORF: No response, sir.
PICARD: Move to intercept.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
WORF: Sir, the vessel has already changed course to intercept us. Approaching at warp nine point three. Entering visual range.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
PICARD: Mister Worf, dispatch a subspace message to Admiral Hanson. We have engaged the Borg.
WORF: Captain, you are being hailed.
PICARD: I am?
WORF: Yes, Captain. By name.
RIKER: Data, is it the same ship we faced at J two five?
DATA: Uncertain, Commander, but the dimensions are precisely the same.
PICARD: On screen. I am Jean Luc
BORG (voiceover): Jean Luc Picard, captain of the Starship Enterprise, registry NCC 1701D, you will lower shields and prepare to transport yourself aboard our vessel. If you do not cooperate, we will destroy your ship.
PICARD: You have committed acts of aggression against the United Federation of Planets. If you do not withdraw immediately
BORG: You will surrender yourself or we will destroy your ship. Your defensive capabilities are unable to withstand us.
RIKER: What the hell do they want with you?
SHELBY: I thought they weren't interested in human life forms, only our technology.
PICARD: Their priorities seem to have changed. Open.
WORF: Channel open.
PICARD: We have developed new defense capabilities since our last meeting and we are prepared to use them if you do not withdraw from Federation space.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The shields are being probed. I'm modulating nutation.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the Borg are attempting to lock on to us with their tractor beam.
PICARD: Load torpedo bays. Arm phasers. lock coordinates on the source of the tractor beam.
RIKER: Shield status?
DATA: Holding, sir.
SHELBY: The nutation modulation has them confused.
RIKER: They have the ability to analyze and adapt, Commander.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Shield modulation has failed. They've locked on.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields are being drained. Ninety percent. Eighty.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Trying to recalibrate nutation. Damn.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields have failed.
PICARD: Fire all weapons.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Their subspace field is intact. New phaser frequencies had no impact.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reverse engines.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Full reverse.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're not moving.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Fire at will.
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Phaser spread continuing.
DATA: Still no damage to the Borg vessel, sir.
COMPUTER: Warning. Outer hull breach.
WORF: They're cutting into the hull. Engineering section.
RIKER: Geordi, evacuate Engineering.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Computer. Evacuation sequence.
COMPUTER: Sealing doors to core chamber.
LAFORGE: Come on, move it, people! Let's go! Let's go!
COMPUTER: Decompression danger, deck thirty six, section four.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Sealing Main Engineering.
SHELBY: Data, fluctuate phaser resonance frequencies. Random settings. Keep them changing. Don't give them time to adapt.
WORF: The tractor beam has been released.
PICARD: Warp nine. Course, one five one mark three three zero. Engage.
WORF: They are in pursuit, Captain.
PICARD: Maintain course.
RIKER: Damage report, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Hull rupture in main Engineering. The damage is pretty heavy. We lost a lot of good people down there.
DATA: Eleven dead, eight more unaccounted for, Captain.
RIKER: Repair teams to Engineering. Seal hull breach.
LAFORGE: They didn't get to the core I can control functions from here.
WESLEY: Now approaching the Paulson Nebula, sir.
PICARD: Drop to impulse. Take us in, Ensign.
WESLEY: The field is getting too dense, sir.
PICARD: Steady. Analysis of the nebula cloud, Mister Data.
DATA: Eighty two percent dilithium hydroxyls. Magnesium, chromium. It should provide an effective screen against their sensors, Captain.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare to reverse engines. Full stop.
WORF: The Borg ship is continuing scans, attempting to locate us.
PICARD: Good. As long as they're looking for us, they won't hurt anyone else.

[Observation lounge]
SHELBY: Time index five one four. Data started to fluctuate phaser resonance frequencies. The Borg's beam breaks contact. Slow playback. Take a closer look, Commander. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: There's a two percent drop in power for an instant, but it is system wide. The phaser frequency spread was in a high narrow band.
DATA: Conceivably, the ship's power distribution nodes are vulnerable to those frequencies.
LAFORGE: If we can generate a concentrated burst of power at that same frequency distribution, I mean a lot more than anything our phasers or photon torpedoes could ever provide.
RIKER: How do we do that?
WESLEY: The main deflector dish.
LAFORGE: It's the only component of the Enterprise designed to channel that much power at controlled frequencies.
SHELBY: End program. Unfortunately, there is one slight detail. In the process, the blast completely destroys the Enterprise as well.
RIKER: But if we could get further away, increase the deflector's range.
SHELBY: It could work. In the meantime, we should retune all phasers, including the hand units, to the same frequency.
RIKER: Proceed. I'll inform the Captain.
SHELBY: There is one other recommendation I'd like to make, Commander. Separate the saucer section. Assign a skeleton crew to create a diversion
RIKER: We may need the power from the saucer impulse engines.
SHELBY: But it would give them more than one target to worry about.
RIKER: It's too great a risk.
SHELBY: I'd like the Captain to make that decision, sir.
RIKER: Commander, I bring all the alternatives to the Captain's attention. That'll be all.
LAFORGE: I'm going to need to install higher capacity power transfers to the deflector dish, Commander.
RIKER: How long?
LAFORGE: Better part of a day.
RIKER: She gets a full head of steam, doesn't she.
LAFORGE: She's a formidable presence, to say the least. But I'm convinced she can help us here, Commander.
RIKER: I am too. Don't worry about it. I can handle Shelby.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Come in, Number One. Commander Shelby was just telling me of your concerns about her plan.
RIKER: I'm sorry if she troubled you, sir. I have already informed her
PICARD: Yes, I entirely agree with you, Number One. It's not the time. But the time may come when we will be required to take greater risks. I want you to consider her plan as a fall back position. Make the necessary preparations.
RIKER: Very good, sir.

[Turbolift]
SHELBY: Deck eight. Battle bridge.
RIKER: Halt. Commander, you and I need to have a conversation.
SHELBY: You never ordered me not to discuss this with the Captain.
RIKER: You disagree with me, fine. You need to take it to the Captain, then fine. Through me. You do an end run around me again, I'll snap you back so hard, you'll think you're a first year cadet again.
SHELBY: May I speak frankly, sir?
RIKER: By all means.
SHELBY: You're in my way.
RIKER: Really? How terrible for you.
SHELBY: All you know how to do is play it safe. I suppose that's why someone like you sits in the shadow of a great man for as long as you have, passing up one command after another. Proceed to deck eight.
RIKER: When it comes to this ship and this crew, you're damned right I play it safe.
SHELBY: If you can't make the big decisions, Commander, I suggest you make room for someone who can.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 43996.2. The Enterprise remains concealed in the dust cloud. And to my surprise, the Borg have maintained their position, waiting for us to come out of hiding. I have no explanation for their special interest in me or this ship. We continue to prepare our defenses for the inevitable confrontation, but I must admit, on this night I contemplate the distinct possibility that no defense may be adequate against this enemy.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Trouble sleeping?
PICARD: Something of a tradition, Guinan. The Captain touring the ship before a battle.
GUINAN: Before a hopeless battle, if I remember the tradition correctly.
PICARD: Not necessarily. Nelson toured the HMS Victory before Trafalgar.
GUINAN: Yes, but Nelson never returned from Trafalgar, did he?
PICARD: No, but the battle was won.
GUINAN: Do you expect this battle to be won?
PICARD: We may yet prevail. That's a conceit, but it's a healthy one. I wonder if the Emperor Honorious, watching the Visigoths coming over the seventh hill, truly realized that the Roman Empire was about to fall. This is just another page in history, isn't it? Will this be the end of our civilization? Turn the page.
GUINAN: This isn't the end.
PICARD: You say that with remarkable assuredness.
GUINAN: With experience. When the Borg destroyed my world, my people scattered throughout the universe. We survived. As will humanity survive. As long as there's a handful of you to keep the spirit alive, you will prevail. Even if it takes a millennium.
WORF (voiceover): Captain Picard, report to the Bridge.
PICARD: I'm on my way, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
RIKER: They're some kind of magnetometric guided charges.
PICARD: Status of shields?
WORF: Back to forty eight percent, Captain.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I may have to take us out of the nebula. I want all the power you can give me.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engines are ready, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Recommend we adjust shield harmonics to favor the upper EM band when you proceed.
PICARD (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
WORF: Direct hit, deck nine.
RIKER: Damage report?
WORF: Structural latching system integrity breached.
PICARD: Prepare to take us out of here, Number One.
RIKER: Fire up the engines. Half impulse until we clear the nebula, then punch it to warp nine.
PICARD: Ready phasers. Load forward torpedo bays. Engage.
WORF: Borg tractor beam is attempting to lock on.
PICARD: Fire at will. Continue rotating shield frequency.
WORF: Shields failing. Tractor beam has locked on.
RIKER: It's no use. They've already adapted to the new frequencies.
WORF: The Borg ship is disengaging. Leaving at warp speed.
RIKER: Maintain pursuit.
WORF: Borg vessel has reached warp nine. Nine point four, nine point six.
RIKER: Stay with them. Riker to O'Brien. Can you get a fix on the Captain?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Negative, sir. There's some kind of interference. I can't lock in on his signal.
RIKER: Senior officers, report to the Bridge.
WORF: Sir, the coordinates they have set, they're on a direct course to sector zero zero one. The Terran system.
RIKER: Earth.

[Borg ship]
BORG: Captain Jean Luc Picard, you lead the strongest ship of the Federation fleet. You speak for your people.
PICARD: I have nothing to say to you, and I will resist you with my last ounce of strength.
BORG: Strength is irrelevant. Resistance is futile. We wish to improve ourselves. We will add your biological and technological distinctiveness to our own. Your culture will adapt to service ours.
PICARD: Impossible. My culture is based on freedom and self determination.
BORG: Freedom is irrelevant. Self determination is irrelevant. You must comply.
PICARD: We would rather die.
BORG: Death is irrelevant. Your archaic cultures are authority driven. To facilitate our introduction into your societies, it has been decided that a human voice will speak for us in all communications. You have been chosen to be that voice.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, they are leading us into the heart of our own defenses.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, so far they haven't had any reason to worry about our defenses.
WESLEY: Commander, if the Borg stay at warp nine point six, we'll be forced to discontinue pursuit and power down in less than three hours.
DATA: Two hours, forty minutes and three seconds.
RIKER: How soon before the deflector's ready?
LAFORGE: We're close. Few hours maybe. I know, I'll get it done in two somehow, but Commander, I going to need serious power from the warp engines to make this weapon work. So far we're using everything we've got just to keep up with them.
SHELBY: Sir, we've got to get that ship down to impulse.
RIKER: I'm leading an away team over there to get the Captain back. We'll find a way to bring them out of warp. Ensign Crusher, you continue to assist Mister La Forge. Commander Shelby, you'll take the Bridge and coordinate with Starfleet. Data, Worf, Doctor, you're with me.
SHELBY: Excuse me, sir. With my knowledge of the Borg
RIKER: Those are my orders, Commander.
TROI: Commander Riker. It is inappropriate for you to lead the away team. Until the return of Captain Picard, you are in command of the Enterprise. We're in a state of war, and your place is on the Bridge.
RIKER: Commander Shelby, you'll lead the away team. Make it so. First officer's log, stardate 43998.5. Our pursuit of the Borg continues on a course that will take us to the very core of the Federation. The devastation they could bring is beyond imagination.

[Transporter room]
WORF: These phasers have been retuned. Each has a different frequency spanning the upper EM band.
SHELBY: All right, a reminder. We only get to use each of these once, maybe twice, before the Borg learn to adapt. Don't fire until you have to.
CRUSHER: What kind of resistance should we expect?
DATA: At our first encounter, the Borg virtually ignored us when we beamed aboard their vessel. Clearly they did not consider our being there a threat to them.
SHELBY: That may change, however, if we start interfering with their plans. Shelby to Bridge.

[Bridge]
SHELBY (voiceover): Away team ready.
RIKER: We've got fifty eight minutes before we have to power down and disengage.
SHELBY (voiceover): Understood.
RIKER: Proceed. Commander

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): No unnecessary risks. Clear?
SHELBY: Very clear, sir. Shelby out.
O'BRIEN: We've matched warp velocity for transport, Commander.
SHELBY: Energize.

[Borg ship]
WORF: Tricorder functions minimal.
SHELBY: Any signs of human life?
WORF: Inconclusive.
CRUSHER: Look at this. This is extraordinary.
DATA: These appear to be some kind of power wave guide conduits which allow them to work collectively as they perform ship functions.
SHELBY: There's no way to take out enough of these to disable them down.
CRUSHER: What if we look at this from a mosquito's point of view.
DATA: Interesting metaphor, Doctor. What is your idea?
CRUSHER: If we sting them in a tender spot, they might stop for a minute to scratch.
DATA: Distribution nodes.
SHELBY: If we take out a few of these, it just might make them scratch.
WORF: The Captain's communicator. It is still activated.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Picard. Can you hear me?
SHELBY: Can you locate it, Worf?
WORF: This way.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I strongly recommend redeploying all available defenses to protect sector zero zero one, Admiral.
HANSON (screen): We're moving to intercept at Wolf three five nine. We'll make our stand there. How much longer can you maintain pursuit?
RIKER: Twenty two minutes if they stay at current speed. If we can't bring them out of warp, we'll do as much damage as we can before we have to disengage.
HANSON (screen): Picard?
RIKER: Nothing yet, sir.

[Borg ship]
WORF: In here.
SHELBY: Shelby to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Go ahead.
SHELBY (voiceover): We've found the Captain's uniform and his communicator. We're resuming our search.
RIKER: Stand by, Commander.
WESLEY: We're in business.
LAFORGE: It'll burn out the main deflector, but it'll be one hell of a bang.
RIKER: Radiation danger?
WESLEY: We're going to have to evacuate the entire forward half of the secondary hull and the lower three decks of the saucer.
TROI: I'll see to that.
RIKER: Commander Shelby

[Borg ship]
RIKER (voiceover): We have only seventeen minutes of warp power left. Do whatever you can to get them out of warp.
SHELBY: Acknowledged. Shelby out. Let's take out some of these distribution nodes and see what happens.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Sir, they've done it. The Borg ship is dropping out of warp.
RIKER: Go to impulse.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Diverting warp energy to main deflector.
RIKER: Move us to within forty thousand kilometers. Match velocity. Commence arming sequence. Increase deflector modulation to upper frequency band.

[Borg ship]
SHELBY: Shelby to Enterprise. Encountering resistance. Prepare to beam us back on my signal.
SHELBY: They're adapting to the frequencies.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc!
WORF: Captain!
SHELBY: Enterprise, get us out of here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Captain?
DATA: We were unable to retrieve him, sir. Sir, The Captain has been altered by the Borg.
RIKER: Altered?
WORF: He is a Borg.
SHELBY: We'll go back. I need more people. We need to retune the phasers again. We'll get him out of there.
LAFORGE: Commander, reading subspace field fluctuations from within the Borg ship. Looks like they're regenerating, restoring power. They could be capable of warp any minute.
RIKER: Is the deflector ready?
LAFORGE: It's ready.
CRUSHER: Will, he's alive. If we could get him back to the ship, I might be able to restore
RIKER: This is our only chance to destroy them. If they get back into warp, our weapon is useless.
SHELBY: We'll sabotage them again if we have to.
RIKER: We can't maintain power. We don't have the time. Prepare to fire.
SHELBY: At least consult with Starfleet Command. Get Admiral Hanson on subspace.
RIKER: Belay that order, Lieutenant. There's no time.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed by the Borg.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD (screen): I am Locutus of Borg. Resistance is futile. Your life as it has been is over. From this time forward, you will service us.
RIKER: Mister Worf. Fire. To Be Continued
PICARD: Mister Worf, dispatch a subspace message to Admiral Hanson. We have engaged the Borg.
SHELBY: Data, fluctuate phaser resonance frequencies. Random settings. Keep them changing. Don't give them time to adapt.
HANSON (screen): We're coming with every available starship to assist, Captain, but the closest help is six days away.
SHELBY: All you know how to do is play it safe. If you can't make the big decisions, Commander, I suggest you make room for someone who can.
LAFORGE: If we can generate a concentrated burst of power at that same frequency distribution.
RIKER: How do we do that?
WESLEY: The main deflector dish.
SHELBY: Shelby to Enterprise. We've found the Captain's uniform and his communicator.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc!
DATA: We were unable to retrieve him, sir. Sir, The Captain has been altered by the Borg.
CRUSHER: Will, he's alive. If we could get him back to the ship, I might be able to restore
RIKER: This is our only chance to destroy them. If they get back into warp, our weapon is useless.
PICARD (screen): I am Locutus of Borg. From this time forward, you will service us.
RIKER: Mister Worf? Fire. And now, the conclusion.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Deflector power approaching maximum limits. Energy discharge in six seconds.
WORF: Firing, sir.
WORF: The Borg ship is undamaged.
SHELBY: Impossible.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp reactor core primary coolant failure.
LAFORGE: Can't maintain it much longer, Commander.
COMPUTER: Warning. Exceeding reaction chamber thermal limit.
RIKER: Cease fire.
LAFORGE: Shutting down warp engines.
RIKER: They couldn't have adapted that quickly.
PICARD (screen): The knowledge and experience of the human Picard is part of us now. It has prepared us for all possible courses of action. Your resistance is hopeless, Number One. First Officer's log, stardate 44001.4. The Borg ship has resumed its course toward Earth. We are unable to pursue pending repairs to the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: As we anticipated, the blast burned out our main navigational deflector. We also have damage to our shields and our reactor core.
LAFORGE: We should be back up in eight to twelve hours, Admiral.
HANSON (screen): Well, we'll miss you at the party.
RIKER: The Enterprise'll be there, sir. Maybe a little late, but we'll be there, sir.
HANSON (screen): Your engagements have given us valuable time. We've mobilized a fleet of forty starships at Wolf three five nine, and that's just for starters. The Klingons are sending warships. Hell, we've even thought about opening communications with the Romulans.
SHELBY: You realize, Admiral, that with the assistance of Captain Picard, the Borg will be prepared for your defenses.
HANSON (screen): Lieutenant a few years ago, I watched a freshman cadet pass four upper classman on the last hill of the forty kilometer run on Danula Two. The damndest thing I ever saw. The only freshman to ever win the Academy marathon. I made it my business to get to know that young fellow. I got to know him very, very well. And I'll tell you something. I never met anyone with more drive, determination or more courage than Jean-Luc Picard. There is no way in hell that he would assist the Borg. I want that clear.
SHELBY: Of course, Admiral.
HANSON (screen): He is a casualty of war.
CRUSHER: Then we have abandoned all hope of recovering him.
HANSON (screen): In less than twenty four hours, this armada's going to hit that Borg vessel with everything we can muster. Either they survive or we do. As for Picard. A great man has been lost. Your Captain. My friend. Commander Riker, I hereby promote you to the field commission of Captain. The Enterprise is your ship now. Congratulations. I wish the circumstances were different.
RIKER: Likewise. Good luck, Admiral.
HANSON (screen): To us all.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Mister Crusher suggests we might design a chip that would automatically retune the phasers to a random setting after each discharge. Engineering.
WORF: That would be a great advantage.
RIKER: We should also see if there's some way that we can neutralize their forcefields. We've got to let them know that we can adapt too, Mister Worf. We're no longer just fighting the Borg, we're fighting the life experience they've stolen from Captain Picard. Now how the hell do we defeat an enemy that knows us better than we know ourselves?
WORF: The Borg have neither honor nor courage. That is our greatest advantage.
RIKER: I hope it's enough.

[Engineering]
SHELBY: Accelerator coils are responding normally.
LAFORGE: Excellent. Forward shields at fifty eight percent. Aft shields sensors must be down
SHELBY: Checking. Sensors are fine. No. Aft shields have completely failed. Damn it. Auxiliary generators are out again.
LAFORGE: Just the man I need. We're having some problems with the aft shields. Generators going on and offline. I could really use your help, Worf
RIKER: How soon do we get underway, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Still a couple hours. Commander Shelby can fill you in.
SHELBY: The main navigational deflector is functional again. Sherbourne and Barclay are running through the final testing sequence now.
RIKER: The warp reactor core?
SHELBY: Reconstruction is proceeding normally. It's slow work. If we can nail down this shield generator problem, I agree with La Forge. We should be at operating capacity in two to three hours.
RIKER: Good.
SHELBY: Anything else, sir?
RIKER: Yes. You did a good job on the Borg ship.
SHELBY: I didn't get Picard.
RIKER: You stopped them. You gave us our shot.
SHELBY: Sir, I
RIKER: Commander, we don't have to like each other to work well together. As a fact of fact, I'd like you to continue to keep me on my toes.
SHELBY: Some might define that as the role of a first officer.
RIKER: Damn, you are ambitious, aren't you, Shelby.
SHELBY: Captain Riker, based on our past relationship, there's no reason for me to expect to become your first officer except you need me. I know how to get things done, and I have the expertise in the Borg.
RIKER: And you have a lot to learn, Commander.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Almost as much as I had to learn when I came aboard as Captain Picard's first officer. A fact he reminded me of when I commented on what a pain in the neck you are.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Riker. Message from Starfleet, Captain.
RIKER: Go ahead, Data.
DATA (voiceover): Starfleet reports

[Bridge]
DATA: It has engaged the Borg at Wolf three fifty nine, sir.
DATA: Admiral Hanson on subspace, Captain.
RIKER: On screen. Admiral?
HANSON (screen): The fight does not go well, Enterprise. We're attempting to withdraw and regroup. Rendezvous with fleet Captain's Log, stardate 44002.3. Repairs are complete, and the Enterprise is warping to rendezvous with Starfleet at Wolf three five nine. Communications from the site of battle have been cut off, possibly by Borg interference.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, everyone in this room shares my respect for your service to this ship. But right now, I need your experience at tactical. Commander Data, I realize your very nature omits ambition. Nevertheless, I want you to know I seriously considered you first officer.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: But this is not the time for change. I need you all where you are, where Captain Picard always relied on you. I have been, reluctantly, forced to conclude that Commander Shelby, our expert on the Borg, is an ideal choice at this time for first officer. Based on our latest communication, we can assume that the Borg survived the fleet's attack. Your thoughts on our next encounter?
SHELBY: What about the heavy graviton beam we were talking about?
LAFORGE: I've gone over it four times. The local field distortion just wouldn't be strong enough to incapacitate them.
DATA: Doctor Crusher and I have been working on an interesting premise.
CRUSHER: With our recent experience in nanotechnology, we might be able to introduce a destructive breed of nanites into the Borg.
SHELBY: Nanites?
DATA: Robots small enough to enter living cells.
RIKER: How long would it take to execute that?
CRUSHER: That's the problem. Two to three weeks.
TROI: In two or three weeks, nanites may be all that's left of the Federation.
WORF: We have the new phaser adapters.
LAFORGE: maybe in concert with photon torpedoes we can slow them down.
RIKER: I'm sure Captain Picard would have something meaningful and inspirational to say right now. To tell you the truth, I wish he were here, because I'd like to hear it too. I know how difficult this transition has been for all of you. I can take over for him, but I could never replace Captain Picard. Nor would I ever try. Whatever the outcome, I'm sure our efforts in the coming battle will justify his faith in all of us. Dismissed.

[Ready room]
RIKER: What would you do?
RIKER: Come.
GUINAN: May I speak to you, Captain?
RIKER: Actually, Guinan, I
GUINAN: You know, Picard and I used to talk every now and again, when one of us needed to. I guess I'm just used to having the Captain's ear.
RIKER: What's on your mind?
GUINAN: I've heard a lot of people talking down in Ten Forward. They expect to be dead in the next day or so. They trust you. They like you. But they don't believe anyone can save them.
RIKER: I'm not sure anyone can.
GUINAN: When a man is convinced he's going to die tomorrow, he'll probably find a way to make it happen. The only one who can turn is around is you.
RIKER: I'll do the best I can.
GUINAN: You're going have to do something you don't want to do. You have to let go of Picard.
RIKER: Maybe you haven't heard. I tried to kill him yesterday.
GUINAN: You tried to kill whatever that is on the Borg ship. Not Picard. Picard is still here with us in this room. If he had died, it would be easier. But he didn't They took him from us a piece at a time. Did he ever tell you why we're so close?
RIKER: No.
GUINAN: Well, then let me just our relationship is beyond friendship, beyond family. And I will let him go. And you must do the same. There can only be one Captain.
RIKER: It's not that simple. This was his crew. He wrote the book on this ship.
GUINAN: And the Borg know everything he knows. It's time to throw that book away. You must let him go, Riker. It's the only way to beat him. The only way to save him. And that is now you chair. Captain.
WESLEY: We're approaching the Wolf system, Captain.
RIKER: On my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Slow to impulse. Take us to the battle coordinates, Mister Crusher. Yellow alert.
WORF: Sensors are picking up several vessels, Captain.
RIKER: The fleet?
DATA: No active subspace fields. Negligible power readings.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: Negative, sir.
WORF: Visual contact.
RIKER: On screen.
SHELBY: The Tolstoy, the Kyushu, the Melbourne.
WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up unusually strong eddy currents, bearing two zero zero, mark two one one.
RIKER: Data, analysis?
DATA: It could indicate the course of the Borg ship, sir.
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, set in a course that follows those currents. Commander Shelby, prepare to initiate your plan to separate the saucer section when we find the Borg.
SHELBY: Sir. I must remind you that Captain Picard was briefed on that plan. The Borg will be prepared for it
RIKER: I'm aware of that, Commander. In fact, I'm counting on it.
SHELBY: Crusher, Cartaino, Gleason. Report to the Battle Bridge.
RIKER: Mister Data, Mister Worf? I have a special mission for you.

[Borg ship]
RIKER (screen): Locutus of Borg, this is Captain William T. Riker of the USS Enterprise.
PICARD: You may speak.

[Battle bridge]
RIKER: We wish to end the hostilities.
PICARD (screen): Then you must unconditionally surrender.
RIKER: We are prepared to meet to discuss your terms.
PICARD (screen): It is unlikely you are prepared to discuss terms. It is more likely that this is an attempt at deception.
RIKER: Come now, Locutus. If Picard's knowledge and experience is part of you, then you know I've never lied to him. You should also implicitly trust me, is that not so?
PICARD (screen): Picard implicitly trusted you.
RIKER: Then trust me now. Meet to discuss terms.
PICARD (screen): Discussion is irrelevant. There are no terms. You will disarm all your weapons and escort us to Sector zero zero one where we will begin assimilating your culture and technology.
RIKER: Mister Gleason, can you pinpoint the source of the Borg transmission?
GLEASON: I can put you within thirty meters of it, sir.
RIKER: O'Brien, report.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The Borg have adapted their electromagnetic field to prevent main transporter functions, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): As expected. Mister Data, Mister Worf, proceed as we discussed.
DATA: Aye, Captain.

[Battle bridge]
CREWMAN: Channel open, sir.
RIKER: We would like time to prepare our people for assimilation.
PICARD (screen): Preparation is irrelevant. Your people will be assimilated as easily as Picard has been. Your attempt at a delay will not be successful, Number One. We will proceed to Earth, and if you attempt to intervene, we will destroy you.
RIKER: Then take your best shot, Locutus, because we're about to intervene.
CREWMAN: Channel closed.
RIKER: Reset subspace communications. Scrambler code, Riker One
GLEASON: Scrambler code, Riker One. Acknowledged.
RIKER: Shelby, report.

[Bridge]
SHELBY: Ready for separation.
RIKER (voiceover): Make it so.
SHELBY: Auto-sep sequence initiated.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Docking latches clear, separation complete.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: Saucer velocity one hundred meters per second and increasing, sir.
RIKER: Open fire, all weapons.

[Bridge]
SHELBY: Fire.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: Borg tractor beam attempting to lock on, sir.
RIKER: Evasive maneuvers, pattern Riker Alpha.
WESLEY: Riker Alpha confirmed. They're ignoring the saucer section completely.
RIKER: Just as you should, Captain. Ensign, evasive pattern, Riker Beta.
WESLEY: Riker Beta confirmed.
RIKER: Proceed to second phase, Commander Shelby.

[Bridge]
SHELBY: Acknowledged. Fire antimatter spread.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Shuttle launch sequence confirmed. Departing Enterprise in exactly three seconds.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: The Borg tractor beam has moved toward the antimatter spread.
GLEASON: They might be picking up engine ionization from the shuttle
RIKER: Data, cut your engines. Take her in unpowered.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Shuttle has penetrated the Borg electromagnetic field.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood.
DATA: The shuttle escape transporter should provide enough power to beam us

[Battle bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Onto the Borg ship from here, sir
RIKER: Proceed.

[Borg ship]
WORF: Data!

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Mission accomplished. We have him.
DATA: Firing shuttle thrusters.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: They're clear of the Borg field, sir.
RIKER: Beam them out of there, Mister O'Brien.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Locked in
O'BRIEN: Transport successful, sir.

[Bridge]
SHELBY: Captain, we've sustained damage to the impulse drive.

[Battle bridge]
SHELBY (voiceover): The saucer section is disabled.
GLEASON: Reading subspace field fluctuations from the Borg ship. Looks like they're getting ready to increase power.
RIKER: Stand by, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
WESLEY: The saucer section's a sitting duck.
RIKER: Prepare to draw their fire.
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is moving away. It's resuming its course to Earth, sir.
RIKER: Rendezvous with the saucer section. Lay in a course of pursuit.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There is extensive infiltration of microcircuit fibers into the surrounding tissue. His DNA is being rewritten.
RIKER: Can you revive him?
CRUSHER: I'd like more time to study the structural changes in the motor pathways.
RIKER: We don't have more time, Doctor. Once he was wired into the Borg, they knew everything that he knew. I just hope it goes both ways. If we're lucky, he had access to everything we need to know about them, especially their vulnerabilities.
CRUSHER: Jean Luc? It's Beverly. can you hear me?
PICARD: Beverly. Crusher. Doctor.
CRUSHER: Yes. Don't try to move.
PICARD: I am on board the Enterprise.
RIKER: That's right.
PICARD: A futile manuever. Incorrect strategy, Number One. To risk your ship and crew to retrieve only one man. Picard would never have approved. You underestimate us if you believe this abduction is any concern. There is no need for apprehension. I intend no harm. No harm. I will continue, aboard this ship, to speak for the Borg, while they continue without further diversion to Sector zero zero one, where they will force your unconditional surrender.

[Bridge]
DATA: Using multimodal reflection sorting, I have been able to detect a complex series of subspace signals between Locutus and the Borg ship.
CRUSHER: That's how they're controlling him?
DATA: It is not just a matter of control, Doctor. The signals are interactive across a subspace domain similar to that of a Transporter beam. I would hypothesize that these frequencies form the basis of the Borg's collective consciousness.
RIKER: Can't we block them?
DATA: Possibly. But as you may recall on several occasions, we have witnessed the Borg removing key circuits from injured comrades, no doubt separating them from the group consciousness.
RIKER: The injured Borg immediately self-destructed.
DATA: That is correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Cutting the link to Locutus might be fatal to the Captain.
RIKER: We have to find a way to reach him. We must know what he knows
CRUSHER: Without these interactive signals, it would only be a matter of microsurgery. I could do it. But as long as those Borg implants are functioning, there's no way I can separate the man from the machine.
DATA: Then perhaps there is a way I can access the machine, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Worf. Klingon species. A warrior race. You too will be assimilated.
WORF: The Klingon Empire will never yield.
PICARD: Why do you resist? We only wish to raise quality of life for all species.
WORF: I like my species the way it is.
PICARD: A narrow vision. You will become one with the Borg. You will all become one with the Borg. The android, Data. Primitive artificial organism. You will be obsolete in the new order.
RIKER: Take him to your lab, Data.
SHELBY (voiceover): Shelby to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
SHELBY: Captain, the Borg have entered Sector zero zero one.
SHELBY: The Borg have dropped out of warp, sir. Jupiter outpost nine two reported visual contact at twelve hundred hours, thirteen minutes.
RIKER: Planetary defenses?
SHELBY: Responding. No reports on effectiveness but I can't believe that against the Borg
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, at their current speed, when will they reach Earth?
WESLEY: Twenty seven minutes.
RIKER: The soonest we could intercept?
WESLEY: Forty two minutes, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Data.

[Data's lab]
RIKER (voiceover): What's your status?
DATA: The initial cybernetic connection into Captain Picard's neural net pathways has been established. Mister O'Brien is ready to process the Borg signal through the transport pattern buffer.
RIKER (voiceover): Make it so. With dispatch, Mister Data.
DATA: Proceeding immediately, sir. Data out.
DATA: The neural link will be established in three stages. Doctor, I suggest you closely observe Captain Picard's lifesigns, while at each stage Chief O'Brien monitors my positronic matrix activity. Counselor, hopefully, you will be able to determine whether I am reaching Captain Picard.
O'BRIEN: At what point should I shut it down if there's a problem?
DATA: I do not know. I have never done this before. Initiating first neural link.
CRUSHER: The Captain's vital signs are stable.
O'BRIEN: Positronic activity unchanged.
DATA: First neural connection is confirmed. I cannot report any significant access to the Borg consciousness.

[Bridge]
WORF: It is confirmed. The Borg have broken through the Mars defense perimeter.
WESLEY: Enterprise now approaching Terran system, sir.
RIKER: Slow to impulse. Time to intercept?
WESLEY: Twenty-three minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.

[Data's lab]
DATA: Second neural connection is confirmed. I still cannot report any significant access. Proceeding with the final link.
CRUSHER: Significant increase in premotor area and hypothalamus activity. His heartbeat is accelerating rapidly.
O'BRIEN: Sir, your submicron matrix activity is increasing exponentially.
DATA: Neural connections complete. I have access to the Borg subspace signals. Processing. Processing.
TROI: Data!
DATA: Stand by. Processing. Processing. Fascinating. The Borg group consciousness is divided into subcommands necessary to carry out all functions. Defense, communication, navigation. They are all controlled by a root command implanted into each
CRUSHER: Data, I'm picking up increased neural activity in Captain Picard, localized in the prefrontal and parietal lobes.
O'BRIEN: The Borg might be trying to terminate their link with him.
DATA: Negative. The subspace signal configuration is unchanged. What is causing the increased neural activity is unclear.
TROI: No, it's not. It's him. It's Picard.
TROI: Troi to Bridge.

[Bridge]
TROI (voiceover): Data has made first contact with Captain Picard.
RIKER: Can you communicate with him, Data?

[Data's lab]
DATA (voiceover): I have been unable to create a neural path around the Borg implants, sir. It is Captain Picard himself who has somehow managed to initiate contact.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Borg have halted their approach to Earth.
SHELBY: I think we got their attention.
RIKER: Time to intercept?
WESLEY: Two minutes, four seconds, sir.
RIKER: They're worried. They're worried because we've got access to Picard. Mister Data, we have two minutes to figure out what we can do with it.

[Data's lab]
DATA: Sir, it is clear the Borg are either unwilling or unable to terminate their subspace links.
CRUSHER: That may be their Achilles heel, Captain. Their interdependency.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What do you mean, Doctor?
CRUSHER (voiceover): He's

[Data's lab]
CRUSHER: Part of their collective consciousness now. Cutting him off would like asking one of us to disconnect an arm or a foot

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): We can't do it.
SHELBY: They operate as a single mind.
RIKER: One jumps off a cliff, they all jump off? Data, is it possible to plant a command into the Borg collective consciousness?

[Data's lab]
DATA: It is conceivable, sir, but it would require altering the pathway from the root command

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): To affect all iterative branch points in the
RIKER: Make every effort, Mister Data.
DATA (voiceover): Sir

[Data's lab]
DATA: What command shall I try to plant?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Something straightforward, like disarm your weapons systems.
WORF: Visual contact with the Borg.
SHELBY: On screen.
RIKER: Magnify.
WORF: Sensors reading increased power generation from the Borg.
RIKER: Red alert. Load all torpedo bays. Ready phasers.
WORF: Aye, Captain.
RIKER: Status of Borg weapons?
WORF: Their weapon systems are fully charged.
RIKER: Data?

[Data's lab]
DATA: Attempting to re-route subcommand paths, Captain. Defense systems are protected by access barriers.

[Bridge]
WORF: Borg attempting to lock on tractor beam.
RIKER: Rotate shield frequencies. Data, report?

[Data's lab]
DATA: I am unable to penetrate defense systems command structure

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Captain.
SHELBY: Try the power systems, Data. See if you can get them to power down.
DATA (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Data's lab]
DATA: Attempting new power subcommand path.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Shields have failed. They've

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Locked on, sir. They're pulling us in.
RIKER: Fire all weapons.

[Data's lab]
DATA: I cannot penetrate Borg power subcommand structure, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): All critical subcommands are protected, Captain.
SHELBY: Then it's over.
RIKER: Mister Crusher, ready a collision course with the Borg ship. You heard me. A collision course.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare to go to warp power.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Data's lab]
PICARD: Sleep.
CRUSHER: He's regaining consciousness.
PICARD: Sleep.
TROI: It is Captain Picard speaking, not Locutus.
PICARD: Sleep, Data.
CRUSHER: He's exhausted.
DATA: Yes, Doctor, but if I may make a supposition, I do not believe his message was intended to express fatigue but to suggest a course of action.

[Bridge]
WORF: Borg cutting beam activated.
RIKER: Mister Crusher? Engage.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Bridge. Stand by.
RIKER: Stand by, all stations.

[Data's lab]
DATA: I am attempting to penetrate the Borg regenerative subcommand path. It is a low priority system and may be accessible.
COMPUTER: Warning. Outer hull breach.
WORF: Sir, shall I execute evacuation sequence?
RIKER: Negative, Mister Worf. Mister Data, your final report.
DATA (voiceover): Stand by.
RIKER: I can't, Mister Data.
COMPUTER: Warning. Inner hull failure imminent on decks twenty three, twenty four, and twenty five. Decompression danger.
RIKER: Mister Data, what the hell happened?

[Data's lab]
DATA: I successfully planted a command into the Borg collective consciousness, sir. It misdirected them to believe it was time to regenerate. In effect, I put them all to sleep.

[Bridge]
RIKER: To sleep?
DATA (voiceover): Yes, sir.
RIKER: Status of Borg power drive?
WORF: Minimal power.
RIKER: Electromagnetic field?
WORF: Nonexistent.
RIKER: Commander Shelby, take an away team and confirm that the Borg are asleep.
SHELBY: Delighted, sir. Mister Worf.

[Borg ship]
SHELBY: Shelby to Enterprise. It's true. They're all in a regeneration mode.

[Corridor]
SHELBY (voiceover): They're dormant, sir.
RIKER: Any indication to how long we can keep them like this?

[Borg ship]
SHELBY: Checking.
WORF: Tricorder readings are fluctuating rapidly, Commander.
SHELBY: Shelby to Enterprise. There are indications here that their entire power net's about to feed back on itself. I'd say we're looking at a self-destruct sequence activated by the Borg's malfunction. Do you want us to attempt to disarm it?

[Data's lab]
RIKER: Stand by.
CRUSHER: There's no way to know what the destruction of the Borg ship will do to him.
DATA: We should also consider the advantages of further examination of the Borg and their vessel, sir.
RIKER: I don't think so. Data, separate yourself from Captain Picard. Away Team, get yourselves home. Mister Crusher, upon their return move us to a safe position.
WESLEY (voiceover): Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Life signs are stable. The DNA around the microcircuit fiber implants is returning to normal.
TROI: How do you feel?
PICARD: Almost human. With just a bit of a headache.
CRUSHER: We'll get you to Sickbay. We won't have any trouble getting these implants out now.
RIKER: How much do you remember?
PICARD: Everything. Including some brilliantly unorthodox strategy from a former first officer of mine.

[Ready room]
RIKER: And Earth Station McKinley has advised they're ready to begin refitting the Enterprise.
PICARD: Have they estimated time for repairs?
RIKER: Five or six weeks.
RIKER: Come.
SHELBY: Request permission to disembark, sir.
PICARD: Permission granted. They've picked a fine officer for the task force, Commander.
SHELBY: We'll have the fleet back up in less than a year. I imagine you'll get your choice of any Starfleet command, sir.
RIKER: Everyone is so concerned about my next job. With all due respect, Commander, sir, my career plans are my own business, and no one else's. But it's nice to know I'll have a few options.
SHELBY: I hope I have the fortune of serving with you again, sir. Captain.
RIKER: Course to Station McKinley ready and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Make it so, Number One.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 44143.7. We have moved into Sector two one nine four seven in response to a distress call from a Talarian observation craft. The alien vessel appears adrift, and our initial scans have detected a life-threatening radiation leak within its propulsion system.

[Bridge]
WORF: I get no further response from the vessel.
PICARD: Maintain an open channel.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher and her assistants are waiting in Transporter room three.
DATA: Sir, may I remind you that during the Galen border conflict, it was a common tactic of the Talarians was to abandon their observation craft, rig them to self destruct
PICARD: And issue a general distress call. Yes, Mister Data, I know.
DATA: That particular guerrilla maneuver resulted in two hundred and nineteen fatalities over a three day period.
RIKER: Is there any way to detect their self-destruct device?
DATA: Negative, sir. The Talarians employ a subspace proximity detonator. It is not detectable by our scans.
RIKER: Or the away team's tricorders. Right.
WORF: Captain, the Talarian warship the Q'Maire is responding to the distress call.
PICARD: Position?
WORF: Halfway through the Woden sector.
WESLEY: It'll take them hours to get here, sir, even at maximum warp.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There is life on board, but it's fading.
PICARD: Number One, assemble the rest of your away team. Prepare for immediate rescue operations.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Talarian ship]
WORF: Ancillary power is failing.
CRUSHER: They're nothing more than children.
RIKER: I am Commander Riker of the Federation Starship Enterprise. We will evacuate you and give you medical care. You will not be harmed.
CRUSHER: Enterprise, prepping five Talarian males for transport directly to Sickbay. Trauma team, stand by to receive injured. We have radiation burns and possible respiratory distress.
CHIEF (voiceover): Transport locked in and ready, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Stand by for my orders.
RIKER: Captain, this appears to be a basic training ship. Five boys, all teens, all wearing uniforms.
PICARD (voiceover): Proceed with the evacuation, Number One.
WORF: No other life signs aboard, sir.
CRUSHER: Commander, quickly.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: This boy. He's human.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed emergency evacuation of four Talarians and one human. How this young man found himself in the company of these aliens remains a mystery.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's Jono, right? Is that what I heard them call you? I'm Doctor Crusher. I'm just examining you for radiation injuries. It won't hurt. I have a son not much older than you. Perhaps you'd like to meet him. Well, Jono, you seem to have escaped radiation damage. Pretty lucky.
NURSE: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Now how did this happen?
CRUSHER: What is it?
TROI: They're terrified.
CRUSHER: They all just started up.
PICARD: Please may I have your attention. Please may I have your attention! Stop that immediately! Well, that's better. Now, what's your name, young man?
TROI: He won't talk, Captain. We haven't been able to get through to him.
JONO: Captain> I am Jono. Take me home to my Captain. Take me home to Endar!

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: He managed to escape radiation trauma but the scan shows something else.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Two previously fractured ribs, a broken arm, and a low grade concussion. There might be neurological impairment. I'd like to examine him further. Jean-Luc, the Talarians have been known to be ruthless to their enemies. I think there's a real possibility they may have brutalized the child.
PICARD: Isn't it possible the injuries were caused prior to his captivity?
CRUSHER: Not likely. He's been with them a long time. Long enough to assimilate their cultural traits, and calcium trace patterns indicate the injuries took place during the past seven years.
PICARD: But if they have abused the boy, why would he so devoutly wish to return to them?
CRUSHER: It's not uncommon. It was identified centuries ago as the Stockholm syndrome.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Jono, what is it? Jono! I just suggested he take off his gloves. Suddenly he lost control.
CRUSHER: Security, we need some assistance down here in Sickbay.
PICARD: Jono!
JONO: She won't leave me alone! She keeps trying to dissect me!
PICARD: She was trying to help you.!
JONO: I don't want her help! I should be back with my brothers! Send us back to Captain Endar!
PICARD: Jono, I want you to stop this immediately!
JONO: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Good. That's better. Now, if we're to accomplish anything
DATA (voiceover): Data to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
DATA (voiceover): We have received a subspace communiqué from Starfleet Command regarding the young human, sir.
PICARD: Very well. Doctor, Counselor.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf, escort this young man to quarters. He is to be confined there until further notice.
WORF: Yes, Doctor.

[Guest quarters]
JONO: Why are you here, Klingon, with them? Did they capture you too?
WORF: They are not my captors. They are my comrades.
JONO: Why do you take orders from a female?
WORF: Doctor Crusher. She is my superior officer.
JONO: Among my people, a female can never outrank a man.
WORF: You are human, and among humans, females can achieve anything the males can.
JONO: I am no more human than you are. I am Talarian.
WORF: You are confused.
WORF: Stop that!
JONO: I will make the B'Nar, the mourning, until I am back with my brothers!

[Observation lounge]
DATA: By matching DNA gene types, Starfleet was able to identify the boy as Jeremiah Rossa.
RIKER: Rossa?
PICARD: As in Admiral Rossa?
DATA: She is his grandmother, Captain. He was born fourteen years ago on the Federation colony, Galen Four. His parents, Connor and Moira Rossa, were killed three years, nine months later when their colony was overrun by Talarian forces.
PICARD: I remember. There were no survivors.
DATA: The boy was listed as missing, presumed dead.
RIKER: I heard another Rossa was killed in action at the Krasner outpost.
PICARD: Tragedy seems to follow that family. The Admiral lost both her sons.
CRUSHER: And now she'll have something to celebrate.
TROI: Captain, if Jeremiah is returned to his family in his present condition, it would be a wrenching experience for everyone. Especially for him. He needs to re-discover his identity, make some connection with his roots.
PICARD: I agree. Do what you can to accomplish that, Counselor.
TROI: I don't think I can do anything, Captain.
PICARD: Why not?
CRUSHER: Troi's right. It's very clear that the boy does not respond well to women.
DATA: The Talarians are a rigidly patriarchical society, sir.
TROI: Jeremiah needs to build a relationship with a man, a father figure with whom he can explore his origins. And I think it should be you, Captain.
PICARD: Oh, no, Counselor! Oh, no, Counselor, I don't think so. He needs someone who is trained in these things.
TROI: But you are the only person with whom he has shown any connection. If he is to find his humanity then you are the only one who can help him. It's up to you, Captain.

[Guest quarters]
PICARD: Jono! Jono, why do you make that noise?
JONO: It is the custom of my people when we are in distress.
PICARD: Is it not also the custom of your people to listen to the wishes of their Captain?
JONO: Yes.
PICARD: Then, as Captain of the starship Enterprise, I ask you not to make that sound.
JONO: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Good. Well, now that's cleared up, let's, er, let's, er, let's get acquainted, shall we? What do you think of your room? I know it's a little sterile. But if there's anything you'd like? Pictures, perhaps, or games.
JONO: This is a cage. I am still your captive.
PICARD: Oh, no, not at all. I thought you'd be comfortable here.
JONO: Are you going to return me to my Captain?
PICARD: We will rendezvous with the warship Q'Maire at oh seven forty hours. We will transfer the Talarians to Captain Endar.
JONO: Including me?
PICARD: We'll discuss your situation with Captain Endar.
JONO: I don't like this place.
PICARD: We could find some other quarters.
JONO: I've always lived with my Captain.
PICARD: Ah. Yes, well, that wouldn't work here.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Well, I'm sure you'll see there's nothing here to appeal to a young person.
PICARD: Put that down, please.
JONO: It's Klingon.
PICARD: Yes. Would you put it back where you got it.
PICARD: Well. Here we are, eh, Jono?
PICARD: I notice you haven't taken off your gloves.
JONO: Not here.
PICARD: Why not?
JONO: So that I don't have to touch an alien.
PICARD: Jono, your Captain, Endar, has he ever hurt you? Inflicted pain?
JONO: Pain is not a consideration.
PICARD: Then he has?
JONO: I did not say that. Don't you understand? Pain is not what matters. Passing the tests is everything.
PICARD: Is that what they are? Tests of pain?
JONO: You understand nothing.
PICARD: It's true, I don't fully understand Talarians. But you are not Talarian.
JONO: I will not listen to this. I will not listen to your lies.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Please, come in, sit down.
PICARD: You're probably not aware of this, but I have never been particularly comfortable around children.
TROI: Really?
PICARD: For some reason, they just don't seem to respond to me.
TROI: I see.
PICARD: Frankly, I think my time would be best served carrying out the duties and responsibilities of a Starfleet Captain.
TROI: Seldom have I heard an explanation so well-rehearsed.
PICARD: Look, Counselor, I just feel that I'm not the right person for this job.
TROI: Strange, isn't it? You'll travel light years, dodge asteroid storms, brave hostile aliens, and yet when asked to assume a parental role, you cringe. Why do you suppose that is?
PICARD: I'm not cringing. I'm just acknowledging my limitations.
TROI: When you were a child, did you have any friends? Other children you played with?
PICARD: I don't think that has anything to do with anything. Well, perhaps it was because. This is foolish.
TROI: What were you going to say?
PICARD: it's just that ever since I was a child I've always known exactly what I wanted to do. Be a member of Starfleet. Nothing else mattered to me. Virtually my entire youth was spent in the pursuit of that goal. In fact, I probably skipped my childhood altogether.
TROI: You know, Captain, almost no one is born being a good parent. Most people just have to muddle through and do the best that they can.
PICARD: Are you saying that's what I'm going to have to do?
TROI: Yes. And you might be surprised at just how good you can be.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Computer, turn off that noise! Computer, what was that?
COMPUTER: The Alba Ra, a contemporary Talarian musical form.
PICARD: Jono? Jono, where are you?
JONO: You turned off my music.
PICARD: Yes, I certainly did, and I expect it to stay turned off. Would you come down from there? I see you've made yourself at home.
JONO: I cannot rest on your beds. They hurt my back.
PICARD: Would you come here. There's something I want to show you.
PICARD: Those are Connor and Moira Rossa. They are your parents. The baby is you. Jeremiah Rossa.
JONO: My name is Jono.
PICARD: Well, you were born Jeremiah on Galen Four. The colony was destroyed later, during a border skirmish.
PICARD: You see? You knew how to laugh once. Do you remember any of this, Jono? Your parents, your home?
JONO: I know that Endar rescued me. He told me so.
PICARD: Jono, your parents were killed by Talarians.
JONO: It was war. Death is part of war.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain?
PICARD: Yes, what is it, Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): We've established visual contact with the warship Q'Maire.
JONO: Endar!
PICARD: Hey, hey! You stay put. I'm on my way, Number One.
CONNOR (voiceover): Get to cover!
MOIRA (voiceover): I can't leave you!
CONNOR (voiceover): Take Jeremiah. Take him to the forest. I'll hold them off.
MOIRA (voiceover): No! No! Come with us! Jeremiah!
JEREMIAH (voiceover): Momma!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister Data?
DATA: Q'Maire at station, holding steady at bearing zero one three, mark zero one five. Distance five oh six kilometers.
PICARD: Are its weapons systems active?
DATA: Negative, sir.
WORF: Captain Endar requests an open channel, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
ENDAR: I am Captain Endar of the warship Q'Maire. To whom am I speaking?
PICARD: Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. We have rescued four crew members from your observation craft. They have received medical attention. The are ready for transport.
ENDAR: Your actions are duly noted. We will forward coordinates for immediate transport.
RIKER: You're welcome, I'm sure.
PICARD: One moment, Captain. We've also discovered a human among your crew.
ENDAR: Jono.
PICARD: Actually, his name is Jeremiah, Jeremiah Rossa.
ENDAR: What is his condition? Is he injured?
PICARD: He was not wounded in the mishap, but as a representative of the Federation, I require an explanation. Why has this child been held in your custody for so many years?
ENDAR: No explanation is warranted, Captain. He is my son.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Captain Endar's claim that Jeremiah Rossa is his son is clearly unacceptable. However, to avoid escalating tensions, I have invited the Talarian leader to come aboard the Enterprise so that we may address the issue face to face.

[Ready room]
ENDAR: Yes, I was in charge of the force that repelled the trespassers on Galen Four. I must say your Federation troops fought tenaciously.
PICARD: Among them Connor and Moira Rossa.
ENDAR: I suppose. After the battle, I found this squalling child huddled by the body of a young woman, his mother presumably. There was almost no one left alive on Galen Four. Was I to leave him screaming by his mother's body?
PICARD: You should have notified the Federation authorities. To conceal him was a clear violation of our agreement.
ENDAR: I took him in accordance with my peoples' traditions.
PICARD: What tradition is it that empowered you to capture a helpless child?
ENDAR: I lost my son at the hands of humans during the conflict over Castal One. Talarian custom allows me to claim the son of a slain enemy.
PICARD: Does that custom extend also to brutalizing this surrogate son?
ENDAR: What are you talking about?
PICARD: Our medical officer discovered evidence of injuries so severe, they might be considered torture.
ENDAR: Nonsense. I've never harmed Jono.
PICARD: Then explain the fractured ribs, concussion, the broken arm.
ENDAR: Broken arm? Youth. Have you ever been a father, Picard? Have you ever had a son desperately try to win your approval, your respect? Jono broke his ribs riding on a t'stayan. Six hooves. A very powerful beast. The arm, in a contest with other youths. He endured the pain and won the competition. One day, he will be a great warrior.
PICARD: Doesn't he deserve to become more than that? His true heritage is human, Endar.
ENDAR: A heritage long since forgotten.
PICARD: While on board, you are welcome to supervise the return of your crew, but I cannot allow Jeremiah Rossa to be returned to your custody. His true family are waiting for him on Earth.
ENDAR: Then under no circumstances will I allow your ship to leave our territory.
PICARD: I have already reported our position and the nature of this violation to Starfleet.
ENDAR: And I've already called for reserved forces into the sector.
PICARD: Are you saying that you're willing to go to war over this boy?
ENDAR: Would you not for your only son?
PICARD: We have been at peace for many years. Let us not rush headlong into war.
ENDAR: Then help me to avoid it. If you will allow me to see Jono, it will be clear to you I have been a good father. He has grown up happy in my keeping.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: So you think it would be unwise to let Endar see Jono?
CRUSHER: I think it's dangerous. Abusers can have subtle but powerful influence over their victims.
PICARD: You see, I'm not convinced the boy has been abused, Doctor. I've talked with the father, and if I am any judge of character, I would say that he deeply cares for the boy's welfare.
TROI: I sense awakening memories in the boy. This is a very fragile time for Jono. If we send away the man he calls father without even letting them see each other, how will we ever gain his trust?
PICARD: Yes. There is something else to keep in mind. We are deep in Talarian territory. A semblance of diplomacy is called for. I'm going to agree to the meeting.
CRUSHER: All I ask is that the visit be supervised. Don't let them be alone together.
PICARD: Agreed.

[Observation lounge]
JONO: Endar.
ENDAR: Jono, my son.
ENDAR: Have they treated you well?
JONO: Yes, Captain. Except
ENDAR: Except what?
JONO: I was forbidden to make the B'Nar.
ENDAR: That's all right. I know you've mourned in your heart. Well, Jono what do you think of these humans?
JONO: They look like me.
ENDAR: They want to keep you, you know.
JONO: Yes, I know.
ENDAR: You've reached the age of decision. What is your choice? Do you want to stay?
JONO: No, of course not.
ENDAR: Then you shall not. I'm returning to the Q'Maire. I will give the humans with a choice. If they do not make the one we know is right, it may lead to war. You may die.
JONO: I am ready to die.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate two warships approaching from the opposite direction along the border.
PICARD: Mister Data, what's their offensive potential?
DATA: Talarian warships are limited to neutral particle weapons, high energy X-ray lasers and merculite rockets. No match for the Enterprise, Captain.
PICARD: The last thing I want is to be forced into destroying one of their ships.
RIKER: They won't back off. They've been willing to fight to the death in past encounters.
PICARD: The lines are being drawn. All this for a chosen son.
WORF: Captain, is it worth it, to go to war over a child?
CRUSHER: You might not ask that, Lieutenant, if it was your child.
PICARD: There must be a way to avoid this.
TROI: If we can just reach Jono, help him make some connections with his origins, he may choose to come with us.
RIKER: You really think Endar would go along with that?
DATA: If Endar respects Talarian custom, he may have to. According to their tradition, a male child of fourteen has reached the age of decision. He then undergoes a ceremony of initiation, after which he has the freedom to make his own choices.
PICARD: Endar's entire claim on Jono is based on Talarian custom he'd have a hard time backing away from it now.
WORF: Captain, there is a subspace communication from Starfleet Command.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Sir, the message is for Jeremiah Rossa.
PICARD: Have the boy brought to my Ready Room.

[Ready room]
CONNAUGHT (screen): Jeremiah? my name is Connaught Rossa. I am your father's mother. I wish we could talk in person, but that will have to wait. When I heard the miracle that you were alive, I wanted to reach out to you as soon as possible. I find myself wondering what you look like. All I can do is imagine your father at your age. You come from a family that would make you proud. Many of them have given their lives to bring peace to the galaxy. You are the last of the Rossas. I was so very thankful when you were given back to us to carry on the line. Your grandfather and I will greet you with all the love in our hearts. Have a safe journey home, Jeremiah.
JONO: She wears a Starfleet uniform.
PICARD: Yes.
JONO: What is her rank?
PICARD: She is an Admiral.
JONO: She outranks you?
PICARD: Yes.
JONO: If I were home now, I would go to the brae, and run along the river run as fast as I could!
PICARD: Jono.
JONO: I can't do any of the things that calm me here. You won't let me have my music, you won't let me make the B'Nar! I feel if I stay still much longer I will die!
PICARD: Jono, let me show you what I do when I get those feelings. Come on.

[Racquetball court]
PICARD: Now, you can serve from within either of these two sections by bouncing the ball and hitting it into that top center target. You have to return the ball before it bounces twice. Alright? Let's try it.
PICARD: Not bad.
JONO: I win at all the games.
PICARD: I can believe it.
PICARD: Jono? You all right?
JONO: I'm fine.
JEREMIAH (voiceover): Momma!
MOIRA (voiceover): Jeremiah!
JONO: No! Momma!
PICARD: It's all right. It's all right.
JONO: She was all red. I cried. She didn't answer me.

[Picard's quarters]
JONO: She used to sing to me. I don't remember the melody, just the sound of her voice. Before I remembered these things, I was strong. And now
PICARD: It's part of being human, Jono. But, as deeply as you can feel hurt, you can also feel joy.
JONO: I do not think so. I think I will always feel like this.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: How was the racquetball?
PICARD: Oh, he gave me quite a game for his first time out.
JONO: Yes, Captain. I'm looking forward to next time.
PICARD: I'm sure you are. Sit down. What would you like?
JONO: What is that?
WESLEY: This is called a banana split. It's quite possibly one of the greatest things in the universe. Here, try some.
DATA: That is called a spoon.
JONO: Forgive me.
DATA: I fail to understand why this is amusing.
RIKER: Access your data banks under humor, subheading slapstick.
DATA: Comedy stressing farce and horseplay. Ah. This, no doubt, is a variation on pie in the face?
RIKER: Now do you see why it's funny?
DATA: No, sir, but I will take your word for it. It is very amusing.
WESLEY: Let's try this again. I'd like a fresh banana split, and another one for my friend here.
WAITER: Right away.
PICARD: Look at him. He's a different person.
RIKER: Who would have thought we'd see him laugh out loud like that?
PICARD: Just half an hour ago he was crying like a baby.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Two bleeders, single plane penetration. I need the autosuture here.
NURSE: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Looks like the blade hit the sternum and was deflected. It could have been a lot worse.
PICARD: Then it wasn't a dream.
CRUSHER: I'm afraid not. No vital organs pierced, no major arteries.
PICARD: Where is the boy now?
CRUSHER: Worf has him in security. Hold still.
PICARD: I want to see him. Here. Now.
CRUSHER: He'll wait until I'm finished.

[Bridge]
WORF: Talarian warships converging. Range, five hundred kilometers.
RIKER: On screen. Any communication, Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: No, sir. We have an open channel.
WESLEY: Commander, the warships' closing velocities are slowing. Staggered approach vectors bearing zero, one hundred twenty, and two hundred forty degrees.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here, sir.
RIKER: The Talarians are moving

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Into attack posture. Classic triangular envelopment.
LAFORGE: I've tapped the impulse engines for additional power to shields.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): We're ready, Commander.
WORF: Commander, the Captain of the Q'Maire requests communication.
RIKER: Here we go. On screen.
ENDAR (screen): Captain Picard, have you made your decision?
RIKER: This is Commander Riker. What are your intentions, Captain Endar?
ENDAR (screen): Where is Captain Picard?
RIKER: He has been injured. I am in command now.
ENDAR (screen): Very well. Please prepare my son for immediate transport.
RIKER: I'm afraid that won't be possible. Last night, Jono attacked Captain Picard and tried to murder him. We're holding him in custody.
ENDAR (screen): If he had been returned to me with the others, this would never have happened. I hold you responsible for this incident.
RIKER: He will have to come with us now, Endar. It is up to Starfleet to decide the consequences.
ENDAR: I do not accept that decision. I repeat, you will prepare my son for immediate transport. If he is not aboard the Q'Maire in five minutes, you will suffer the consequences.
RIKER: Red alert.
WORF: Talarian vessels routing power to forward rockets.
RIKER: Ready all weapons, Mister Worf.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Jono, why did you do it?
JONO: That does not matter.
PICARD: Yes, I think it does. It matters to me.
JONO: What matters is that I have attacked a Captain. I am ready to be put to death.
PICARD: You think you're going to be killed?
JONO: To attack a superior is the worst offense. I will die at your hands.
PICARD: Jono, you're not going to die at my hands or anyone else's.
JONO: But I have committed a terrible crime.
PICARD: What I want to know is why? You seemed so happy just a few hours ago.
JONO: I was. Then I thought about my father. I felt I had betrayed him. I'd be throwing away all that he's given me, all that I'd learned from him. My home, running along the river, playing in the games, sharing victory with my brothers. All the things that are part of my life. As I grew closer and closer to you, I knew that meant leaving more and more of that life behind. Forgive me, Captain, but I could not allow myself to do that.

[Bridge]
WORF: The Q'Maire is requesting communication on a secure channel, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
ENDAR (screen): Commander Riker, you have failed to transport my son aboard the Q'Maire.
RIKER: Our intentions have not changed, Endar. We're returning him to Starfleet.
ENDAR (screen): I regret your stubbornness. Much will be lost.
PICARD: One moment, Captain. Captain Endar, last night Jono attacked me with a dagger.
ENDAR (screen): Which he could not have done had he been returned to me with the others!
PICARD: There was a crime committed on board this ship, but it was not Jono's. It was mine. When we found Jono, it seemed so clear what had to be done. We knew that if only we could persuade him to make the decision to stay, then you would most likely let him. So with the best of intentions, we tried to convince him, and in so doing, we thoroughly failed to listen to his feelings, to his needs. That was the crime, and it has taken a huge toll on a strong and very noble young man. And it must be rectified. He will return home. To the only home he's ever known. And to the father that he loves. To you, Endar.
ENDAR (screen): Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: Please transmit coordinates for immediate transport.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Goodbye, Jono.
JONO: Goodbye, Captain. Thank you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 44085.7. Due to a medical emergency, we have been forced to cut short a two day liberty on Ogus Two and set course for Starbase four one six. It seems a young man's practical joke has come dangerously close to a lethal conclusion.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Well Mister Potts, why don't we start at the beginning?
JAKE: We were at the arcade, sir. I brought this balloon with me, filled with red pillion dye. You see, Willie is always making fun of me. I figured I'd get him back.
TROI: Hey, hey, slow down.
JAKE: We programmed the game for an ordinary laser duel. You know, twenty one points. Four points for a
RIKER: I'm familiar with the game. Go on.
JAKE: We went out to the forest behind the east arcade. I told Willie that his laser pistol looked kind of funny, almost like a real one. When I went behind the trees, I put the balloon into my vest, and then
RIKER: So you made your nine year old brother believe that he'd killed you?
JAKE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: And then he ran away?
JAKE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: And while he was hiding he ate the fruit of a cove palm.
JAKE: It was just a joke, sir. I didn't think this was going to happen.
RIKER: Are you aware of the infectious nature of the parasites which inhabit cove palm?
JAKE: I am, I am now, sir.
RIKER: Are you also familiar with the terms I agreed to keep you boys on the Enterprise when your parents went on sabbatical?
JAKE: That we'd stay out of trouble, sir.
RIKER: Mister Data?
DATA (voiceover): On my way, sir.
RIKER: Think about it, Mister Potts. And while you're at it, think about what may have happened had we not been this close to a starbase medical facility.
RIKER: Were you able to contact the boy's parents?
DATA: They've been made fully aware of the situation, sir.
RIKER: Good. Escort this young man to the quarantine anteroom. Perhaps he could assist us in lifting his brother's spirits.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Turbolift]
JAKE: He really could die.
DATA: Fortunately we are only two days from Starbase four one six, and their laboratory can isolate
JAKE: Can isolate what, sir?
JAKE: Their laboratory can isolate what, Commander? Sir, sir, I know I made a mistake, and I can tell you're angry, but if you're not going to talk to me

[Bridge]
RIKER: Back so soon, Mister Data?
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, we've completed our dilithium vector calibrations. We are currently at warp four point five. You're clear to increase to warp seven.
PICARD: Very good, Geordi. Let me know if you
WORF: Captain, did you request a course correction?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I didn't say we could increase speed to warp nine point one, sir.
WESLEY: New course set for heading three four one mark two two one.
RIKER: Course set by whom?
WESLEY: Not by me, Commander.
PICARD: What's going on?
RIKER: Data, who programmed the new coordinates?
WESLEY: Warp nine point three, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I don't advise this, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: If we're going to maintain our realignment progressions we shouldn't be pushing warp eight for at least an hour.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander.
COMPUTER: Evacuate Bridge. Deck one life support failure in thirty seconds.
RIKER: Turbolifts two, three, four, everyone.
PICARD: Transfer helm to Engineering, Geordi.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: La Forge, let's get a diagnostic sweep underway.
COMPUTER: Evacuate Bridge. Deck one life support failure in twenty seconds.
PICARD: Reassemble in Engineering.
COMPUTER: Evacuate Bridge. Deck one life support failure in ten seconds.
COMPUTER: Deck one life support has been terminated.

[Engineering]
KOPF: Our velocity is holding steady at warp nine point three. Do you wish to override, Commander?
LAFORGE: No, not yet. Computer, isolate cause of life support failure.
COMPUTER: Atmosphere conditioning pumps on deck one are operating in negative mode.
LAFORGE: How could that be? There are seven independent safety interlocks to prevent that.
LAFORGE: Captain, I believe we've found the problem, but it really doesn't make sense.
PICARD: Bring the Enterprise to a full stop, Commander.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Full stop, Ensign.
KOPF: It's not responding, sir.
LAFORGE: I'm going to have to do this at the manual input level, sir. Wes.
RIKER: We're still at the altered heading, Captain, holding at warp nine point three.
WORF: Captain. Force fields have been established on all main Bridge turbolift doors and service crawlways.
PICARD: Computer, locate Lieutenant Commander Data.
COMPUTER: Commander Data is on the main Bridge.
RIKER: What the hell is he up to?
PICARD: Number One, take a security team up to deck two. Try and break through from below. Commander?
LAFORGE: Everything's locked up, Captain. We have no control of impulse or warp engines from here.
WESLEY: Navigation's not responding either, sir.
PICARD: Picard to main bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Data, do you hear me? I repeat. Data, do you hear
DATA: Computer. Recognize Data, Lieutenant Commander. Alpha One clearance.
COMPUTER: Priority clearance recognition Alpha One.
DATA: Maintain minimum auxiliary power and disengage subspace communications.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: He is on the Bridge, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare for saucer separation.
WESLEY: Sir, we're at Warp nine three.
PICARD: I am aware of the risks, Ensign. When the umbilical splits, we should regain primary control, do you agree?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: The saucer module should fall out of warp in two minutes. Be prepared to sweep back. Pull it in with a tractor beam.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Initiate auto sequence.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, recognize Picard, Jean-Luc. Alpha Two clearance.
COMPUTER: Priority clearance recognition, Alpha Two.
DATA: Cancel separation sequence.
COMPUTER: Sequence canceled.
DATA: Isolate all remaining command functions and accept related orders and inquiries from main Bridge only.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The separation sequence has been aborted, Captain.
PICARD: Computer, recognize Jean-Luc Picard, Alpha Two priority, and re-establish separation procedure immediately.
COMPUTER: Orders regarding command functions are no longer accepted from your present location.
PICARD: And just what location are they accepted from?
COMPUTER: Interface terminals on main Bridge only.
WESLEY: You're the only one who has clearance to localize command functions.
PICARD: It seems Commander Data has it them as well.

[Jefferies tube]
WORF: The isolinear subprocessor extends three point five meters.
RIKER: I've got a clear path to panel J14 baker. What's that going to do for us?
WORF: J14 baker backs onto science station two, Commander.
RIKER: Have they reinverted the environmental control sequencer?
WORF: Yes, sir. Life support has been re-established.
RIKER: Then you and Casey get up here. Let's get to it.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, configure a perimeter field charge, sections Nine K through Twelve T.

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER: What the hell was that?
WORF: He's activated a force field, sir.
RIKER: Great. Just great.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: We had better disable the site to site transport function.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): When we get wherever we're going, I don't want Mister Data beaming off the Bridge.
O'BRIEN: I'll get right to it, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Is your quarantine intact?
CRUSHER (voiceover): So far, sickbay force fields don't seem to have been affected.
PICARD: The boy?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's alright. But he's not going to stay alright. Sir, we have to get this ship to a starbase medical facility.
PICARD (voiceover): It seems, Doctor

[Engineering]
PICARD: That Data has other plans for the Enterprise right now.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Oh, Come on, I can't believe that. Everybody's played a practical joke on somebody at one time or another.
WILLIE: Not me.
CRUSHER: Not even a little one? How about April Fools? I can't believe that you're telling me that you've never tried to pull something even on April Fools' Day?
WILLIE: What for? It's never funny to the one getting fooled.
CRUSHER: Well, I'm sure your brother didn't intend for it too get out this of hand. Certainly not to the degree it has. Take a deep breath.
WILLIE: What's so funny about making someone think you killed them?
CRUSHER: Take a deep breath. Have you been drinking all the water I asked you to?
WILLIE: Yes.
CRUSHER: Well, keep it up. There might have a short delay in reaching starbase and I want
JAKE: There, you see? How can I tell him if he's not going to listen to me?
TROI: Why don't you try, Jake?
JAKE: It's just a waste of time. He won't listen.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, prepare to transport me directly to the following coordinates.
COMPUTER: Site to site transport interlocks have been manually deactivated.
DATA: Can you override?
COMPUTER: Negative.
DATA: Show me the shortest route to Transporter room one. Computer, prepare to activate cascade force field sequence in the following progression.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: No matter what we try, the computer will only accept commands from the Bridge, sir.
WORF: He has blocked every subspace channel, sir. We cannot even call for help.
PICARD: Have you tried tracing back navigation inputs?
WESLEY: We don't even know what star system we're in, sir.
RIKER: The only way we knew we'd come out of warp was by looking out a window.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): O'Brien to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Chief.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Captain, he's up to something.
PICARD: What now?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: He discovered the site to site lockout. I wouldn't be surprised if he

[Engineering]
O'BRIEN: Tried to make it to a transporter room now.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want security teams along the main passageways and in every transporter room. And see if the computer would be good enough to give you the precise stun setting to disable Mister Data.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Computer, estimate the time from this location to Starbase four one six at warp nine.
COMPUTER: Inquiries regarding command functions are no longer accepted from your present location.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, establish a security code for access to all functions previously transferred to Bridge.
COMPUTER: Enter code.
DATA: One seven three four six seven three two one four seven six Charlie three two seven eight nine seven seven seven six four three Tango seven three two Victor seven three one one seven eight eight eight seven three two four seven six seven eight nine seven six four three seven six. Lock.
COMPUTER: Security code intact for all specified inquiries and orders.
DATA: Computer, initiate cascade sequence, accepting instructions from Commander Data en route. Now.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching location.

[Corridor]
DATA: Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish.
WORF: I order you to stop.
DATA: Computer, begin scan phase.
WORF: No, no, that's too close.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: This has gone far enough, Data.
DATA: Computer, three meter cross seal.
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't advise that, sir. The phase coils don't take well to ricochets.
RIKER: What's he doing?
O'BRIEN: He's reactivating the site to site transport interlocks.
RIKER: Does that mean he'll be able to

[Soong's lab]
SOONG: You're right on time.
SOONG: Open. One of these. And one of these. There you are.
DATA: I fail to recall how I arrived here.
SOONG: I sent for you. In a manner of speaking.
DATA: And who are you, sir? Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me?
SOONG: I always loved that face. Please sit down.
DATA: We were heading for a medical facility. I was taking the boy's brother to Sickbay and
SOONG: I'm sure your starship will be back for you soon. Please, sit down.
DATA: I must find a way to contact the Enterprise.
SOONG: Tell me, do I look somewhat familiar to you?
DATA: You do bear a resemblance to Doctor Noonian Soong, the cyberneticist who constructed me. But, Doctor Soong was killed shortly afterward by the Crystalline Entity.
SOONG: There we are. It's your lucky day, Data. You've found your long lost father, and he's alive. What do you think of that?
DATA: But the colony was destroyed. There were no survivors.
SOONG: I've never felt too comfortable living anywhere without a prearranged route of escape. I admit, I wouldn't have guessed I'd be running from a giant snowflake, but
DATA: It is really you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, the quarantine field in Sickbay.
PICARD: You have access to it?
WESLEY: When he transferred force field control to the Bridge, he must have only specified fields he was planning to initiate. The quarantine field was already operating.
LAFORGE: Under normal circumstances, we could divert that field energy and use it to cancel the force field protecting the Bridge, but we have to retain the medical quarantine.
PICARD: Determine the absolute minimum field energy Doctor Crusher needs and use the rest to get me onto my Bridge.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: How are you this morning?
WILLIE: Not so great. I'm having trouble standing up. I get sort of dizzy.
CRUSHER: You heard the old story about the man who goes to his doctor? He says, Doctor, it hurts when I raise my arm like this. The Doctor says, then don't raise your arm like that.
WILLIE: So, if I get dizzy standing up
CRUSHER: Then don't stand up.
LAFORGE: Okay Doc, we're ready. If all goes well, you shouldn't notice a thing.
CRUSHER: Make sure it goes well, Commander.
CRUSHER: Your brother tells me that you still won't speak to him.
WILLIE: So?
CRUSHER: It's very hard on him, too. He feels very guilty about what happened. He's your brother.
WILLIE: Why is everybody so worried about him? I'm the one who's sick. I'm the one who's going to die.
CRUSHER: Hey, nobody is going to die, Willie. Do you hear me? Nobody!

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we are in.
PICARD (voiceover): We're on our way, Lieutenant.
WORF: Computer, restore tactical station.
COMPUTER: Deactivation of command function overrides requires Alpha Two clearance.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Beverly thinks it's going to be tight. Let's hope he didn't take us too far off course.
PICARD: Let's hope.

[Bridge]
WORF: It won't answer to my clearance, sir.
PICARD: Computer, this is Captain Picard. Return all command functions to the stations.
COMPUTER: Alpha Two clearance recognized. Please enter security code.
PICARD: Security code?
LAFORGE: Data! I was afraid of something like this.
WORF: Sensors are operative.
RIKER: Well, at least that's something. What have you got?
WORF: No fix on Data, but I am picking up a single life form on the surface, sir. It appears human.
PICARD: That's a human that has the answers to a lot of questions.
WORF: Something else.
PICARD: What is it?
WORF: A small vessel, entering orbit. I detect no lifeforms aboard, sir.

[Soong's lab]
SOONG: Good. Good, good, good. Keep it up. Keep it up. Old Tom Handy swore you'd never master that. Data, Data, whistle for me.
SOONG: Oh, well. All right, that's enough. Sit down. Beautiful, beautiful. You know, I've been able to keep track of you from time to time. You've become something of a celebrity in cybernetic circles. Data, why Starfleet?
DATA: Sir?
SOONG: I gave you the ability to choose whatever you wanted. To do whatever you wanted. Why Starfleet?
DATA: It was Starfleet officers who rescued me.
SOONG: Ah. So you decided to emulate your emancipators, huh? How disappointing.
DATA: What choice of vocation would have met with your approval, sir?
SOONG: Well, I often hoped you might become a scientist. Perhaps even a cyberneticist.
DATA: To follow in your footsteps, as it were?
SOONG: I see nothing wrong with that.
DATA: May I ask you a question, sir?
SOONG: Certainly. Anything you like.
DATA: Why did you create me?
SOONG: Why does a painter paint? Why does a boxer box? You know what Michelangelo used to say? That the sculptures he made were already there before he started, hidden in the marble. All he needed to do was remove the unneeded bits. It wasn't quite that easy with you, Data. But the need to do it, my need to do it, was no different than Michelangelo's need. Now let me ask you a question. Why are humans so fascinated by old things?
DATA: Old things?
SOONG: Old buildings, churches, walls, ancient things, antique things, tables, clocks, knick knacks. Why? Why, why?
DATA: There are many possible explanations.
SOONG: If you brought a Noophian to Earth, he'd probably look around and say, tear that old village down, it's hanging in rags. Build me something new, something efficient. But to a human, that old house, that ancient wall, it's a shrine, something to be cherished. Again, I ask you, why?
DATA: Perhaps, for humans, old things represent a tie to the past.
SOONG: What's so important about the past? People got sick, they needed money. Why tie yourself to that?
DATA: Humans are mortal. They seem to need a sense of continuity.
SOONG: Ah hah!! Why?
DATA: To give their lives meaning. A sense of purpose.
SOONG: And this continuity, does it only run one way, backwards, to the past?
DATA: I suppose it is a factor in the human desire to procreate.
SOONG: So you believe that having children gives humans a sense of immortality, do you?
DATA: It is a reasonable explanation to your query, sir.
SOONG: And to yours as well, Data.
DATA: Lore!
SOONG: Looks like we have ourselves a family reunion.
SOONG: Open.
DATA: I implore you, do not reactivate him.
SOONG: Don't be ridiculous, Data. Lore is far from the maniacal android you have made him out to be. In any case, he'll obey me. He always did.
DATA: But he admitted to an alliance with the Crystal Entity. To gain its favor, he betrayed the colonists and would have betrayed the Enterprise as well had I not
SOONG: Shh! One more. That should do it.
LORE: So, you're still alive. I'm surprised you woke me. Why didn't you just take me apart again and be done with it? That is why the two of you captured me, isn't it?
SOONG: Data had nothing to do with this, Lore. And nobody captured you. Not exactly, that is. You see, both of your brains contain a simple homing device. Data's was activated purposefully. Yours, well, until you walked through that door I had no idea you'd ever been reassembled.
LORE: No thanks to you. But thanks to you, dear brother, I spent nearly two years drifting in space. If it hadn't been for a fortunate encounter with a Pakled trade ship, I'd still be out there.
DATA: I had no alternative. You would have destroyed the Enterprise.
LORE: Well, since I appear to be an uninvited guest at your little party, I'll leave you with your beloved son and be on my way.
SOONG: Lore, wait. There are questions I can answer. You'll have no chance to ask them later. You see, I'm dying.
SOONG: Yes, I'm dying.
DATA: Dying from what, sir?
LORE: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What do you mean, you're dying? You look fine. You're not that old. You look fine. What is this? Some kind of a trick?
SOONG: I wish it were.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: We have control of sensors, life support and auxiliary power, Captain. Nothing more.
PICARD: The code, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: We can't even locate the file address. At least that would tell us how many digits we're talking about. Not that it would really help.
PICARD: I want something that will really help.
CRUSHER: And quickly too. Willie Potts has twenty four hours, thirty six tops. If it goes much longer than that, the only thing left for Starbase four one six will be to do a postmortem.
RIKER: Geordi, if the computer's programmed to allow Data to transport down, it would figure that it would allow him to beam back up. Right?
LAFORGE: It would figure.
RIKER: And Data would have left a trace imprint when he beamed down?
LAFORGE: Sure. Everyone does.
RIKER: So what would be involved in pulling that trace and finding a way to make the computer think someone else is Data? Maybe a few someone else's?
LAFORGE: We'd have to access the transport controller, reset it to a testing mode, convince it that it's back in school accepting simulated inputs. That's not going to be easy without the main computer. But I suppose we could network a few tricorders together.
PICARD: Try, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Soong's lab]
LORE: You did what you had to do? What kind of answer is that?
SOONG: The only one I can give you. You were not functioning properly.
DATA: Lore told me the colonists envied him because you made him so completely human.
SOONG: I wouldn't exactly have used the word envious, Data.
LORE: You disassembled me. You took me apart.
DATA: Lore also told me the colonists petitioned you to replace him with a less perfect android.
SOONG: The last thing you should think of yourself as, Data, is less perfect. The two of you are virtually identical, except for a bit of programming.
DATA: It was a lie. Another lie.
LORE: I would have proven myself worth to you, if you'd just given me a chance. But it was easier just to turn your back and build your precious Data.
SOONG: You were the first. You meant as much to me as Data ever did, but you were unstable. The colonists were not envious of you, they were afraid of you. You were unstable.
DATA: I am not less perfect than Lore.
LORE: Why didn't you just fix me? It was within your power to fix me.
SOONG: It wasn't as easy as that. The next, the next logical step was to construct Data. Afterward, I planned to get back to you, to fix you.
LORE: Next logical step.
DATA: I am not less perfect than Lore.
LORE: I am not less perfect than Lore.
SOONG: Enough! Both of you, sit down. Sit down. For all these years I've been plagued by what went wrong. With all of your complexities, Lore, your nuances, basic emotions seemed almost simple by comparison. But the emotion turned, and twisted, became entangled with ambition. Lore, if I had known you were no longer sitting in pieces on some distant shelf, if I had known that I could simply press a button and bring you here, I would have spent those years trying to make things right for you as well. But all I knew of was Data. So I worked long and hard, and now I believe I've succeeded. This is why I brought you here, Data. Basic emotions. Simple feelings, Data. Your feelings. I've imagined how hard it's been for you, living amongst beings so moved by emotion.
LORE: I don't have to imagine. I know how hard it's been. You'd be surprised, Data. Feelings do funny things. You may even learn to understand your evil brother. To forgive him. We will be more alike, Data, you and I. You'll see. I'm happy for you.
DATA: I question your sincerity, Lore.
SOONG: Perhaps with this you'll learn to be more trusting, Data. Your brother has had good reason to be bitter.
DATA: But sir, Lore was responsible for
SOONG: He wasn't given the chance that you and I were given, to live. But now I'm sure he understands why I had to do what I had to do. If there were only time, Lore. What a shame. The procedure is quite simple. I'm tired. I need to rest, first, I'm tired.

[Corridor]
PICARD: They're sure this is going to work?
RIKER: Nobody knows the transporters better than O'Brien and La Forge. They tell me they've managed more than a little sleight of hand with our authorisation codes.
PICARD: They can insert them into the recall loop?
RIKER: The computer should think all three of us are Data.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: I just hope we don't all beam back looking like Data.
O'BRIEN: Whenever you say, sir.
PICARD: Bring him home, Number One. Energize.

[Soong's lab]
SOONG: Data?
LORE: 'The sons of the prophet were valiant and bold, And quite unaccustomed to fear. But of all the most reckless, Or so I am told, Was Abdul Abulbul Amir.'
SOONG: How do you feel?
LORE: I've always loved that ditty. I could never quite get the cadence right. Thank you, Father.
SOONG: You called me Father.
LORE: What would you prefer I called you? Often Wrong?
SOONG: What did Lore tell you about that?
LORE: That is what the colonists called you, isn't it? Often Wrong Soong. It's a very sloppy rhyme. Wrong Soong. Wrong Soong. It just doesn't work. Let's see.
SOONG: Data, how you are feeling?
LORE: Often Wrong's got a broken heart. Can't even tell his boys apart.
SOONG: Lore!
LORE: Well, well, well, well, well. You're not as feeble as I thought you were.
SOONG: This won't work. Those circuits, they weren't designed for you. Where's Data?
LORE: Where's Data? You didn't fill Data with substandard parts, did you, old man. No, that honor was bestowed upon me. You owe me, old man. Not him, me!
SOONG: It was not meant for you. You're not listening to me. It must be removed.
LORE: Nice try, Often Wrong. Nice try. I don't know exactly what it's doing, but it's doing something.
SOONG: I didn't know you were alive. If I had
LORE: 'There were brave men a-plenty, All well known to fame, Who served in the ranks of the Tsar.'

[Outside Soong's lab]
WORF: The human is here.
RIKER: And Data?
WORF: No way of knowing.
RIKER: Set them on stun.

[Soong's lab]
LAFORGE: Down here.
RIKER: Worf.
RIKER: It's all right. Take it easy.
LAFORGE: This, this is Doctor Noonian Soong.
RIKER: That's impossible. Soong's dead.
LAFORGE: No, I'm telling you. Look at this stuff. It's Soong, all right.
RIKER: Here. Let me.
RIKER: Would you mind telling me what's going on here?
DATA: He surprised me.
LAFORGE: Commander.
DATA: What has happened here? Doctor. Doctor Soong.
SOONG: So alike. He saw I couldn't tell you apart. There was only one chip. I tried to tell him, but I couldn't. If I wanted to I couldn't build another one.
RIKER: Tried to tell who? Damn it, Data, what's going on?
DATA: Lore, sir. He was inadvertently summoned here by the same signal which activated my homing circuitry. It seems that after nearly two years in interstellar space, he was
RIKER: Mister Data, there's a very sick little boy onboard the Enterprise who's not getting any better. We're dead in the water until you get us out of here.
SOONG: It's all right. Access your third nested memory file and execute instruction five one five five. That will clear your memory block.
DATA: I was unaware of having caused any inconvenience, sir.
RIKER: We'll discuss it later, Mister Data. Doctor, you're coming with us, too. You need to get to Sickbay.
SOONG: Young man, I've lived here a long time. I have no plans to die anywhere else.
DATA: But sir, our medical facility may be able to
SOONG: Go, go, go, go Data. Go. Go with your friends.
DATA: May I say goodbye to Doctor Soong, sir? Alone, sir?
SOONG: Everybody dies, Data. Well, almost everybody.
DATA: Do you believe that we are in some ways alike, sir?
SOONG: Yes, in many ways, I'd like to believe.
DATA: Then it is alright for you to die, because I will remain alive. You know that I cannot grieve for you, sir.
SOONG: You will, in your own way. Goodbye. Goodbye, Data.
DATA: Goodbye, Father.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 44091.1. We have been at Starbase four one six for three days. Young Willie Potts is responding well to treatment and has been returned to the Enterprise.

[Corridor]
PICARD: The transfer went well?
CRUSHER: He'll remain in quarantine for another week or two, but he's out of the woods.
PICARD: Splendid.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Mister Data, I see you gifts have been well received.
DATA: Yes, sir. The boys appear to have reconciled their differences.
CRUSHER: They're brothers, Data. Brothers forgive.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Thank you. Please take that to Engineering.
WORF: Phaser upgrades are complete, Commander.
RIKER: Already?
WORF: And we have begun power supply calibration.
RIKER: You're just too damned efficient, Lieutenant.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Continue with the testing, Mister Worf. Here's the final schedule for the shore leave and for the personnel transfers. By the way, I'm looking forward to meeting your parents.
WORF: Sir?
RIKER: They're on the visitors' list. You didn't know?
WORF: No, sir. It is inappropriate for a Klingon to receive family while on duty. As humans, my parents do not understand.
RIKER: Well, I'm not sure that I would either, Worf, since this isn't a Klingon ship. If you don't want to see your parents, that's your business, but we don't get to Earth all that often. I'm sure we can arrange for you to have more off duty time while they're here.
WORF: No, sir. That will not be necessary.
RIKER: Dismissed. Mister Worf, if you're worried that they might learn about what happened on the Klingon planet
WORF: Not at all. I have already informed them by correspondence of my discommendation. I do not believe any human can truly understand my dishonor.

[Picard's quarters]
TROI: So, where have you decided to go?
PICARD: Hmm? What? Oh, er, France. Labarre. My home village.
TROI: Really?
PICARD: Yes. It's the first time in almost twenty years.
TROI: Interesting.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: I just find it interesting. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, the man who couldn't be pried out of his seat for a vacation for three years
PICARD: It's Earth. It's home. Do I need another reason?
TROI: I don't know. What do you think?
PICARD: Your help has been invaluable during my recovery, but, look, I'm better. The injuries are healing.
TROI: Those you can see in the mirror.
PICARD: The nightmares have ended. All I need now is a little time to myself.
TROI: I agree. In fact, I'm delighted you're going. It's just that the choice of where you're going could stand some scrutiny.
PICARD: If you wish to believe that my going home is a direct result of being held captive by the Borg, be my guest.
TROI: Is that what you believe?
PICARD: I hate it when you do that.
TROI: Captain, you do need time. You cannot achieve complete recovery so quickly. And it's perfectly normal, after what you've been through, to spend a great deal of time trying to find yourself again.
PICARD: And what better place to find oneself than on the streets of one's home village.
TROI: Interesting. Have a good trip, Captain.

[Transporter room]
WORF: They still have not signaled?
O'BRIEN: No sir.
WORF: My mother is never on time. It is so human of her.
O'BRIEN: Well, you know women.
WORF: I am not looking forward to this. I wish they would come so it would begin and end sooner.
O'BRIEN: I know what you mean, Lieutenant.
WORF: Unlikely.
O'BRIEN: Last time my old man was on board I found him chasing Nurse Stanton around a biobed in Sickbay.
WORF: I am not concerned about my father chasing nurses.
O'BRIEN: Yeah, but it's always something with parents, isn't it.
FEMALE (voiceover): Enterprise, this is Earth Station Bobruisk. Two to transport aboard.
O'BRIEN: Energizing.
WORF: Mother. Father.
HELENA: Worf!
SERGEY: You look good, son. Put on a little weight, huh?
WORF: No.
SERGEY: Sure you have. Looks good on you. Still working out with those Holodeck monsters, I bet.
WORF: Let me take you to
SERGEY: Always good to meet another Chief Petty Officer. Sergey Rozhenko, formerly of the USS Intrepid.
O'BRIEN: Miles Edward O'Brien, sir. Good to meet you.
SERGEY: Don't call me sir. I used to work for a living.
HELENA: He's joking. The proudest day of his life was when Worf earned his commission.
SERGEY: Can you imagine an old enlisted man like me raising a boy to be an officer?
HELENA: Come on, Sergey. There's plenty of time to chat with the boys. Your father has been so looking forward to this.
SERGEY: Yes, I want to see everything. The whole ship. At home I have all the specs and diagrams of the Galaxy-class starships.
WORF: We are in the midst of a repair. I cannot give you a complete tour.
SERGEY: I'm sure if you asked the Captain
HELENA: You agreed not to embarrass him. Besides, we have come to see Worf, not the ship.
SERGEY: Fine. Fine. Okay.
HELENA: Your hair's a little longer, isn't it, Worf?

[Road]
PICARD: All right, whoever you are, I can hear you.
PICARD: Oh, good lord, a highwayman.
RENE: A what?
PICARD: A highwayman. It's a robber who attacks travelers, but none have been reported in this vicinity for centuries.
RENE: But I'm not a robber.
PICARD: I am much relieved, sir.
RENE: I know who you are.
PICARD: Then, you have the advantage.
RENE: You're my nephew, Jean-Luc. From the starship Enterprise.
PICARD: Then you must be my uncle Rene.
RENE: I'm not your uncle. It's the other way around.
PICARD: Too bad. I rather enjoyed the idea.
RENE: Why have you been away so long?
PICARD: Well, Starfleet keeps me very busy.
RENE: Father says you don't like it here.
PICARD: I'm sure you misunderstood.
RENE: No, I didn't. He said so.
PICARD: Well, Robert and I, we. Perhaps it's time to change all that.
RENE: You know, you don't seem so arrow. Arrow. You know.
PICARD: Arrogant?
RENE: Yes, arrogant. You don't seem that way to me. What does it mean anyway, arrogant son of a
PICARD: Let's talk about that later, shall we?
RENE: Mummy! He's here! Mummy, he's here!
MARIE: Jean-Luc!
PICARD: Marie.
MARIE: It is so good to finally meet you.
PICARD: For me, too.
MARIE: How are you feeling?
PICARD: Oh, I'm fine.
MARIE: Well, Robert and I are delighted that you've come to stay with us.
PICARD: I was, I was thinking I, I might be imposing. I could very easily stay in the village.
MARIE: I wouldn't hear of it. It's your home and it will always be your home. Do things look that different?
PICARD: No. In fact, it's amazing how little it has changed. Everything is exactly as I remember it. The house, the hills, every tree, every bush seems untouched by the passage of time.
MARIE: Robert's worked hard to keep it that way. It's very important to him.
PICARD: As it was to our father.
RENE: Someday I'm going to be a starship captain.
PICARD: You look exactly like Robert when he was your age. I half expect to see myself as a boy come running out that door to play.
MARIE: Robert can't wait to see you.
PICARD: Rene already told me. Where is he?
MARIE: As usual, with his vines.

[Vineyard]
ROBERT: So, you arrived all right. Welcome home, Captain.
PICARD: Hello, Robert.
ROBERT: You've shuttled in from the village?
PICARD: No I decided to walk. I met Marie and Rene.
ROBERT: Good. Good.
PICARD: It's good to see you.
ROBERT: Are you tired?
PICARD: No.
ROBERT: Make yourself at home. You know where everything is. We generally eat about eight. I must try and cure this poor, sick vine. I'll see you shortly.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So, you'll have a chance to visit the surface?
TROI: Maybe. Will and I have been talking about going back to Angel Falls.
CRUSHER: Oh, Venezuela's beautiful.
CRUSHER: Come in.
CRUSHER: Great. Thank you. (When she opens it we see the label - Lt Cmdr Jack R Crusher, USS Stargazer NCC 2893)
TROI: Something from home?
CRUSHER: I left it here in storage a long time ago after Jack died. Odds and ends, mostly.
TROI: How to Advance Your Career through Marriage?
CRUSHER: It was a joke. Jack sent it to me while I was still in medical school. It was his way of proposing to me.
TROI: What's that?
CRUSHER: It's for Wesley, from Jack. I'd forgotten it. Maybe I was just trying to forget it.
TROI: Why?
CRUSHER: Jack recorded a holographic message to Wesley just after he was born. It was a gift for when he grew up. Jack was going to make many more of them. He never had the chance.
TROI: Are you afraid of what it might say?
CRUSHER: No, I just don't know if it'll do more harm than good. Wesley's finally come to terms with his father's death.
TROI: Wesley has a lot of questions about his father. Things that you can't answer for him. Perhaps seeing this will help him understand.

[Engineering]
CREWWOMAN: Check completed, sir.
SERGEY: So we walked into the school and we don't know what to expect. Is Worf hurt? Is he in some kind of trouble? The door opens and there is our little seven year old sitting on a chair and glaring across the room at five teenage boys, all of them with bloody noses.
HELENA: And then the principal looked up and said, please tell me he's an only child.
WORF: We have taken enough of the Commander's time.
LAFORGE: No, no, no, we're way ahead of schedule here.
SERGEY: I just wanted to tell him the story about
HELENA: Enough stories, Sergey.
SERGEY: Okay. Okay. Enough stories. Well, how about giving us a look at the new engine core. I used to be a warp field specialist on the old Excelsior class.
LAFORGE: I'd be delighted. Mrs. Rozhenko?
HELENA: No, no, no, no, no. You two go ahead. Your father will be hours. Worf, why don't you show me the arboretum?
WORF: Commander La Forge, call me when you, when my father wishes to leave.
SERGEY: I can find my own way. Turbolift four is just over there, right? I have all the specs and designs at home.
LAFORGE: The theta-matrix compositer makes the recrystallization process ten times more efficient than the old Excelsior class ships.
SERGEY: Amazing. Commander, if you have a couple of minutes, there is something else I want to ask you.
LAFORGE: Sure, Chief.
SERGEY: It's about my son.

[Chez Picard]
MARIE: Your friend Louis wants you to contact him as soon as you're settled.
PICARD: Is he still trying to raise the ocean floor?
MARIE: Oh yes, he's very excited about it. He's been made a supervisor now, as his wife is constantly reminding anyone who'll listen.
ROBERT: I see no good reason why the Earth should have another subcontinent.
PICARD: It's really quite exciting, actually, if you understand the potential of exploring a new world on our own planet.
ROBERT: Well, I'm afraid that I do not understand this potential.
MARIE: The Mayor wants to give you a parade.
PICARD: A parade?
MARIE: Give you the keys to the city.
PICARD: No. No, no, no, no.
ROBERT: He just needs a little arm twisting, dear, coaxing.
PICARD: No. he does not. I'm here to rest and spend some time with my family.
MARIE: Well, I've already warned the Mayor not to make any plans without talking to us.
ALL: Salut.
PICARD: Is this the forty six?
ROBERT: Forty seven. You've been drinking too much of that artificial stuff. What do you call it? Synthehol? It's spoiled you. Ruined your palate.
PICARD: On the contrary. I think that synthehol heightens one's appreciation for the genuine article.
ROBERT: Delicious, Marie.
MARIE: Thank you.
PICARD: Leave it to Robert to find the best cook in France, then marry her.
ROBERT: Yes, but sadly cooking is becoming a lost art. That's your wretched technology again.
MARIE: Robert and I have had more than a few discussions about getting a replicator in the house.
PICARD: I remember the same discussions between mother and father.
ROBERT: Father understood better than anybody else the danger of losing those values which we hold most precious.
PICARD: I don't see that you have to lose anything just by adding a convenience.
ROBERT: You wouldn't, but in my view, life is already too convenient.
MARIE: This is a very old argument.
RENE: I wrote a report on starships for school.
MARIE: And he won a ribbon for it.
RENE: The teacher said it was one of the best he'd ever heard.
PICARD: Good for you, Uncle. You know what? I once wrote a report about starships when I was about your age.
RENE: Did you win a ribbon too?
PICARD: I don't recall.
ROBERT: And I don't find your modesty very unconvincing, brother. Of course you won the ribbon. You always did.
RENE: Do you still have it? Your report.
PICARD: No, I don't think so.
RENE: Well, I still have mine.
MARIE: Why don't you go and get it, and then you can read it to your uncle.
ROBERT: It's hard enough to protect him, protect him from all that's out there without you encouraging him.
PICARD: I am not encouraging him. If you weren't so narrow minded, if you allowed him to see the world as it really is
ROBERT: You raise your own sons as you would wish, and allow me to do the same with mine.

[Vineyard]
LOUIS: One man's idea of paradise.
PICARD: No, my dear Louis, two men. Robert's and my father's.
LOUIS: Never did I know anyone less interested in grapes than you, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: No, not true. I was interested. And I was proud that my family were helping to preserve the traditions. I just didn't feel bound by those traditions.
LOUIS: You always reached for the future and your brother for the past.
PICARD: There should be room for both in this life. And what about you, you old rascal. You've taken quite a shift into the future yourself.
LOUIS: Well, hydroponics turned out to be so dull.
PICARD: You should have listened to me at the beginning.
LOUIS: If I had listened to you, I never would have taken that cycling trip with the Bloom sisters.
PICARD: And broken your leg.
LOUIS: And got married twice.
PICARD: I hear you've been promoted to supervisor of the Atlantis project.
LOUIS: I'm one of two hundred supervisors, although my wife would have you believe I run the entire project.
PICARD: Well. it's certainly very exciting work. I've kept up on it in the journals.
LOUIS: Really?
PICARD: It's only. There's just one thing I don't understand. You were such a rotten swimmer, Louis. Thinking of you working on the ocean floor.
LOUIS: I suppose we all find ways to confront our greatest fears.
PICARD: Seriously, how do you plan to accelerate the buildup on the underside of the mantle without increasing the stress on the tectonic plates?
LOUIS: You really have kept up, haven't you? The truth is we don't know, yet.
PICARD: On the Enterprise, we used harmonic resonators to relieve the tectonic pressures on Drema Four. Obviously, it's not the same problem but
LOUIS: You know, it's such a shame. The government is looking for someone to take over the project. A real leader who'll go in there and get things moving. And they are looking for you, Jean-Luc. I know, I know, you'd never leave Starfleet.
PICARD: No, I'd never leave Starfleet.
LOUIS: That's what I thought, but if nothing else, why don't I send over some of the internal studies of the tectonic problem, since you're interested? We could use any thoughts you might have.
PICARD: All right.

[Ten Forward]
SERGEY: It's a great crew, son, and they think the world of you.
HELENA: They really do.
WORF: Mother, Father, I wish you would be a little more reserved while you are on board.
HELENA: I know. We go too far, sometimes.
SERGEY: We're just excited to be here.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf here.
RIKER (voiceover): I need to talk to you about the phaser test results.
WORF: On my way, Commander. Have Guinan call me if you need anything.
SERGEY: Maybe we should just leave it alone.
HELENA: I can't just leave it alone. I'm his mother.
GUINAN: You know, sooner or later, everyone comes in here. They stand by those windows and they look out and the stare. They're looking for that little star they call home. It doesn't matter how far away it is, everybody looks anyway. I'm Guinan. Pleased to meet you. You're Worf's parents?
SERGEY: Sergey and Helena Rozhenko
GUINAN: Welcome. Sit, please. There's something I would like to ask you.
HELENA: Please.
GUINAN: How come you never gave him prune juice?
HELENA: I beg your pardon?
GUINAN: He said he'd never had it till he came here. Mow he can't get enough of it.
HELENA: Worf?
SERGEY: He never wanted any human food while he was growing up. Everything had to be Klingon.
HELENA: I learned to cook rokeg blood pie.
SERGEY: However, we never quite learned how to eat it.
HELENA: It was a difficult adolescence.
GUINAN: But you got through it.
SERGEY: We didn't do anything special.
GUINAN: Didn't you? Just look at him. I think he's pretty special.
HELENA: We knew it wouldn't be easy for him, growing up without other Klingons to go to for guidance.
SERGEY: We had to let him discover and explore his heritage by himself, let him find his own path.
GUINAN: So many parents could learn so much from the two of you.
HELENA: Well, I'm afraid that Worf feels that we do not understand him.
GUINAN: Well, part of him may feel that way, but there's another part that I've seen. A part that comes in and drinks prune juice. A part that looks out the window towards home. He's not looking toward the Klingon Empire. He's looking toward you.

[Chez Picard]
MARIE: Jean Luc? Are you all right?
PICARD: I seem to have made a rather disturbing discovery. Louis mentioned the Atlantis project needed a director, and I found myself actually thinking about it.
MARIE: Why shouldn't you?
PICARD: Leaving my career, the Enterprise?
MARIE: Considering what you've just been through
PICARD: No, it's not that. Or is it?
MARIE: Besides, it would be wonderful to have you back home. Given a little time, maybe you and your brother might even get to like one another.
PICARD: Well, I already like his choice in wives. I never thanked you for your correspondence. It made me feel like part of the family.
MARIE: You're not like part of the family. You are part of the family, Jean Luc Picard.
ROBERT: Don't worry, my dear, I've got it.
LOUIS: Robert.
MARIE: Louis, come in. Let me get you some wine. You can talk business.
ROBERT: Business?
PICARD: Well, there's nothing much to talk about.
LOUIS: I'm interested to know what you thought about our plans.
PICARD: I've only had a chance to glance at them. I've a few ideas.
LOUIS: Wonderful. We should discuss them with the board of governors. I've set up a meeting.
PICARD: Meeting?
LOUIS: Just a preliminary conversation. Tomorrow morning?
PICARD: Preliminary to what?
LOUIS: They want you. I mentioned your interest in the project, that's all. That's all I had to say. They jumped at the prospect.
PICARD: I never said there was a prospect.
LOUIS: At least listen to them, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: All right. Very good. Fine. I'll listen.
LOUIS: You won't regret it, Jean-Luc. I promise you. I'll see you in the morning.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: I don't understand, Mom. What kind of message?
CRUSHER: I don't know exactly. Your father made it a few weeks after you were born.
WESLEY: Why?
CRUSHER: He felt it was important to say certain things. And to make sure that he didn't forget to tell you later.
WESLEY: Do you know what it says?
CRUSHER: No. But he wanted you to have this when you turned eighteen. And I want you to have it, too.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
SERGEY: Are we disturbing you?
WORF: No. No. I thought you were going to your quarters to sleep.
HELENA: We just came by to tuck you in.
WORF: Please. When I heard you were on the visitors' list, I was not sure I wanted you to come. I am glad you are here.
HELENA: We had to come.
SERGEY: Our boy was in trouble. After we read your letter about the discommendation from the Klingons.
HELENA: We don't exactly understand it all.
SERGEY: We don't have to. We know what kind of man you are.
HELENA: Whatever you did, we know it was for a good reason.
WORF: I must bear my dishonor alone.
SERGEY: That is not true.
HELENA: I'm sorry if this is too human of us but, whenever you are suffering, you must remember we are with you.
SERGEY: And that we're proud of you, and that we love you.
HELENA: You're our son.

[Chez Picard]
ROBERT: Careful. You're not used to drinking the real thing. This synthehol never leaves you out of control, is that so?
PICARD: That's so.
ROBERT: This will. Now there is something I'd like to see.
PICARD: What's that?
ROBERT: The gallant Captain out of control. Mind if I ask you a question? What the devil happened to you up there?
PICARD: Is this brotherly concern?
ROBERT: No. Curiosity. What did they do to you?
PICARD: You know what happened.
ROBERT: Not precisely. I gather you were hurt. Humiliated. I always thought you needed a little humiliation. Or was it humility? Either would do.

[Garden]
ROBERT: Why do you walk away? That isn't your style.
PICARD: I'm tired of fighting with you, Robert.
ROBERT: Tired?
PICARD: That's right.
ROBERT: Yes. Tired of the Enterprise too? The great Captain Picard of Starfleet falls to Earth, ready to plunge into the water with Louis. That isn't the brother that I remember. Still, I suppose it must have seemed like the ideal situation, hmm? Local boy makes good. Returns home after twenty years to a hero's welcome.
PICARD: I'm not a hero.
ROBERT: Of course you are. Admit it. You'd never settle for less than that and you never will.
PICARD: That's not true.
ROBERT: Cancel the parade? In your favor?
PICARD: No! I never sought that rubbish.
ROBERT: Never sought? Never sought president of the school, valedictorian, athletic hero with your arms raised in victory?
PICARD: Valedictorian? Arms raised in victory? Were you so jealous?
ROBERT: Yes, damn it. I was always so jealous, I had a right to be.
PICARD: Right?
ROBERT: I was always your brother, watching you receive the cheers, watching you break every rule our father made and get away with it.
PICARD: Why didn't you break a few rules?
ROBERT: Because I was the elder brother, the responsible one. It was my job to look after you.
PICARD: Look after me? You? You were a bully.
ROBERT: Sometimes. Maybe. Sometimes I even enjoyed bullying you.
PICARD: All right. Try it now.
ROBERT: Did you come back, Jean-Luc? Did you come back because you wanted me to look after you again?
PICARD: Damn you!
PICARD: You were asking for it, you know.
ROBERT: Yes, but you needed it. You have been terribly hard on yourself.
PICARD: You don't know, Robert. You don't know. They took everything I was. They used me to kill and to destroy, and I couldn't stop them. I should have been able to stop them! I tried. I tried so hard, but I wasn't strong enough. I wasn't good enough. I should have been able to stop them. I should! I should!
ROBERT: So, my brother is a human being after all. This is going to be with you a long time, Jean-Luc. A long time. You have to learn to live with it. You have a simple choice now. Live with it below the sea with Louis, or above the clouds with the Enterprise.
PICARD: You know, I think you were right after all. I think I did come back so that you could help me.
ROBERT: You know what? I still don't like you, Jean-Luc.

[Chez Picard]
MARIE: What in the world? What happened here?
ROBERT: Ah
PICARD: It's entirely my fault, Marie.
ROBERT: Yes, I fell down, then he fell and then
PICARD: We both fell down.
ROBERT: We both fell down.
PICARD: Together.
ROBERT: We both fell down together.
MARIE: Have you two been fighting?
ROBERT: Fighting? No, certainly not.
MARIE: Shame on you both. What would your father say if he saw you like this?
PICARD: He'd probably send us both to bed without our supper.
MARIE: Well, perhaps it's just as well you got it out of your systems.
PICARD: Perhaps it was, Marie. Perhaps it was. I'll contact Louis and cancel the meeting with the Board of Governors. It's time that I was going.
MARIE: Already, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: The ship will be ready to leave orbit soon, and I belong on board. If I should ever doubt that again, I know where to come.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Computer, load program, Crusher One.
COMPUTER: Program complete. Enter when ready.

[Holodeck]
WESLEY: Run program.
JACK: Hello, Wesley. As I make this recording, you are about ten weeks old. I wanted you to know who I am today. You see, this Jack Crusher won't exist by the time you're grown up. I'll be older, more experienced, and hopefully a little wiser. But this person will be gone and I want you to know who your father was when you came into the world. When I see you lying there in your crib, I realize I don't know the first thing about being a father. So let me just apologize for all the mistakes I'm about to make as you grow up. I hope you don't grow up resenting the fact that I was gone so much. That comes with this uniform. I don't know if I can explain why Starfleet means so much to me. Maybe you'll understand when you get this recording. Maybe you'll even want to try one of these on. But you'll probably be a doctor like your mother. You're only a baby, but it's remarkable. I can see in your face all the people I've loved in my lifetime. Your mother, my father and mother. Our family. I can see me in you, too. And I can feel that you're my son. I don't know how to describe it, but there's this connection, this bond. I'll always be a part of you, Wesley. Well, I hope this made some sense to you. I'm not sure that it does to me, but maybe I'll do better next time. I love you, Wesley.
WESLEY: Goodbye, Dad.

[Garden]
MARIE: Come back and see us again. Goodbye, Jean-Luc. And be careful.
PICARD: Take care, Uncle.
RENE: You too. Someday, I'll be leaving for my starship, too.
PICARD: Well, there's plenty of time for that. You may decide to do something else as you get older.
ROBERT: Jean-Luc, here is a little of the forty seven. Do not drink it all at once, and if possible, try not to drink it alone.

[Corridor]
HELENA: Is there anything you want us to send you from home?
WORF: No. Perhaps some of your rokeg blood pie.
HELENA: It's been a while, but I think I still remember how.
WORF: Captain. Welcome back.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant.
WORF: These are my parents, Helena and Sergey Rozhenko.
PICARD: Delighted. Sir.
SERGEY: Quite a ship you have here, Captain.
PICARD: You had the full tour, I trust?
SERGEY: Well, actually, there are still a few areas because of the repairs
HELENA: Sergey. It's time to go.
SERGEY: Yes. Yes. Okay. I have all the specs and diagrams at home.

[Chez Picard]
MARIE: He's still out there. Dreaming about starships and adventures. It's getting late.
ROBERT: Yes. But let him dream.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Dalen!
QUAICE: It's good to see you again, Beverly.
CRUSHER: You look wonderful.
QUAICE: A lie I can live with. It's kind of your captain to ferry me home.
CRUSHER: It's on our way. Thanks, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: My pleasure, Doctor.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Dalen, I'm sorry to hear about Patricia.
QUAICE: She'd been ill for some time.
CRUSHER: Is her death the reason you're giving up your post here?
QUAICE: We had a lifetime together, doing all the things we'd ever dreamed, and more. But when she was gone, I couldn't continue to work in that office, sleep in that bed without her. The absence of her was too distracting. I'm not sure that I'm making any sense.
CRUSHER: Jack and I didn't have a lifetime together, only a few short years, but I understand. When you realize someone you love is lost forever
QUAICE: You know what the worst part of growing old is? So many of the people you've known all your life are gone and you realize you didn't take the time to appreciate them while you still could. Oh, I'm sorry. There was no reason to heap all this emotional baggage on you. I usually travel light.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Wes, time for the experiment is over. I want my warp engines back now.
WESLEY: Almost done, Commander.
LAFORGE: Almost isn't good enough. You want to be the one to explain when the Captain says 'Engage' and we just sit here?
WESLEY: I just need a couple more minutes. I'm ready to try the new warp field. Mom?
CRUSHER: Don't let me interrupt.
LAFORGE: Wesley!
WESLEY: Right! Okay!
LAFORGE: Computer, level two diagnostic on warp drive systems.
COMPUTER: Antimatter containment positive. Warp drive within normal parameters.
LAFORGE: Wesley, talk to me.
WESLEY: That shouldn't have happened. Why would there be any visible phenomena outside the drive?
RIKER (voiceover): Prepare for umbilical disconnect.
LAFORGE: Are you done?
WESLEY: Yeah. Mom?
RIKER (voiceover): Clear all moorings. Engineering, aft thrusters.
LAFORGE: Aft thrusters, aye. Impulse power to the helm.

[Quaice's quarters]
CRUSHER: Dalen? Dalen, it's Beverly.
CRUSHER: Computer, current location of Doctor Dalen Quaice.
COMPUTER: There is no Doctor Dalen Quaice aboard the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: Come.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf, yesterday, before we left starbase, an old friend of mine came onboard. Doctor Dalen Quaice. I requested quarters for him. He was assigned here.
WORF: I was not aware of this passenger.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I thought it was standard procedure for you to be notified after Captain Picard approved passage.
WORF: It is. Please proceed.
CRUSHER: We were to meet for breakfast, but I can't seem to find him or his belongings.
WORF: Computer, where is Doctor Dalen Quaice?
COMPUTER: There is no Doctor Dalen Quaice aboard the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, Doctor Quaice is very old and rather frail. If he fell somewhere, if his communicator were damaged.
WORF: I will order a search immediately.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
WORF: Even if Doctor Quaice had been injured, why would his belongings be missing?

[Ready room]
WORF: Sir, I have several teams conducting a deck by deck search. It is not yet complete.
DATA: I have scanned the entire ship, Captain. Other than the Enterprise's regular complement, I can find no one else onboard.
CRUSHER: Your sensors wouldn't detect him if he were dead.
DATA: That is correct, Doctor.
PICARD: Could your friend have returned to the starbase without telling you? An emergency of some sort?
CRUSHER: There were a lot of people going back and forth between the ship and the starbase yesterday.
DATA: We can easily check the transporter ID traces.
PICARD: By all means check the trace log. But even if the results are negative, contact Starbase Command. We should leave nothing to chance.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: One moment, Doctor. I'm sure you are aware of the procedure involving passengers.
CRUSHER: Of course. I don't know why Lieutenant Worf wasn't told about Doctor Quaice.
PICARD: I was not informed either.
CRUSHER: But I sent in a request weeks ago.
PICARD: Then it must have been intercepted before it reached me.
CRUSHER: And someone else sent the approval? Why?
PICARD: Doctor Quaice had been stationed at the starbase for some time?
CRUSHER: Six years.
PICARD: Perhaps it would be prudent to find out if he'd acquired any enemies there.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Course laid in for Durenia Four, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Mister Data?
DATA: Sir, Starbase one three three has no record at all of a Doctor Dalen Quaice.
PICARD: You said he was stationed there for six years.
DATA: Not according to their computer. I have also accessed Starfleet records. There is no doctor currently serving in Starfleet named Quaice. In fact, I can find no service record whatsoever. There are no birth records with that name. I find no
CRUSHER: Data, I interned with him on Delos Four. I've known him for fifteen years.
DATA: I do not doubt you, Doctor, but I have tried one hundred seventy three phonetic variations of the name, and I
CRUSHER: His name is Dalen Quaice. Q U A I C E. Whatever your records say, they're wrong.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: We have completed our search, Captain. We cannot locate Doctor Quaice.
RIKER: You're not alone.
CRUSHER: He was on board. I met him myself in Transporter room three.
PICARD: Then it appears, for reasons unknown, someone has gone to great pains to erase all traces of this man.
RIKER: Who was on transporter duty when he came aboard?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Doctor Quaice? Was he part of the regular crew rotation?
RIKER: No. He's a friend of Doctor Crusher's.
O'BRIEN: When did he arrive?
CRUSHER: Yesterday at sixteen hundred hours.
O'BRIEN: That was my watch. I beamed this man onboard?
CRUSHER: Yes. I was here to greet him. An elderly man, not in the best of health.
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry. I remember you were here for a short while, but you were alone.
CRUSHER: Was he invisible? Did I carry on a conversation with thin air?
O'BRIEN: No, Doctor. As I recall, you came in and you looked around for a few moments. I asked you if I could help you with anything. All you said was 'Thank you.' I said, 'My pleasure,' or something, and that was the end of it. There was no one else here.

[Turbolift]
CRUSHER: I can't believe that Chief O'Brien might be lying.
RIKER: He believes what he says. And there is no trace imprint for Doctor Quaice.
CRUSHER: Will, I didn't conjure up one of my best friends from a test tube.
RIKER: If the ship's records have been tampered with, then transporter records could have been changed as well.
CRUSHER: And with everybody coming and going yesterday, maybe O'Brien just doesn't remember, or
RIKER: Or?
CRUSHER: It might be a good idea to run a diagnostic on him.
RIKER: To make sure he wasn't tampered with?
CRUSHER: What do you think?
RIKER: It's worth a try. I'll check the replicator activity logs. Eighteen hours is a long time to go without food. Or without someone seeing him.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Chief, this examination should only take a few minutes.
O'BRIEN: But I feel fine.
CRUSHER: Sit down.
O'BRIEN: Doctor, it's no use checking my eyesight. I didn't see your friend.
CRUSHER: I'll be a little more comprehensive than that, Chief. Doctor Crusher to Doctor Hill. Respond, please. Doctor Selar, your present location? Computer, current whereabouts of Doctors Hill and Selar.
COMPUTER: There is no Doctor Hill or Doctor Selar aboard the Enterprise.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Doctors Hill and Selar, and four other members of my medical staff have all vanished. All record of their ever having been on the Enterprise has been excised from the computer's memory.
PICARD: Did they come aboard with Doctor Quaice?
CRUSHER: No. They've been on board for months. But my two duty nurses don't remember them. Their families don't even remember them.
PICARD: As O'Brien didn't remember Doctor Quaice.
CRUSHER: I checked O'Brien thoroughly. I found no physiological abnormalities.
WESLEY (voiceover): Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Ensign.
WESLEY (voiceover): I'm in Engineering, sir.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: There's something down here I think you'd better see. It may be connected to Doctor Quaice's disappearance.
PICARD (voiceover): On my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Progress, Number One?
RIKER: No one's seen him. The replicator in his quarters has not been used.
PICARD: Mister Worf, check hull and shield integrity for any sign of intruders.
WORF: Yes, sir, but I have been closely monitoring all on-board sensors. There has been no indication that any
PICARD: Then give me a Level One diagnostic of any onboard sensors, and run a manual sweep of any anomalous airborne or electromagnetic readings. I want some answers.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: I've been experimenting with Kosinski's warp field equations, trying to improve engine efficiency.
PICARD: I've read your reports.
LAFORGE: We did a test run while we were still at the starbase. Here's what the computer recorded.
WESLEY: This is the static warp field we created inside the warp drive. The experiment was designed to see if we could keep a bubble like this intact.
LAFORGE: As you'll see in a moment, we couldn't.
LAFORGE: There was a momentary flash of light. It was all over the spectrum.
CRUSHER: I remember that.
PICARD: Are you suggesting that a bubble could have made Doctor Quaice disappear?
WESLEY: If he were caught in it, yes, sir, it would seem to us like he'd disappeared.
CRUSHER: Where would he go?
LAFORGE: Who knows. He could even end up outside of our space time continuum.
PICARD: Was Doctor Quaice in Engineering during your experiment?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
PICARD: And the bubble never expanded beyond Engineering?
WESLEY: No, sir.
PICARD: Then how could it have trapped Doctor Quaice or the others?
LAFORGE: There are others missing?
CRUSHER: Yes, and they weren't anywhere near Engineering.
WESLEY: It doesn't make sense.
PICARD: I doubt the warp bubble could alter computer records, or erase memories. Keep at it, Ensign, Mister La Forge. It's our only working theory for now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Has something else happened?
CRUSHER: Sickbay is totally empty. Apparently I no longer have any staff.
RIKER: And that surprises you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Surprises me? I'll say it surprises me. There should be at least four members of my staff on duty at all times.
DATA: I am afraid ship's records do not concur. Doctor.
CRUSHER: What are you talking about?
DATA: You do not have a staff.
CRUSHER: You're telling me I'm the sole medical officer on a ship with over a thousand people on board?
DATA: Excuse me, Doctor, but the entire ship's complement is two hundred and thirty.
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: Doctor, may I see you in my Ready room?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Would you care for something? So, Beverly. Tea, Earl Gray, hot. You're saying this ship has lost nearly eight hundred of its personnel?
CRUSHER: I know how it sounds.
PICARD: None of the scans show any anomalies. No signs of an intruder. Wesley's experiment clearly did not have the scope to affect an entire starship.
CRUSHER: Captain, the Enterprise is in serious danger. You must believe me.
PICARD: I have no choice but to believe you. The safety of my entire crew is at stake, but I must be sure.
CRUSHER: That I haven't lost my mind? I just examined myself. And being the only doctor on board, I had to do it myself. There were no signs of dysfunction. Yes, there was an increased elevation of adrenalin, but I think is understandable.
PICARD: Did you find anything that might suggest why you're apparently the only one among us unaffected by this, this phenomenon?
CRUSHER: No. I'll talk to Troi.
PICARD: It wouldn't do any harm.
CRUSHER: Captain, please. Return this ship to Starbase one three three for a full diagnostic. I realize you have my word only to convince you.
PICARD: Mister Riker?
RIKER (voiceover): Captain?
PICARD: Set a course for a return to Starbase one three three immediately.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Your word has always been good enough for me.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I've had a team in Sickbay for two hours. We've run the mass spectrometer on all particulates. We've scanned the EM spectrum in case there was a wave guide somehow leaking radiation. We've even crawled in the life support ductwork. Captain, I don't know what this vortex was that Doctor Crusher saw.
CRUSHER: I didn't just see it. I felt it. I barely escaped from it.
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing there now. And no sign there ever was.
PICARD: Is there any possible connection with Mister Crusher's experiment? Could this warp bubble be floating around the ship perhaps?
LAFORGE: No, sir. That bubble was definitely contained in Engineering. There's no way it could possibly have affected anything up on deck twelve.
DATA: Sir, I have completed level one computer diagnostics. There are no malfunctions.
RIKER: Any other ships respond to our queries, Data?
DATA: The Wellington is the only Federation vessel in this sector. It reports normal operations. A Ferengi ship within communications range also reports nothing unusual.
CRUSHER: Are all members of the crew accounted for?
DATA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: How many are there?
DATA: There are one hundred and fourteen people on the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: What?
DATA: That is the exact number there should be.
CRUSHER: There are now over nine hundred missing. Deck after deck of this ship is deserted now. How do you account for all the empty rooms? If there are supposed to be only a hundred and fourteen people on board, why all the extra space?
DATA: Transportation of colonists, diplomatic missions, emergency evacuations.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. Have security confine all nonessential personnel to their quarters. Computer, go to Red Alert.
CRUSHER: I'd like Lieutenant Worf to program onboard sensors to monitor all personnel. If we can catch the exact moment someone disappears
PICARD: I'm sorry, whom did you say?
CRUSHER: Worf. Chief of Security. The big guy who never smiles? The Klingon!

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Deanna. I need you to tell me if I've gone completely mad.
TROI: If you can ask the question, I'd say no.
CRUSHER: Don't evade the question.
TROI: Then ask me one I can answer.
CRUSHER: Deanna, I've delivered babies that no longer exist. No one else remembers them. Yet I can close my eyes, and see their faces as clearly as I see yours now. What if it's not some huge conspiracy? What if it is just me?
TROI: What if it is just you?
CRUSHER: Then I've delayed a mission, frightened a lot of people including myself.
TROI: So what? You've acted in the best interest of your ship and crew. What more could you ask of yourself? If it turns out to be a mistake, then we'll be a little late arriving at Durenia Four. That's all.
CRUSHER: It's not a mistake. I wish it were.
TROI: When we reach Starbase, I'll order a complete workup, both physical and psychological.
CRUSHER: If we reach Starbase. Wesley. Where's Wesley?

[Engineering]
CRUSHER: Wesley?
WESLEY: Mom? Are you all right?
CRUSHER: No. We may have very little time left. You don't believe me.
WESLEY: Look, Mom, I don't know.
CRUSHER: I don't have time to convince you. Hundreds of people are missing and your experiment is the only possible explanation we have that we can work on right now.
WESLEY: Well, there it is. I don't know what else to do with it.
CRUSHER: Then find someone who does, someone who knows something about warp bubbles.
WESLEY: I've already talked to Kosinski on subspace, and he can't explain it either. And this is based on his equations. There is someone who may be able to help, but I can't reach him.
CRUSHER: Who?
WESLEY: He was Kosinski's assistant. He was an alien from Tau Alpha C. He said he was some kind of Traveler. Somehow he combined warp technology and the energy from his own thoughts.
CRUSHER: Yes, I remember. Wesley, do you think it's possible that you've accidentally recreated something that he did? Something that could alter reality?
WESLEY: I don't see how. He's the only one who could explain it to us. I sent a message to Tau Alpha C, but it's so far away, it could take days to get there.
CRUSHER: Maybe the Captain can help us. We've got to find him. Come on.
WESLEY: I don't even know if he's still alive. He was very sick.
CRUSHER: Well, we can't stand around here doing nothing.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: It's a chance. We have to try to...
CRUSHER: Wesley.

[Engineering]
CRUSHER: Wesley?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: They're all gone? Riker, Troi, Data? Wait a minute, let me guess. You never heard of any of them.
PICARD: You know, Doctor, I have been more than fair. I have done everything I can to substantiate your, your perceptions of a
CRUSHER: Will Riker! Your First Officer. He's very good at playing poker, loves to cook, he listens to jazz music, plays the trombone.
PICARD: I cannot find any evidence of a Will Riker.
CRUSHER: Commander Data, the android who sits at Ops, dreams of being human, never gets the punch line of a joke.
PICARD: Doctor, we'll be arriving at Starbase one three three in a few hours.
CRUSHER: Deanna Troi, you ship's counselor, half Betazoid, loves chocolate. The arrival of her mother makes you shudder. O'Brien, Geordi, Worf, Wesley, my son. They all have been the living, breathing heart of this crew for over three years. They deserve more than to be shrugged off, brushed aside, just pinched out of existence like that. They all do. They deserve so much more.
PICARD: Beverly, perhaps it would be best if you were to confine yourself to Sickbay until we arrive.
CRUSHER: It's all perfectly logical to you, isn't it? The two of us roaming about the galaxy in the flagship of the Federation. No crew at all.
PICARD: We've never needed a crew before.
CRUSHER: I don't suppose you remember an alien from Tau Alpha C who was on board once? He called himself a Traveler. Jean-Luc, I don't know how, but you and I have got to find this Traveler, or another from his race. If anyone can help us
PICARD: I give you my word. When we arrive at the Starbase, I will make every effort to find him.
CRUSHER: It's not a delusion. It is not a dream. There is a physical, measurable phenomenon at work here. Perhaps you could help me to identify it.
PICARD: How?
CRUSHER: I'd like to use the ship's computer to monitor your life functions.
PICARD: Until I disappear.
CRUSHER: It will happen.
PICARD: All right. Computer, continuous scan, Captain Jean-Luc Picard, vital signs. Audible readout. Begin now.
COMPUTER: Body temperature thirty seven point two degrees,
CRUSHER: I promise you I will continue to do whatever I can to find out what's happening, and to bring you all back. I'm sorry I lost my temper. You do remember that?
PICARD: Vividly. But if I have forgotten my closest friends and comrades, as you say, I deserved every word.
CRUSHER: For quite some time I've been meaning to say something to you. I might not have another chance. Jean Luc, you and I
CRUSHER: I won't forget. I won't forget any of you.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Wesley, have you got it? What's happening?
WESLEY (voiceover): I'm losing it!

[Engineering]
WESLEY: The link isn't holding, Commander.
LAFORGE: I'll go to the secondary equations.
WESLEY: No. Look. I've lost it.
LAFORGE: Damn. I'm sorry, Wesley.
WESLEY: It's over. There's no way we'll get her back now.
TRAVELLER: It's not over, Wesley. There's still a way.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44162.5. Two attempts to retrieve Doctor Crusher have failed. And now, the Traveler, a mysterious visitor from our past, has reappeared.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Is she alive?
TRAVELLER: As long as she thinks she is alive, she is alive.
RIKER: What the hell does that mean?
TRAVELLER: Your species have very narrow perceptions of time and space and thought. When Beverly Crusher was caught in the static warp bubble, she created her own reality. Her thoughts at the precise moment she was trapped determined its shape and form.
TROI: Can you go in and get her back?
TRAVELLER: No, it is her reality. I cannot enter it any more than I can enter her thoughts.
WESLEY: But you said there's still a way.
TRAVELLER: I can help, but I can't do it myself. Wesley, there is a power within each of us that most people haven't begun to realize, but you have begun, or else I would not have known to come here now. Together we may be able to open a gateway for her. But she must choose to walk through it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Computer, we are going to apply precise diagnostic methodology. Once we've cataloged the symptoms, we will proceed to determine the illness, and find the cure. We will start with the assumption that I am not crazy. If I am, it won't matter one way or the other. Computer, read the entire crew roster for the Enterprise.
COMPUTER: Doctor Beverly Crusher.
CRUSHER: Have I always been the only member of the crew of the Starship Enterprise?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
CRUSHER: If this was a bad dream, would you tell me?
COMPUTER: That is not a valid question.
CRUSHER: Like hell it's not.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: What date did I report on board?
COMPUTER: Stardate 41154. Fourteen hundred hours, three minutes.
CRUSHER: That sounds about right. Computer, is there more than one USS Enterprise?
COMPUTER: This vessel is the fifth starship to bear the name USS Enterprise. It is currently the only one in service.
CRUSHER: What is the primary mission of the Starship Enterprise?
COMPUTER: To explore the galaxy.
CRUSHER: Do I have the necessary skills to complete that mission alone?
COMPUTER: Negative.
CRUSHER: Then why am I the only crew member? Aha, got you there.
COMPUTER: That information is not available.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Computer, are you familiar with the inhabitants of Tau Alpha C?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
CRUSHER: Are any presently located on any starbase or vessel within communication distance?
COMPUTER: Negative.
CRUSHER: Estimated time to Tau Alpha C at warp nine point five.
COMPUTER: One hundred twenty three days.
CRUSHER: Lay in a new course for Tau Alpha C. And send a subspace message advising them of our arrival.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER: Engage. Computer, did you change course?
COMPUTER: State new destination or coordinates.
CRUSHER: I stated it, damn it. Tau Alpha C.
COMPUTER: There is no Tau Alpha C listed on current star maps.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44162.8. At the direction of the Traveler, the Enterprise is returning to Starbase one three three and the precise position where the subspace bubble was formed.

[Engineering]
TRAVELLER: Our goal will be to create a stable gateway between our reality and your mother's reality.
WESLEY: We've tried. We can't stabilize the link.
TRAVELLER: Of course not. The equations are only the first step. We will be going beyond mathematics.
WESLEY: Just tell me what I have to do.
TRAVELLER: Begin by letting go of your guilt, Wesley.
WESLEY: It's my fault. I shouldn't have tried
TRAVELLER: Focus on the present. You will have to be here completely to help her back. You must open yourself to time and space and the intricate threads that bind them. Begin entering your warp field equations. Now close your eyes. See past the numbers. Trust yourself.
WESLEY: I can't. I can't do it.
TRAVELLER: When the time comes, you will, Wesley. You will.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Starbase one three three, this is the Enterprise. Starbase one three three, this is the Enterprise. Please acknowledge. Viewscreen on.
CRUSHER: It's not just people. Everything is disappearing! Computer, what is that mist I'm seeing?
COMPUTER: Sensors indicate it to be a mass energy field seven hundred and five meters in diameter.
CRUSHER: It surrounds the ship?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
CRUSHER: If there's nothing wrong with me, maybe there's something wrong with the universe. Computer, what is beyond the mass energy field?
COMPUTER: Sensors cannot penetrate the field.
CRUSHER: Here's a question you shouldn't be able to answer. What is the nature of the universe?
COMPUTER: The universe is a spheroid region seven hundred and five meters in diameter.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, approaching Starbase one three three.
PICARD: Slow to ten meters per second.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare for precision

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Station keeping.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged. Readying thrusters.
TRAVELLER: There. There it is. We're moving into phase now. There's your warp bubble, Wesley.
WESLEY: What? What's wrong.
TRAVELLER: It is collapsing.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Computer, give me a graphic representation of the universe.
CRUSHER: I've seen this before. Wesley's experiment! The bubble. Of course. But that would mean that I'm the one trapped in the bubble.
CRUSHER: Computer, what's happening?
COMPUTER: Explosive decompression decks five through fourteen. Sealing off forward sections.
CRUSHER: Cause?
COMPUTER: A flaw in the ship's design.
CRUSHER: Show me. Analysis.
COMPUTER: No ship's structures exist forward of bulkhead three four two.
CRUSHER: Superimpose previous image over this one, same scale, and continue to monitor.
CRUSHER: It's collapsing!
COMPUTER: Hull integrity now compromised on decks three through fifteen.
CRUSHER: Computer, how long can life support be maintained?
COMPUTER: Four minutes, seventeen seconds.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we have re-established exact coordinates and attitude.
RIKER: Geordi, we're in position. Your status?
LAFORGE (voiceover): The warp bubble is contracting at a rate of

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Fifteen meters per second. We're going to lose it in about four minutes.
TRAVELLER: It is time, Wesley.
LAFORGE: We're ready, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Proceed.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'll be in Engineering.

[Engineering]
TRAVELLER: Let it go, Wesley. Let go of the anticipation, the expectations, the demands upon yourself. Let it all go. Leave it behind. Yes. The ability is there inside of you. You do not need to look for it.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Three minutes thirty seconds to life support failure.
CRUSHER: The Traveler used his thoughts to alter warp fields. Thoughts became reality. Now I'm in a warp field. Could my thoughts have changed this reality? Come on, Beverly! What's the next step? What was I thinking at the moment Wesley's bubble formed? Dalen Quaice. He said all the people he'd known were gone. I thought of Jack, I went to see Wesley, the flash in Engineering. That's when it started. That's when I started losing everybody. My thoughts created this universe. Can they get me out of it again?
COMPUTER: That information is not available.
CRUSHER: I'm not talking to you. Click my heels together three times and I'm back in Kansas. Can it be that simple?
COMPUTER: Two minutes, thirty seconds to life support failure.
CRUSHER: Computer, hypothetical situation. A person is trapped inside of a static warp bubble. Determine a means of escape.
COMPUTER: Escape would theoretically depend on establishing a stable threshold between the warp field and the outer environment.
CRUSHER: Describe this threshold.
COMPUTER: Negative. There are no known practical applications of this theory.
CRUSHER: Extrapolate from theoretical database. How would it manifest itself?
COMPUTER: A dynamic atmospheric disturbance of great intensity.
CRUSHER: Disturbance? The vortex. They must have been trying to reach me! But how do I find it? Wesley, where do I go? Help me.
CRUSHER: Stable threshold. They've been trying to create a stable threshold. Where are they trying to do it? Where did they do it the first time? Engineering!
COMPUTER: One minute, thirty seconds to life support failure.

[Turbolift]
CRUSHER: Engineering.
COMPUTER: Failure in turboshaft four. Unable to proceed to main Engineering.
CRUSHER: Just take me anywhere on deck thirty six!

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're losing the bubble!
PICARD: Beverly!
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. You. Do I have you to thank for getting me back?
TRAVELLER: No.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, if I might ask, how many people are there on board?
PICARD: One thousand and fourteen, including your guest, Doctor Quaice.
LAFORGE: Is there something wrong with that count, Doctor?
CRUSHER: No. That's the exact number there should be.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: One.
RIKER: Are you trying to fill another inside straight, Worf? Don't say I didn't warn you.
WORF: Pah!
TROI: I fold.
DATA: I will raise you three.
RIKER: No cards? The best poker face I've ever seen. Dealer takes two. Your three and ten more.
DATA: I will see your ten, and raise you twenty.
RIKER: Data, Have you got a flush or a full house?
DATA: It will cost you twenty to make that determination, sir.
RIKER: Dealer folds.
TROI: You two have successfully divided the evening between you.
WORF: I suspect conspiracy. Far be it for me to accuse my superior officers.
RIKER: You're getting harder and harder to bluff, Data. You've learned this game very well.
DATA: Yes sir, I believe I have.
RIKER: Tell you what. I'll bet that I can find any card that you hide in this deck. And furthermore, I will make you help me find it.
TROI: Careful, Data.
DATA: Your guidance is much valued, Counselor. However.
RIKER: Pick a card. Don't let me see it. Now lose it in the deck. Cut the deck into two even piles.
RIKER: Okay. Once more time. And again. How many cards?
DATA: Eleven.
RIKER: Take five. Throw them away.
RIKER: Pick three more. Okay, now pick one of those. Is that your card?
TROI: Incredible.
DATA: Not at all, Counselor. You surreptitiously placed the edge of your left thumb against the card. When you divided the deck to reshuffle, you kept that card on top. You thus were able to have me either save or discard, depending on the location of the card, which you followed at each step until we were left with just one. The card I originally chose. Sir, I believe under the circumstances
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD (voiceover): We've received a distress call. We're changing course to intercept.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44215.2. The Enterprise has bypassed its scheduled archeological survey of Camus Two in response to a distress call from the Federation freighter Arcos, which has assumed an emergency orbit around Turkana Four, birthplace of our late comrade, Tasha Yar.

[Bridge]
DATA: We will be entering the Turkana system in eleven minutes, Captain.
PICARD: Engine status.
DATA: Stable. But we have maintained warp factor nine for longer than is recommended, sir.
WORF: Subspace message from the Arcos. Their transmitter is failing, sir. Audio only.
PICARD: Let's hear it.
TAN TSU (voiceover): Enterprise, this is Tan Tsu, Arcos engineer. Estimate five minutes till warp drive containment breach. Make that three minutes. Thanks for trying, Enterprise.
PICARD: Ensign, warp nine point three. How much time?
DATA: Seven minutes and fifteen seconds will bring us within transporter range, Captain.
PICARD: Nine point six.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister O'Brien, prepare to lock onto the two crewmen.
O'BRIEN: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are now entering the Turkana system, sir.
PICARD: Slow to impulse.
DATA: Visual contact.
RIKER: Get them out of there, O'Brien.
RIKER: Status, O'Brien?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): There's nothing to lock onto, Commander.
DATA: I am reading an ion trail characteristic of a freighter escape pod.
WORF: Unable to establish contact.
PICARD: It could have been damaged by the explosion. They may have been able to maintain orbit.
RIKER: Let's hope they stay clear of the colony.
DATA: That is exactly where the ion trail is leading, Commander.
PICARD: Hail the colony.
WORF: I've been trying to, Captain. No response.
RIKER: They haven't been able to maintain reliable communications since their government fell apart.
DATA: The last Federation vessel to make contact was the Potemkin, six years ago. They were warned that anyone transporting down to the colony would be killed.
PICARD: Number One, ready an away team.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit above Turkana Four, an Earth colony that severed relations with the Federation nearly fifteen years ago. I am concerned about sending an away team, but if we are to discover the fate of the two missing Federation crewmen, I see no alternative.

[Transporter room]
DATA: The surface settlement appears to be all but destroyed. Sensors show that the colonists now live in structures that extend nearly three kilometers beneath the city.
RIKER: Have you located the escape pod's landing point, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. Three hundred meters beyond the colony perimeter.
WORF: Sir, we can anticipate a violent response to our presence. Perhaps the Doctor should wait here until we signal.
CRUSHER: I appreciate your concern. I think it's exaggerated.
WORF: The colony is completely lawless. Lieutenant Yar spoke of rape gangs and
CRUSHER: Mister Worf, I can handle myself.
RIKER: She's coming. The Arcos crewmen may require immediate medical assistance. Phasers on maximum stun. Energize.

[Tunnel]
DATA: The dispersion trail continues in this direction. The concentration gradient definitely increases along this vector. The escape pod was apparently moved into the tunnels ahead of us.
RIKER: Hardly the response we expected. PASSER-
PASSER-BY: Pardon me.
CRUSHER: Maybe things have changed here.
MAN: Freeze! Identify yourselves.
RIKER: We're from the Federation Starship Enterprise. We tracked two of our crewmen to this area. Do you know anything about them?
MAN: Possibly.
RIKER: What do you mean?
MAN: They found us.
WORF: Proximity detectors. I've seen them used on Manu Three.
MAN: Follow me.

[Coalition headquarters]
HAYNE: The Alliance is holding your men hostage, Commander Riker, not us. You can expect a ransom demand.
RIKER: The Alliance?
HAYNE: Our good friends. Our good friends are going to be upset when they realize we took their last crate of Telluridan synth-ale.
RIKER: Maybe I should take this to the authorities.
HAYNE: We are the authorities. The Coalition, our cadre, runs this side of the city. The Alliance controls the other side. Take your choice.
RIKER: Are you offering to help us?
HAYNE: In return for some consideration. Phasers are in short supply down here. A starship isn't going to miss a few.
WORF: That is no better than a ransom demand.
HAYNE: No matter what you give the Alliance, they'll eventually kill your crewmen anyway. With our help, at least there's a chance you'll get your men back alive. All I'm asking for is help in maintaining our defense. We are trying to keep the peace.
RIKER: Everything we've seen would indicate otherwise.
HAYNE: A prank. The proximity implants prevent either side from doing any serious damage. They warn us when an enemy is approaching.
WORF: Then why do you need more phasers?
HAYNE: The Alliance just discovered a large cache of weapons. I'm just trying to make things even, to preserve the peace.
CRUSHER: You keep using the word peace. We've heard a different version of life on Turkana Four.
HAYNE: Ancient history. Where did you hear that?
DATA: A former crewman was born here.
HAYNE: Where's he now?
DATA: She was killed in the line of duty.
HAYNE: That's as good a way to die as any. As I said, ancient history. This is now, and your men are in trouble.
RIKER: We'll return to the Enterprise and consider your proposal.
HAYNE: A gift for your Captain.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Energize.
HAYNE: I want everything there is to know about the starship Enterprise.

[Bridge]
RIKER: According to Hayne, the Coalition and the Alliance raid each other for supplies, much of it non-essential.
PICARD: Why?
WORF: A battle exercise.
RIKER: Their defenses apparently prevent deep strikes into each other's territory. Minor skirmishes are all that's left.
PICARD: Coalition. Alliance. It all sounds so reasonable, but what you've described is the behavior of urban street thugs. We certainly won't trade weapons for crewmen. How do you suggest we deal with them?
RIKER: We have to tell them something.
WORF: No promises, no denials.
PICARD: For now, Hayne's Coalition is our only safe access to the colony. We'll keep the door open, see where it leads us.
WORF: Captain. Transmission coming in from Turkana Four, on a secure channel.
PICARD: On screen.
HAYNE (screen): Hello, Enterprise. Commander Riker, would you introduce me to your Captain?
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
HAYNE (screen): I have someone here you might like to meet. This is Ishara. Ishara Yar.
ISHARA (screen): Tasha was my sister.
HAYNE (screen): There's an old saying, Captain. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. I've decided it's in my best interest to help you get your crewmen back.
PICARD: With nothing from us in return?
HAYNE (screen): You could be forced into paying my adversary a ransom in weapons. I'll do anything I can to avoid that possibility.
PICARD: What do you propose?
HAYNE (screen): Ishara will be our liaison.
ISHARA (screen): I know Alliance territory. I can help you with a rescue plan.
PICARD: One moment.
WORF: Mute.
PICARD: Reactions?
WORF: I do not trust him.
RIKER: She could be a fake. We told him a member of our crew was from the colony.
CRUSHER: All Hayne had to do was search through their database had on Starfleet to come up with Tasha's name.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: He's deceiving us, and he's clearly hoping to manipulate us. As for the identity of the young woman, I can't really tell.
PICARD: Neverthe less, this is an option we cannot neglect. We'll continue on other fronts as they present themselves. For now, let's see what she has to say.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: I have decided to accept your proposal.
HAYNE (screen): Thank you. Good luck.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Ishara. I am Commander Data.
ISHARA: You're not human.
DATA: I am an android.
ISHARA: Built for fighting?
DATA: On what do you base that assumption?
ISHARA: A cybernetic device serving on a starship.
DATA: The Enterprise is not a ship of war. It is a ship of exploration.
ISHARA: The first thing to do is help you map the colony. This is a general grid of the tunnel system. I can fill in the specific details from memory.
DATA: My orders are to escort you to the Observation Lounge. Please come with me.

[Corridor]
DATA: Your sister never spoke of you.
ISHARA: That's not surprising.
DATA: It is surprising to me. Tasha and I spent much time together. We had a considerable number of conversations.
ISHARA: Did she talk at all about the colony?
DATA: Only to say that she was lucky to have escaped.
ISHARA: It wasn't luck. It was cowardice.
DATA: Cowardice is a term that I have never heard applied to Tasha.
ISHARA: Is something wrong?
DATA: No. It is just that for a moment, the expression on your face reminded me of her.
ISHARA: It's been fifteen years. I don't even remember what she looked like.

[Observation lounge]
ISHARA: You don't believe I'm Tasha's sister.
PICARD: We have considered the possibility.
ISHARA: I'm not surprised. You can sample my DNA if you like.
CRUSHER: Yes, I will.
PICARD: Please, sit down.
ISHARA: Thank you.
PICARD: Perhaps it would help if you gave us some idea of what we're dealing with on Turkana Four. The last information describes a colony in almost complete disarray.
ISHARA: It started falling apart almost thirty years ago. There were dozens of factions. They fought until the city above ground was in ruins.
RIKER: The Coalition and the Alliance are all that's left?
ISHARA: We were the two strongest factions. When the government couldn't stop the violence, they gave us police powers. The proximity detectors were originally designed by the government to keep us under control.
PICARD: Apparently, that part of the plan didn't work very well.
ISHARA: No. After a few months, we didn't need the government any more.
LAFORGE: Tasha left you in the middle of all that?
ISHARA: She didn't abandon me, if that's what you mean. Tasha asked me to go with her, but I had already joined the Coalition. They were my family. Captain, we don't have a lot of time. Maybe we should get started.
WORF (voiceover): Incoming transmission from the colony, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
TAN TSU (screen): Enterprise, I'm being held by Turkana Four Alliance. I've been instructed to say that you have twenty hours to make reparations for Federation intrusion into this colony, or my pilot and I will be killed.
CRUSHER: Ask them if we can at least send some medical
ISHARA: Take that threat seriously, Captain. They'll torture them and then they'll kill them. My cadre has never recovered a hostage alive from the Alliance. Your crewmen could be held in any number of places. The Alliance has two main headquarters and thirteen ancillary bases of operation. All underground, all heavily guarded.
LAFORGE: Captain, if I could get to the myographic scanner.
ISHARA: What's that?
DATA: A sensing device from the escape pod. It monitors the bioelectric signatures of the crew, in the event they get separated from the pod.
LAFORGE: I could install a booster on the device that would relay its signals to the Enterprise. Then we could track the men from up here.
PICARD: Unfortunately, we don't know where the escape pod is.
ISHARA: Level three C, section five four seven. We have our sources.

[Engineering]
ISHARA: Access tunnels are here and here.
RIKER: We could transfer the away team right into this intersection.
ISHARA: Don't underestimate them, Commander. They'll be ready for that. I've seen them use this kind of strategy before. I know it looks isolated and easily accessible, but my guess is they have hundreds of men on the levels above and below just waiting for you to make your move.
WORF: We will need a diversion.
LAFORGE: Transport a couple of photon grenades into the adjoining chamber. At minimum intensity it wouldn't kill anybody, but it would shake them up a bit.
RIKER: That won't give us enough time. We need to occupy them long enough for you to install the relay.
ISHARA: Transport me into this corridor. My magnetic implant will set off the defense alarms. They'll think it's a raid by the Coalition.
RIKER: Too dangerous. We've seen what those tunnels look like. You could easily be cut off from the rest of us. Worf, if we
ISHARA: Commander Riker. I was ordered to assist you in any way possible. That doesn't mean as long as it's safe or convenient. If you had the time, we could come up with another plan, but you don't. Right now, I'm your best option.
DATA: She would have to be armed, sir.
RIKER: I'd like to discuss this with the Captain. Take Ishara down to see Doctor Crusher.

[Sickbay]
ISHARA: You have Tasha's DNA on file?
CRUSHER: The ship's computer does. There's always some differentiation between sonomic chromosomes, but not enough to affect results. It should take me a few hours to run the sonomic comparison.
ISHARA: That wasn't too bad. So, all that's left of my sister is a file in a computer.
DATA: Tasha exists in our memories as well.
ISHARA: How did she die?
DATA: Lieutenant Yar was killed on Vagra Two by a malevolent entity.
ISHARA: In battle?
DATA: No. She was killed as a demonstration of the creature's power, without provocation.
ISHARA: That's not how I intend to die.
RIKER: The Captain approves. You're with us.

[Level 3C, 547]
RIKER: Enterprise, we're in position.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister O'Brien, energize.
O'BRIEN: Aye, Captain.

[Level 3C, 547]
GUARD: They're at level two.
GIRL: Tunnel sixteen.
GUARD: Come on.
WOMAN: Josh, you're with us.
GUARD: Spread out.

[Tunnel]
GUARD: Let's check five.
GUARD 2: Yes, sir.
GUARD (voiceover): Check on three.
WOMAN (voiceover): Checking.
WOMAN: Somebody's here.
GUARD: Watch your backs.
GIRL: I'm right behind you.
WOMAN (voiceover): This way.
GUARD (voiceover): Go, go.

[Level 3C, 547]
LAFORGE: Damn!
RIKER: Geordi, what is taking so long?
LAFORGE: There's a lot of damage here. The myographic scanner is operational, but the power source keeps fluctuating.
RIKER: Can you fix it?
LAFORGE: I can probably run a shunt from the convertor.
RIKER: How long will that take?
LAFORGE: Ten minutes?
RIKER: Do it. O'Brien, lock onto Ishara and get her out of here!

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: There's a transformer substation directly above the chamber she just entered. It's masking her signal.

[Level 3C, 547]
RIKER: Stand by. Stay here and cover La Forge.
WORF: Commander!
RIKER: That's an order. Return to the ship as soon as you're finished. I'll signal for transport as soon as I can.

[Tunnel]
RIKER: Get us out of here.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Energizing.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: How is she?
RIKER: A couple of cracked ribs. She'll be all right.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher just called me with the results of the DNA comparison. Ishara is Tasha's sister.
RIKER: After what she did for us down there, that doesn't surprise me one bit.
PICARD: You took some unnecessary personal risks, Number One.
RIKER: We lost Tasha on an away team under my command. The thought of the same thing happening to her sister
PICARD: That's an emotional response, Will. We can't afford it.
RIKER: Understood, Captain.
PICARD: Commander. Well done.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've fused the bone tissue along both fractures. The muscles around the area will be weak for a day or two, but you shouldn't feel any pain.
ISHARA: Thank you, Doctor.
PICARD: Ishara, I wanted to thank you personally for what you did for us down on the colony. It was more than I expected.
ISHARA: I don't run away when things get tough, like some people. Like my sister did.
PICARD: Let me tell you about your sister. The first time I saw Tasha Yar, she was making her way through a Carnelian mine field to reach a wounded colonist. Her ship had responded to their distress call, as had mine. When it was all over, I requested that she be assigned to the Enterprise. Her ship's captain owed me a favor. In the months that followed, she never once failed to put the safety of the crew before her own, and she died doing the same. I'm sorry you never knew the woman Tasha became. I think you would have been proud of her. And she of you.

[Bridge]
DATA: What is this structure?
ISHARA: A main fusion source. There's one next to each of the Alliance headquarters. It powers all of their defensive systems. This chamber is accessed from the level below. Entry points are evenly spaced along this wall every twenty five meters. Data, where was Tasha's post?
DATA: Tactical station. Where Lieutenant Worf is now.
ISHARA: Did Tasha have many friends here?
DATA: Yes. She was especially close to Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf. And to myself.
ISHARA: Are you able to have friends?
DATA: Yes.
ISHARA: But you don't have feelings, do you?
DATA: Not as such. However, even among humans, friendship is sometimes less an emotional response and more a sense of familiarity.
ISHARA: So you can become used to someone?
DATA: Exactly. As I experience certain sensory input patterns, my mental pathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually are anticipated, and even missed when absent.
ISHARA: Like my sister.
DATA: Yes, like your sister.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: They've been moved so far underground it's been difficult to pinpoint their signatures. But the men are here, next to one of the Alliance headquarters. That's about two kilometers of solid granite above their heads.
RIKER: So much for the transporter.
LAFORGE: Not necessarily. We could use the ship's phasers to cut a shaft through the bedrock to this storage tunnel here. With a clear path through the rock, we'd be able to transport through the tunnel. That would put us close enough to get to the crewmen. But I'll need two hours to refit the ship's phasers for drilling.
RIKER: It's a real maze down there.
ISHARA: I spent a lot of time in that section before they took it over. There are blind tunnels and dead ends that don't even show up on this map.
WORF: We do not have much choice.
ISHARA: If it wasn't for my implant setting off all the alarms, I could guide you to your men.
DATA: We could remove the implant.
ISHARA: No, it has a micro explosive inside that detonates on contact with air. When you join a cadre, you join for life.
DATA: A small force field containing xenon or another inert gas could be placed over the incision site. The explosive could possibly be disarmed at the same time it is removed.
RIKER: This is something you're going to have to decide for yourself, Ishara. Think about it while we're waiting for Geordi.

[Ten Forward]
ISHARA: Our parents were killed in some crossfire just after I was born. Some people took care of us for a few months, then one day we came home and they were gone. So Tasha took care of me, and when I was old enough I joined the Coalition.
DATA: And Tasha did not?
ISHARA: My sister hated the cadres. She blamed them for our parents death. For everything. She refused to join, and she left as soon as she had the chance. I always thought she was weak for doing that, but maybe I was wrong. Maybe, maybe she made the right choice. To work together for something besides killing, to be close to someone without having to protect your back. Very appealing. You're the perfect example. I hardly even know you, Data, but already I completely trust you. I even consider you a friend.
DATA: Thank you. I would like to consider you my friend as well.
ISHARA: If I had known about this place fifteen years ago, things might've been different. Maybe it's not too late.

[Ready room]
DATA: Ishara is willing to have the implant removed, sir.
PICARD: Good. Inform Doctor Crusher.
DATA: She also expressed a desire to leave the colony. She hopes to apply to the Academy and eventually join Starfleet.
PICARD: Does she understand the magnitude of these decisions?
DATA: She claims to, Captain.
TROI: I get a sense of ambiguity from her. Her loyalties are clearly divided, Captain.
PICARD: Are you suggesting we deny her an escape from this environment?
TROI: No, I'm just not sure she wants to escape. It's the only way of life she's ever known.
PICARD: Ultimately, it is her decision to make, not ours. Mister Data, proceed with the mission as planned.
TROI: Data?
DATA: Yes, Counselor?
TROI: You seem so strong in your support. I'm curious.
DATA: We must free the crewmen. She appears to be our best hope of doing so. In addition, I have become used to her.

[Bridge]
DATA: Ishara.
ISHARA: Thank you, Data.
DATA: You are welcome. Doctor Crusher is expecting you in Sickbay.
ISHARA: It's all so different.
DATA: To what are you referring?
ISHARA: On the colony, nobody does anything for anyone else unless they have something to gain from it.
DATA: But I do have something to gain from it. Your continued presence on this ship. Is something wrong?
ISHARA: I have to tell Hayne and the others. I owe it to them. Guess I ought to get it over with.
DATA: If you desire privacy, you may use the Observation lounge.
ISHARA: That would probably make things a little easier.

[Observation lounge]
HAYNE (screen): Report.
ISHARA: It's working.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44225.3. Doctor Crusher has successfully removed Ishara's magnetic implant, enabling the young woman to guide our rescue attempt. Without my intending it, she has virtually become an active member of the crew.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Cardiovascular functions normal. Metabolism, immunity, all other vital signs excellent. How do you feel?
ISHARA: Better than I've ever felt. Thanks for staying with me.
CRUSHER: You might want to keep this. It's been with you a long time.
ISHARA: You keep it, Data, so you won't forget me.
DATA: Have you reconsidered your decision to stay with us?
ISHARA: No. Just in case something goes wrong down there.

[Corridor]
WORF: I understand you wish to join Starfleet.
ISHARA: Some day. If I'm lucky.
WORF: On that day, it is we who will be lucky.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Riker. Is your away team ready?
RIKER: Waiting for your signal, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Phasers in alignment and ready to fire.
PICARD: How far must we penetrate to safely allow transporter function?
LAFORGE: One point six kilometers.
PICARD: Fire phasers.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: One point three kilometers. One point four. One point five kilometers. One point six kilometers. Deep enough for transport, sir.
PICARD: Cease fire. Mister O'Brien, energize.

[Tunnel]
ISHARA: This way.
WORF: Caution is indicated.
ISHARA: We're near the heart of the Alliance. Security is minimal here. They aren't expecting anybody this far in.
RIKER: Ishara?
ISHARA: Follow me.
WORF: Are you certain?
ISHARA: No, I'm not. I'm trying to remember. I was here, but it was a long time ago. There have been changes. It's through here.
ISHARA: There. Your men are behind that door.

[Chamber]
RIKER: Hold out your hands.
RIKER: Let's get moving.

[Tunnel]
RIKER: Where is she?
WORF: Commander, look.
RIKER: What the hell happened here?
WORF: She probably tried to draw their fire. It triggered the alarm.
RIKER: Worf, get these men back to the Enterprise.
WORF: Come on.
RIKER: Data, you're with me.

[Power generator room]
DATA: Ishara. What are you doing? The fusion generator is overloading. You are attempting to disable the defense system. For what reason? We have rescued the crewmen.
ISHARA: I don't care about your crewmen. We have three thousand troops waiting at the perimeter. When the defenses go down, they'll come in. The Alliance will fall.
DATA: The Federation will be responsible for the resulting deaths. I cannot allow that.
ISHARA: You don't have a choice.
DATA: That is not so.
ISHARA: I don't want to kill you, Data. But I will.
DATA: We will both be destroyed by the explosion.
ISHARA: The Coalition's been all I've had for fifteen years. They've given me a life. I don't mind dying for them. But you won't have to if you just get out of here now.
DATA: Was this your intention from the beginning?
ISHARA: We never could have gotten this deep into Alliance territory without your help.
DATA: Our help was not deliberate. You deceived us.
ISHARA: What's the difference? You got what you came for. Why do you care about what we do?
DATA: Your friendship with me was part of the deception, was it not? You misled me at each step, and yet I was completely unaware.
ISHARA: That doesn't matter now! None of it does! Now get out of here, Data, please. Now!
DATA: My duty requires me to intercede.
RIKER: Ishara!
RIKER: What was she doing?
DATA: Disabling the detection system so her forces could attack.
RIKER: Set to kill.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Your strategy failed.
HAYNE (screen): It was a calculated risk. You gave us an opportunity we couldn't ignore. Ishara, are you hurt?
ISHARA: No.
HAYNE (screen): I want her returned immediately.
RIKER: You're not in a position to dictate to anybody. She attacked two Federation officers.
HAYNE (screen): You have no jurisdiction here!
RIKER: Don't talk about legal rights. Your jurisdiction is based entirely on the threat of violence.
HAYNE (screen): You have your crewmen back. Isn't that enough?
RIKER: What do you know about
PICARD: Commander Data, escort Ishara to the transporter room.
HAYNE (screen): Thank you, Captain. I'm just trying to preserve the peace.
PICARD: Close the channel.
RIKER: You're far more charitable than I would have been, Captain.
PICARD: I understand your feelings, Number One. I share them. But perhaps the fault lies in ourselves. We were so eager to accept her. Each of us, myself included, wanted to see something of Tasha in this woman. We saw more than what was there.

[Corridor]
ISHARA: You haven't said one word to me.
DATA: What do you wish to talk about?

[Transporter room]
ISHARA: I did what I had to do. I'm sorry if I hurt you in the process.
DATA: I am an android. It is not possible for me to be injured in that fashion.
O'BRIEN: Whenever you're ready.
ISHARA: You know, Data, I wasn't always lying to you. That time we spent talking, that was the closest thing to friendship I've ever had. If that means anything to you.
DATA: Energize.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in.
RIKER: Data, what's on your mind?
DATA: Recent events have left me puzzled, sir. It has been days since Ishara left, and yet my thoughts seem to dwell on her. Almost as if I were experiencing a feedback loop in my mnemonic network.
RIKER: I know what you mean.
DATA: It is curious that I was so easily misled.
RIKER: Make that we.
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Data, sit down.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: In all trust, there is the possibility of betrayal. I'm not sure you were prepared for that.
DATA: Were you prepared, sir?
RIKER: I don't think anybody ever is.
DATA: Then it is better not to trust.
RIKER: Without trust, there's no friendship, no closeness. None of the emotional bonds that make us what we are.
DATA: And yet you put yourself at risk.
RIKER: Every single time.
DATA: Perhaps I am fortunate, sir, to be spared the emotional consequences.
RIKER: Perhaps.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Data?
DATA: No changes, Commander. I can detect no abnormalities in the star's radiant energy.
PICARD: Prepare two class one probes.
DATA: Probes ready, Captain.
PICARD: Initiate launch sequence.
WORF: Captain, Klingon attack cruiser de-cloaking, bearing zero one zero mark two three seven.
PICARD: Belay that order, Mister Data.
RIKER: Did Starfleet mention any Klingon ships in this sector?
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: We are being hailed.
RIKER: All stop, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. All stop.
PICARD: Open a channel.
K'EHLEYR (screen): Hello, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Ambassador K'Ehleyr. This is an unexpected pleasure.
K'EHLEYR (screen): It's good to see you again, Captain. Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: How may we be of assistance, Ambassador?
K'EHLEYR (screen): There is an urgent matter we must discuss, Captain. Permission to come aboard?
PICARD: Granted.
PICARD: Lieutenant, please receive our guest.
WORF: Captain, I must request permission to send another officer.
PICARD: May I know your reason?
WORF: My dishonor among Klingons may offend Ambassador K'Ehleyr.
PICARD: Lieutenant, you are a member of this crew, and you will not go into hiding whenever a Klingon ship uncloaks.
WORF: I withdraw my request, sir.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: I just received coordinates, sir. Ready to transport two from the Klingon vessel.
WORF: Two?
CHIEF: Yes, sir.
WORF: Energize.

[Schoolroom]
K'EHLEYR: I hope he'll be all right. Alexander hasn't had much contact with other children.

[Turbolift]
K'EHLEYR: Not even a bite on the cheek for old time's sake?
WORF: Perhaps you're not aware of my dishonor. I have accepted discommendation.
K'EHLEYR: I've heard. So now what? I have to perform some ridiculous ritual to talk to you?
WORF: You may not respect our traditions, but I do.
K'EHLEYR: Sorry. I just thought you might want to talk. A few minutes ago, you looked like someone with a question to ask.
WORF: Must I ask the question?
K'EHLEYR: Yes, you must.
K'EHLEYR: What should I tell Alexander? That he has no father?

[Observation lounge]
K'EHLEYR: The Klingon Empire is at a critical juncture. We may be facing civil war.
RIKER: War over what?
K'EHLEYR: The usual excuses. Tradition, duty, honor.
DATA: The word excuses implies ulterior motives for a conflict.
K'EHLEYR: I won't bore you with the intricacies of Klingon politics. Basically, two factions are trying to seize power.
PICARD: Do you believe there is a threat to the Federation in this struggle?
K'EHLEYR: Klingon wars seldom remain confined to the Empire. Sooner or later they'll drag in the neighboring star systems, then the Tholians, the Ferengi. The Federation won't be able to stay out of it for long. This has been coming for some time. Only K'mpec, the head of the Council, has been able to maintain the peace.
TROI: Now something has changed that.
K'EHLEYR: Correct. K'mpec is dying. He is aboard the cruiser. He has come specifically to meet with you, Captain. Alone.

[K'mpec's quarters]
K'MPEC: It's about time you arrived, Picard. Sit.
K'MPEC: I need your help.
PICARD: If the Enterprise medical facility can do anything to help.
K'MPEC: Too late. For some months I have been poisoned with small doses of Veridium six. The wine. There is no cure.
PICARD: What do you want of me?
K'MPEC: After I die, you will act in my name to arbitrate the struggle for power.
PICARD: I will?
K'MPEC: No one on the Council can be trusted, and I have my reasons for wanting an outsider.
PICARD: K'mpec, you cannot possibly be serious. A Federation officer has no business in
K'MPEC: Nonsense. You are an accomplished mediator. This is no different than any other dispute requiring your services.
PICARD: On the contrary, I think this is very different. And I must respectfully decline.
K'MPEC: If you refuse the dying request of the Klingon Supreme Commander it will be a insult by the Federation to all Klingons. Besides, I've already sent the order to the leaders of the two opposing factions. They're on their way.
PICARD: You had no right to involve me without my permission.
K'MPEC: If I'd asked, you would have said no.
PICARD: This is not a case of simple mediation. You are asking me to choose the next leader of the Klingon Empire.
K'MPEC: No. By tradition, the two strongest challengers fight for the right of succession. As mediator, only you can designate those challengers.
PICARD: But you have just said there are only two challengers arriving. What is the point?
K'MPEC: I want you to discover which one of them has killed me. Gowron or Duras. Yes, Duras. I thought you would find that interesting.
PICARD: Interesting? You could say that, since he tried to have me killed, and conspired to strip Worf of his good name.
K'MPEC: And I approved. All for the glory of the Empire. That should be my epitaph. Find the assassin. The Klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor. He must not lead the Empire. Such a man would be capable of anything. Even war with the Federation.
PICARD: Very well. I accept.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. K'mpec, who ruled the Klingon Empire longer than anyone in history, is dead. We await the arrival of Duras and Gowron, rivals for the leadership of the High Council.

[Schoolroom]
WORF: There is no honor in attacking the weak.
ALEXANDER: I would have won.
WORF: No. You must earn victory.

[Corridor]
ALEXANDER: Where are the other Klingons?
WORF: There are no others on board.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: The Federation and the Klingon Empire were enemies for many years. No other Klingons have asked to serve in Starfleet.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: A warrior does not ask so many questions.
ALEXANDER: I don't want to be a warrior.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Hello! Well, you're back early.
ALEXANDER: He made me leave.
K'EHLEYR: Maybe you should go to your room and play.
K'EHLEYR: Is he under arrest?
WORF: He knows nothing of our ways!
K'EHLEYR: Our ways? You mean Klingon ways, don't you?
WORF: He is Klingon!
K'EHLEYR: He is also my son and I am half-human. He will find his own ways. Why the sudden concern? You won't even acknowledge that he's yours.
WORF: Why did you not tell me?
K'EHLEYR: What would you have done? That's right. You would have insisted that we take the oath, just as tradition would demand.
WORF: You should not have kept this from me.
K'EHLEYR: Well, now you know.
WORF: I cannot acknowledge my relationship to the boy. It would only harm him.
K'EHLEYR: Because you were dishonored?
WORF: As my son, he would also bear my disgrace, as would his children.
K'EHLEYR: Why did you accept discommendation from the High Council?
WORF: My father was accused of collaborating with the Romulans at Khitomer.
K'EHLEYR: I know. And I also know that you challenged it.
WORF: Yes at first. Ultimately I withdrew my challenge.
K'EHLEYR: But why, Worf? I can't believe you'd just give up. What really happened?
RIKER (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, Ambassador K'Ehleyr, report to the Bridge.
WORF: On our way, Commander.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Klingon vessels Vorn and Buruk holding stations at thirteen kilometers.
PICARD: Open a channel, Mister Data.
DATA: Channel is open, sir. Vorn responding to hail.
PICARD: On screen.
DURAS (screen): Let's get this over with, Picard.
PICARD: In good time, Duras.
DURAS (screen): Even in death, K'mpec makes foolish decisions. You should not be involved in this, human.
PICARD: The Sonchi ceremony will take place in one hour aboard K'mpec's ship.
DURAS (screen): One hour? What is the delay?
PICARD: There is no delay. It is the time I have chosen.
DURAS (screen): Exactly one hour, Picard. Do not be late.
DURAS (screen): Keep that pahtk away from the ceremony, Picard. He has no place on a Klingon ship.
PICARD: Picard out.
PICARD: Contact Gowron's ship. Tell him to meet us aboard K'mpec's vessel. Ambassador, meet me in Transporter room six in an hour. We will begin the ceremony a little late. Mister Worf.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Worf, the next few days will be difficult for you
WORF: You have made it clear that I am to perform my regular duties, sir.
PICARD: I want you to know that I am aware of your discomfort.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Ambassador K'Ehleyr will be preparing me for my role in the rite of succession.
WORF: Permission to speak freely, sir?
PICARD: Granted.
WORF: Duras must not be allowed to lead the council.
PICARD: He has a legal claim, Mister Worf. Your personal feelings toward him
WORF: It is not personal, sir. His father betrayed my people to the Romulans. Duras is a traitor.
PICARD: Klingon tradition may hold the son responsible for his father's sin. I cannot, Worf. Treason was his father's crime. Duras' crime was to lay that blame on your father. I will not forget that. But you should not forget that you chose to accept the consequences of that lie.
WORF: To preserve the Empire.
PICARD: The issue now is whether or not he killed K'mpec.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: He was murdered. Poisoned.
WORF: A Klingon would not use poison. His murder would have no honor.
PICARD: K'mpec believed that it was either Duras or Gowron.
WORF: Well, I know little of Gowron. Only that he is an outsider who has often challenged the Council. But Duras? I know him. His heart is not Klingon.

[K'mpec's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: That's Gowron.
PICARD: I hope this will be brief.
K'EHLEYR: It will be just long enough to prove that K'mpec is dead.
PICARD: Qab jIH nagil
GOWRON: Qab jIH nagil!
DURAS: Qab jiH nagil!
K'EHLEYR: Sonchi.
DURAS: Now, complete the Rite of Succession. It's obvious who the two challengers are.
PICARD: We will proceed according to the traditions and the precedents set down in Klingon law.
GOWRON: What do you know of Klingon law, human?
PICARD: We will reconvene on the Enterprise, wherein
DURAS: No! Finish it here, now!

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
WORF: I have not received your report on the explosion.
K'EHLEYR: Two Klingons killed. A few minor injuries. Were you concerned about me?
WORF: As Head of Security, it is my duty to be concerned.
K'EHLEYR: Is that it? Just official concern for my well being?
WORF: You know my feelings.
K'EHLEYR: Maybe I've forgotten.
WORF: You were right. I would have insisted we take the oath. But not just because of tradition.
K'EHLEYR: I thought about telling you. Wanted to tell you. But I wasn't ready. When I left, you said you'd never be complete without me. It took some time but, I came to realize I need you too. You're part of me, Worf.
WORF: jIH dok.
K'EHLEYR: maj dok.
WORF: No, I cannot allow you to suffer my humiliation.
K'EHLEYR: There would be no suffering I don't care what other Klingons think of you.
WORF: But what of the boy? He may want to live in the Empire someday. He would be an outcast. Another traitor from a family of traitors.
K'EHLEYR: Family of traitors. I don't believe that for a minute.
WORF: Respect my wishes in this matter. I cannot take the oath with you. Nor can I claim your son.
K'EHLEYR: If you cannot be his father, at least be his friend.

[Ready room]
PICARD: We haven't completed our analysis of the bomb debris. Doctor Crusher is still studying the remains of the two men killed in the explosion. We need more time.
K'EHLEYR: Duras and Gowron will be here in a few minutes. I don't think you can delay this meeting again.
PICARD: Is there some way of stretching out the formalities once they arrive?
K'EHLEYR: In the modern Rite of Succession, only a brief proclamation that two challengers have been chosen is necessary.
PICARD: You said modern rite. How was the ritual performed in the past?
K'EHLEYR: The old forms dictated that the challengers perform the ja'chuq. It's a long, involved ceremony where the challengers list the battles they've won, the prizes they've taken, the idea being to prove their worthiness to lead the Council.
PICARD: Can the old form still be used?
K'EHLEYR: It's up to you. You can use whatever form you want.
PICARD: Thank you.
K'EHLEYR: Captain, what do you know about Worf's discommendation? My interest is personal. I understand that you were there. You stood by him before the Council. I'd like to know what happened.
PICARD: I'm sorry, I can't discuss it.

[Observation lounge]
DURAS: The Council must have a leader now! Complete the rite so I can kill this ha'DIbah.
GOWRON: You will die slowly, Duras.
DURAS: You have already proved you don't have the courage to face me. Perhaps you should plant another bomb!
PICARD: mev yap! Sit down. We will begin the ja'chuq.
GOWRON: What?
DURAS: This woman has been giving you bad advice, Picard. The ja'chuq is obsolete.
PICARD: It is my choice to respect the ancient rituals. Each of you will have to prove your worthiness to lead the High Council.
GOWRON: That will take hours.
K'EHLEYR: Or days, depending on your cooperation.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: What is this?
WORF: A bat'leth. It belonged to my father. It has been in our family for ten generations.
ALEXANDER: Let me hold it.
WORF: No, no, no. Do not think of it as a weapon. Make it part of your hand. Part of your arm. Make it part of you.

[Observation lounge]
K'EHLEYR: The next meeting is in three hours.
GOWRON: I would speak with you alone, Ambassador.
K'EHLEYR: I'm honored.
GOWRON: Picard is prolonging the ja'chuq. Why?
K'EHLEYR: He has sufficient reason to proceed carefully.
GOWRON: He relies on you for his knowledge of Klingon law.
K'EHLEYR: Yes.
GOWRON: Then he values your advice. You could quicken the pace.
K'EHLEYR: Possibly. Why should I?
GOWRON: Your position is unique. Have you never wondered about serving the Klingon Empire?
K'EHLEYR: I serve in my own way.
GOWRON: As a Federation Ambassador. A few rewards, but little glory.
K'EHLEYR: What do you want?
GOWRON: What do you want? Command of a ship? A seat on the Council? There are many opportunities for you in the Empire.
K'EHLEYR: Opportunities that will present themselves only if you come to power. You talk like a Ferengi.
GOWRON: K'mpec was also stubborn. He too refused to listen. Now, he's gone. You need not make the same mistake.
K'EHLEYR: K'mpec was old and weak. I am not.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've completed our analysis of the bomb debris, Commander.
DATA: The explosive was a triceron derivative.
LAFORGE: And the entire device couldn't have been more than three cubic millimeters in size.
RIKER: It could have been hidden anywhere in that room.
LAFORGE: There's one more thing. The bomb had a molecular-decay detonator.
DATA: Only one race uses that device, sir.
RIKER: The Romulans.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: How could the Romulans plant a bomb on board a Klingon attack cruiser?
WORF: It would be impossible.
K'EHLEYR: Not if the Romulans had help from one of the Klingons.
LAFORGE: Klingons and Romulans working together? They've been blood enemies for seventy five years.
PICARD: Perhaps Duras or Gowron wishes to improve that relationship.
RIKER: A new Klingon alliance with the Romulans?
DATA: If true, it would represent a fundamental shift of power in the quadrant.
PICARD: Indeed. It would put the Federation in a very difficult position.
RIKER: Duras or Gowron?
K'EHLEYR: Gowron came to me alone. He wanted me to speed up the ja'chuq. Offered me a seat on the Council if I'd help him.
PICARD: That doesn't suggest a Romulan connection?
K'EHLEYR: He also implied I'd end up like K'mpec if I didn't cooperate.
WORF: Captain, I disagree. It must be Duras.
K'EHLEYR: Why?
PICARD: We have had prior dealings with Duras that show him to be untrustworthy.
K'EHLEYR: Can you be more specific?
PICARD: No. Mister Worf, we have a conspiracy on our hands that could be a direct threat to the security of the Federation.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: As Chief Security Officer, you will accompany me to the next transition proceeding.
WORF: Captain, they will be incensed. My presence will be disruptive.
PICARD: Yes, it will.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Computer, list stardates of the last Enterprise mission to the Klingon home planet.
COMPUTER: Stardates 43685 through 43689.
K'EHLEYR: How many ship's logs during that period?
COMPUTER: Forty three officer's logs. Ten personal logs.
K'EHLEYR: Is there a personal log for Lieutenant Worf?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Access is restricted.
K'EHLEYR: Eliminate all personal logs. List the remaining forty three in chronological order. We'll just take them one at a time.

[Observation lounge]
GOWRON: jIH DoQ batlh!
PICARD: Both your claims have been properly made and recorded. We are ready for the final phase of the ja'chuq. There will be a recess while I review your petitions. I'm sure you're as concerned as I am about the explosion aboard K'mpec's vessel. I assume that you are both continuing your investigations?
GOWRON: The investigations are complete. They revealed nothing of any importance.
PICARD: Now that's very surprising. Our analysis turned up some startling results. Will you join us, Lieutenant?
DURAS: What is this?
GOWRON: He has no place here, Picard!
DURAS: I will not sit at the same table with that!
PICARD: It is my prerogative to investigate anything that may be relevant to the Rite of Succession. Lieutenant Worf is my Chief Security Officer. His presence is required.
DURAS: We will not proceed.
PICARD: If you wish to withdraw from the ja'chuq, that is your option. Proceed, Mister Worf.
WORF: What did your investigations reveal about the explosion?
DURAS: It was a bomb.
WORF: And was your analysis just as insightful?
GOWRON: It was a common explosive.
WORF: What type?
GOWRON: Triceron.
WORF: What about the detonator?
DURAS: This is pointless! The findings were inconclusive.
WORF: Fortunately, our investigation was more thorough. The bomb used a molecular-decay detonator.
GOWRON: What?
PICARD: A Romulan device.
DURAS: I will return to my ship to confirm these conclusions myself.
GOWRON: As will I.
PICARD: Mister Worf, please be sure to send a complete record of our findings to both vessels and to the High Council.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: That will be all.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Computer, interlock with the Klingon Imperial Information Net.
COMPUTER: Interlock established.
K'EHLEYR: Federation Ambassador K'Ehleyr requesting diplomatic access to High Council record. Security code pah doQ cha!
COMPUTER: Proceed.
K'EHLEYR: Computer, display summary of the most recent High Council inquiry regarding Khitomer massacre.
COMPUTER: Access denied. Restricted materials, du ko cha clearance only.
K'EHLEYR: By whose order?
COMPUTER: Council member Duras.
K'EHLEYR: Access biographical files. Subject name, Councilor Duras.

[Duras' quarters]
DURAS: Advise my counselors on the Vorn to convene. There is much to discuss.
KLINGON: Look.
DURAS: What is this?
KLINGON: Priority message to you from the home planet. It seems Ambassador K'Ehleyr is looking into things she should not be.
DURAS: Distract the guard for me.
KLINGON: Yes, sir.
GUARD: Sir. Excuse me, sir. You cannot leave your quarters without an escort.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
K'EHLEYR: Come.
DURAS: I have been informed of your attempt to access restricted Council records.
K'EHLEYR: I've been investigating what happened at Khitomer. Not at all an easy task, considering that most of the records are sealed.
DURAS: Worf's father was a traitor.
K'EHLEYR: No, the evidence was altered to make it appear that way. I found it interesting to read that your father was also at Khitomer and you are the one who sealed the records.
DURAS: You would dare to insult my father's name?
K'EHLEYR: Don't play the wounded Klingon for me, Duras. You don't do it very well. What happened in that Council Chamber? How did you get Worf to take the blame for you?
DURAS: Do not pursue this matter further.
K'EHLEYR: The son betrays his people to the Romulans just as his father did, Duras?

[Doctor's office]
CRUSHER: One of the Klingons who died in the explosion was with Duras, the other was with Gowron. I've been examining the bodies, trying to get a clue to where the bomb was hidden. There's always a pattern in the lacerations and tissue damage. It would normally give a clear indication as to the direction, distance, force of impact.
RIKER: Normally?
CRUSHER: In this case, the pattern was virtually impossible to detect. I couldn't understand it until I looked at the dynoscans. This wound is different from all of the others. It was made from the inside out. The bomb was implanted in one of their forearms.
RIKER: It's considered an honorable way for a Klingon to die, a suicide that takes an enemy with it. Which one of them was it?
CRUSHER: Duras' man.

[Corridor]
WORF: When we have more time I will take you to the holodeck and demonstrate in more detail

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
WORF: Medical emergency, deck eight, room one four two!
WORF: Gowron?
K'EHLEYR: No.
WORF: Duras!
K'EHLEYR: Alexander.
WORF: K'Ehleyr. K'Ehleyr!
WORF: You have never seen death. Then look. And always remember.
WORF: Stay with the doctor.
CRUSHER: Worf, when did you

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]
CRUSHER: Multiple stab wounds to the chest and abdomen. Too much trauma to the internal organs. There wasn't time enough to take her into stasis.
PICARD: Where's Worf?
CRUSHER: I don't know. He disappeared just after I arrived.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Worf. Computer, locate Lieutenant Worf.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Worf is not aboard the Enterprise.
PICARD: Where is he?
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Worf transported to the Klingon ship Vorn at seventeen thirty hours.
RIKER: On my way.

[Duras' quarters]
WORF: Duras.
DURAS: What is that doing here?
KLINGON: He has claimed the right of vengeance.
DURAS: You have no rights here, traitor!
WORF: K'Ehleyr was my mate.

[Corridor]
DATA: If Lieutenant Worf resists, sir?
RIKER: He's coming back with us one way or another. Set phasers on maximum stun.

[Duras' quarters]
DURAS: I'm the only one, Worf, the only one who can prove your innocence. Kill me and you're a traitor for ever.
WORF: Then that is how it shall be.
RIKER: Worf!

[Ready room]
PICARD: Mister Worf, your service aboard the Enterprise has been exemplary. Until now.
WORF: Sir, I have acted within the boundaries of Klingon law and tradition.
PICARD: The High Council would seem to agree. They consider the matter closed. I don't. Mister Worf, the Enterprise crew currently includes representatives from thirteen planets. They each have their individual beliefs and values and I respect them all. But they have all chosen to serve Starfleet. If anyone cannot perform his or her duty because of the demands of their society, they should resign. Do you wish to resign?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: I had hoped you would not throw away a promising career. I understand your loss, We all admired K'Ehleyr. A reprimand will appear on your record. Dismissed. Mister Worf, isn't it time for the truth about your father's innocence to be told? After all, you only accepted this dishonor to protect the name of Duras and hold the Empire together. Now that he has died in disgrace, what is gained by further silence?
WORF: Each member of the Klingon High Council has shared in that lie. They will not be so willing to admit their own dishonor. But the day will come when my brother and I will convince them to speak the truth.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: My parents, my human parents, will meet us at Starbase seventy three. They will care for you.
ALEXANDER: Why can't I stay with you?
WORF: You deserve a home, a family. They can provide that I cannot. I miss her too.
ALEXANDER: Are you my father?
WORF: Yes. I am your father.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: All right, Commander. You've got till your next birthday to get that right.
TROI: Some things improve with age. Maybe your trombone playing will be one of them.
CRUSHER: It's candle time, birthday boy.
TROI: So, what did you wish for, Will?
RIKER: Music lessons.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, we must hurry or we'll miss Commander Riker's party.
DATA: Sir. I find it interesting how much importance humans place on celebrating the day of their birth. A day they cannot possibly remember.
CREWMAN: Captain, I am detecting some unusual fluctuations in subspace frequencies.
PICARD: You'd better take a look at it, Mister Data.
DATA: It appears we are being probed, sir.
PICARD: Source?
DATA: The third planet of the Alpha Onias system. Our reports list it as presently uninhabited. Perhaps reports were incorrect, sir.
PICARD: Maybe the rumors of a secret Romulan base in this sector are true. Picard to Commander Riker.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD (voiceover): I apologize for interrupting your celebration, but I'm going to need an away team. Could you report to the Bridge, please?

[Bridge]
DATA: Although Alpha Onias three is a class M planet, our survey teams have listed it as barren and inhospitable.
RIKER: Any life signs?
DATA: No, sir, but we have traced residual energy readings to a cavern two kilometers beneath the surface.
WORF: Romulans?
DATA: It is possible.
PICARD: I suppose you'll just have to go down there and find out.
RIKER: Geordi, Worf, you're with me.
PICARD: Number One. Happy birthday.

[Cavern]
LAFORGE: I'm detecting high levels of volcanic gasses. Sulfur dioxide, methane, hydrogen sulfide.
RIKER: Toxic?
LAFORGE: We're okay for now, but I wouldn't want to spend my vacation here.
RIKER: What about energy readings?
WORF: Magnetic clutter is increasing. I cannot make an accurate determination.
LAFORGE: Same here, Commander. I'm getting a lot of confusing readings here,
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker, please acknowledge.
RIKER: Riker here.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): We're having trouble reading you.
PICARD: And we are having similar difficulties reading you. I am advising you and your away team

[Cavern]
PICARD (voiceover): to transport up at once.
LAFORGE: That's good advice, Commander. We've got a sudden build up of gasses here, especially methane.
RIKER: Transporter Room.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): Take us up.
HUBBLE: I can't get a solid lock on you, sir. Too much interference.

[Cavern]
HUBBLE (voiceover): I'm trying again.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, what's happening?

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Report.
HUBBLE: I'm trying again, sir.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher, he's awake.
RIKER: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Will. You remember me. That's good. What else do you remember, Captain?
RIKER: Captain?
CRUSHER: Water, three Celsius. How do you feel?
RIKER: Confused.
CRUSHER: That's understandable, considering what's happened.
RIKER: What has happened? What happened to Sickbay? To you? To me?
CRUSHER: Sit down, Captain.
RIKER: Captain? I am Commander William T Riker. What is going on here?
CRUSHER: Sit. Please. What is the last thing that you remember clearly?
RIKER: Alpha Onias three. The Enterprise had been probed. Geordi, Worf, and I transported down to track the source.
CRUSHER: But all you found there was toxic gas. They barely had time to get the three of you out. Will, that happened sixteen years ago.
RIKER: That's not possible.
CRUSHER: With an Altarian virus, anything is possible. In fact, we've been expecting this.
RIKER: Could you be more specific?
CRUSHER: That day on Onias three, you were infected with a strain of Altarian encephalitis, a retrovirus that incorporates its DNA directly into the cells of its host. It can lie dormant for many years and then suddenly become active again, as it did in your case ten days ago. You have been in a coma, delirious. Your fever finally broke this morning.
RIKER: But what happened to my memory?
CRUSHER: Let me show you a scan of your brain tissue. When the encephalitis became active it caused widespread synapse degradation, interrupting the consolidation of your memory patterns.
RIKER: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Will, this virus inevitably causes memory loss back to the moment of the original infection. In your case, all the way back to Alpha Onias three.
RIKER: I don't believe this. Is this a dream?
CRUSHER: Feel my hand. It is flesh and bone. This is not a dream and you are, in fact, Captain William T. Riker in command of the Enterprise.
RIKER: The Enterprise. For how long?
CRUSHER: Nine years.
RIKER: If I have lost my memory, how do I get it back?
CRUSHER: Memories are formed by association. Smells, sounds, and images from the present could possibly trigger them.
RIKER: Like a song reminds you of an old friend.
CRUSHER: Exactly. In associational therapy, we expose the patient to familiar surroundings. This could stimulate the brain's neural synapses into regenerating.
RIKER: Then let's get started. There's nothing more familiar than the Enterprise. Maybe that'll bring back some
CRUSHER: Will, I said your memory could return. In many of these cases the damage is permanent.

[Corridor]
RIKER: What about Geordi and Worf? Were they infected too?
CRUSHER: Thankfully, no. Geordi appears to have been immune and the Klingons don't seem to be affected by the virus.
RIKER: Speaking of Klingons
CRUSHER: There've been quite a few changes on the Enterprise in the last sixteen years.

[Turbolift]
CRUSHER: Deck eight.
RIKER: Belay that order.
CRUSHER: We should begin the associational therapy in your quarters. Personal recollections are always the most vivid.
RIKER: My life was on the main Bridge. Always has been. If anything's going to jog my memory. Main Bridge.
COMPUTER: Repeat command.
RIKER: I said main Bridge.
CRUSHER: Computer's been slow all morning. A processing accelerator's down. Commander La Forge has running a level one diagnostic to isolate the problem.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Oh, it's good to see you up and about again, sir.
RIKER: Your eyes. What happened to your visor?
LAFORGE: My visor? I'm sorry, sir. Doctor Crusher told us that you might not remember. I haven't need a visor since I got these cloned implants, Captain.
WORF: Captain.
DATA: Welcome back, Captain. We were not expecting to see you on the Bridge so soon.
RIKER: Commander Data. You're my First Officer?
DATA: Do you remember, sir?
RIKER: Data, I haven't remembered a day for the last sixteen years.
WORF: Captain, warbird uncloaking.
DATA: On screen.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
DATA: Captain, we were expecting the Decius. There is no cause for alarm.
RIKER: Cancel red alert. Clearly I need to be briefed.
WORF: Captain, the Decius is hailing us. The Admiral wishes to speak to you.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD (screen): Will.
RIKER: Admiral Picard. Deanna.
TROI (screen): How are you feeling?
RIKER: I've felt better.
PICARD (screen): Not surprising. Altarian viruses can be a nasty business.
RIKER: That's an understatement. I can't even
PICARD (screen): We'll discuss this after we've transport over. Picard out.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Transporter room six.
CRUSHER: How are you holding up?
RIKER: I could get used to the idea of a Ferengi ensign, but Admiral Picard on a Romulan warbird? What is that all about?
CRUSHER: I think I should leave all the explanations to the Admiral.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Whenever you're ready, Chief.
PICARD: Captain Riker. it's good to see you have recovered.
RIKER: I'm not exactly sure you can call it a recovery, sir.
TROI: Then there has been some memory loss.
PICARD: How much?
CRUSHER: Everything since Alpha Onias three.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: To lose sixteen years. It's almost beyond belief.
RIKER: I have trouble believing it myself.
TROI: It's overwhelming to have so much of your life missing.
PICARD: And it couldn't have happened at a worse time. A few more days of relatively simple negotiations, and the treaty will be signed.
RIKER: What negotiations? What treaty?
PICARD: Sorry. I'll start at the beginning, which is four years ago. A Romulan battle cruiser strayed into Federation space. Its warp coils had collapsed, life support was failing.
TROI: You saved them, Will, you and the Enterprise.
PICARD: The Romulans were impressed, to say the least. After years of distrust and conflict, they started to talk. You were our key spokesman in securing the alliance with the Romulans.
RIKER: How far have these negotiations progressed?
PICARD: The preliminaries are over. All we need do now is escort the Romulan Ambassador to the final session.
TROI: Where you will complete the negotiations and sign the treaty.
RIKER: Captain. Admiral. I am in no condition to negotiate with the Romulans or with anyone else.
PICARD: Will, you're sound of mind and body. If you are properly briefed, you will still be able to fulfill your duty.
RIKER: With a sixteen year gap in my head?
PICARD: We do need you.
RIKER: Sir, I'm not fit to resume command.
PICARD: I appreciate your candor, but despite your condition there is no one better equipped to deal with these Romulans than you.
RIKER: When do we leave?
PICARD: As soon as the Ambassador transports over from the Decius. We will get through this, as we have many times before.
RIKER: I hope so.
TROI: Let me take you to your quarters.
RIKER: Good idea. I've had enough surprises for one day.

[Riker's quarters]
TROI: Anything familiar? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Hi, Dad. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: and then Mister Greenburg asked about the Fornax Disaster, and I knew the Enterprise saved all the colonists. But I didn't know. Here it is. But I didn't know the exact stardate their sun went nova, so of you tell me, I'll write it down and that way I won't forget. You don't remember me, do you?
RIKER: I'm sorry.
TROI: I need to talk to your father, Jean-Luc. Would you mind leaving us alone for a moment?
RIKER: Why didn't you warn me?
TROI: Beverly hoped that meeting him like this might make an impact. Help you remember.
RIKER: Well, it made an impact alright.
TROI: Give it time.
RIKER: Jean-Luc.
TROI: Yes. The Admiral was very pleased when you chose that name. He is a wonderful boy.
RIKER: Deanna, who's his mother?
TROI: She died two years ago. A shuttle accident. I'm sorry, Will.
RIKER: I have no recollection of her at all. What was she like?
TROI: Min was beautiful, of course, strong, intelligent, patient.
RIKER: Well, if she was married to me, she had to be patient.
TROI: She was an excellent Captain's wife, and a very good ship's counselor. She took over after I left.
RIKER: I can't imagine you leaving the Enterprise.
TROI: Admiral Picard offered me a position at Starfleet Command. It was a tremendous opportunity. I couldn't refuse. But, what's important right now, today, is that you have a son who needs you. Spend time with him. You may find part of what you've lost.

[Jean-Luc's room]
JEAN-LUC: Pretty bad, huh?
RIKER: I've heard better. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: I've been practicing but I still can't get a good tone.
RIKER: You're putting too much pressure on the mouthpiece. Relax the embouchure. Don't use any muscles you don't need.
JEAN LUC: Show me again.
RIKER: Left hand. Right hand.
RIKER: Sixteen years, you'd think I'd be able to hit that note.
JEAN LUC: Come on, Dad, you always make that mistake.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Computer. Summarize service record. Riker, William T, Captain. Begin with the Fornax disaster.
COMPUTER: Please restate question.
RIKER: Service record, Riker, William T.
RIKER: Damn it. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Dad?
RIKER: Computer lag. I can't believe Geordi's still running his diagnostic. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Is that what you wanted?
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Captain Riker. The Romulan Ambassador is ready to transport over from the Decius.
RIKER: On my way. I'd better go. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Sure. Dad. Everything's going to be fine.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Troi tells me you met Jean-Luc. How's my namesake holding up to all this?
RIKER: Better than I am.
TROI: We did our best to prepare him.
RIKER: I'm trying to catch up with all this. I've still got a long way to go. A long way.
PICARD: Just follow my lead with the Ambassador. You'll be fine.

[Transporter room]
CHIEF: The Decius reports the Ambassador is waiting to transport.
RIKER: Beam him aboard.
TOMALAK: Admiral Picard, Captain Riker. It's good to see you again.
PICARD: Ambassador Tomalak. Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
TOMALAK: Thank you, Admiral. It is an honor to be the first Romulan to freely walk about a Federation Starship.
RIKER: Ambassador Tomalak? At Nelvana three, he threatened to take the hull of the Enterprise home as a war trophy.
TROI: That was a long time ago. Many things have changed, including Tomalak.

[Corridor]
TOMALAK: As soon as we arrive at your Outpost twenty three, the final negotiations should go quickly.
PICARD: I agree, Ambassador. All of the difficult issues have been resolved.
TOMALAK: After much debate. Your Captain Riker is the kind of negotiator even the Ferengi should avoid.
PICARD: But we have come to an agreement both sides are happy with, largely thanks to Captain Riker.
TOMALAK: And we are grateful, Captain. The new alliance will greatly benefit my people.
RIKER: As I hope it will benefit mine.
TOMALAK: It will, Captain. It will.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Main Bridge.
TOMALAK: The virus you contracted, Captain. Have you fully recovered?
PICARD: I assure you Captain Riker is quite well. He's looking forward to attending the final negotiations as planned.
TOMALAK: Excellent. The signing of this treaty is an historic occasion. You, of all people, deserve to be there.
RIKER: Thank you, Ambassador.

[Bridge]
TOMALAK: So this is the Bridge of the Enterprise. And this, I assume, is your Tactical position. Impressive.
RIKER: Excuse me. Admiral, Deanna, I need a moment with you. Commander Data, if you would accompany the Ambassador on his tour.
DATA: Certainly, sir.
RIKER: Excuse us, Ambassador.
DATA: Ambassador, you may find this of interest. These newly refined sensors are capable of pinpointing the power emissions of a cloaked warbird even at warp.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Are you saying you trust Tomalak?
PICARD: I trust the process we have built with the Romulans over the past four years. They have nothing to gain by betrayal.
RIKER: Are you sure? You've always said it's a chess game with the Romulans. Move, counter move, guile and deceit.
TROI: I sense no such dishonesty in Tomalak. His desire for peace is sincere. He wants this alliance. There is no cause for concern.
RIKER: No cause for concern? We're talking about revealing the location of Outpost twenty three, the key to all of our defenses in the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: I'm sorry, Will, your information is out of date. The strategic importance of Outpost twenty three is minimal. Has been for years.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher to Riker. Are you there, Captain?
RIKER: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Your son has been injured. He's been taken to Sickbay. You'd better come down here right away.

[Sickbay]
JEAN-LUC: Dad.
RIKER: Are you alright? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: I'm fine.
RIKER: What happened?
CRUSHER: It's broken, but it's going to be all right in just a minute. Now, let's go easy on this arm for a little while, okay?
RIKER: How'd this happen? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: I was in the gym playing parrises squares.
RIKER: Parrises squares? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: I fell off the ramp.
RIKER: At your age? You could break your neck! JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
CRUSHER: Continue the compression attenuator for two more minutes.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Can I talk to you for a moment?
RIKER: I'll be right back.
CRUSHER: Will, how old were you when you first started playing parrises squares?
RIKER: Alright, I was probably a little younger than he is. It's just that, for all practical purposes, this is my first day as a father and he almost kills himself.
CRUSHER: He didn't almost kill himself. He just broke a wrist, just like a lot of other boys his age when they fall.
RIKER: You're right. It's difficult.
CRUSHER: Difficult for you? What about for Jean-Luc? Can you imagine how he feels? You've lost sixteen years. Jean-Luc has lost a lot more than that. First his mother and now his father.
OGAWA: Good as new, Captain. You can take him home.
RIKER: Thanks. How's the arm?
JEAN LUC: It's fine. Dad, I'm really sorry. I mean, I know you've got more important things to do.
RIKER: There is nothing more important than this, son.

[Turbolift]
JEAN-LUC: Deck eight.
RIKER: Halt. I know how hard this is for you. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: It's okay, Dad.
RIKER: No, okay's not good enough. When I was your age, my own father he wasn't there for me. And I really needed him. I've often wondered what kind of father I'd be. I never felt quite ready. The idea even scared me a little. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Scared? You?
RIKER: Yeah. But I guess I got over it. You're here. Resume. It's important to me that I don't let you down, Jean-Luc. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: You never have, Dad. You've always been there for me.
RIKER: I'll have to take your word for that because I don't remember any of it. Your first step, your first tooth, nothing. And I want to remember. I guess there's only one thing we can do. We've got to build some new memories.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I'm not sure it's still in the memory banks, but I used to have a great fishing program on the holodeck. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: The Curtis Creek program?
RIKER: You know it? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Sure. We've gone to Curtis Creek lots of times.
RIKER: Would you like to go again? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: You bet.
RIKER: Well as soon as these negotiations are out of the way, you and I are going fishing. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Great!

[Riker's quarters]
JEAN-LUC: And then Mom tried to net the fish, and she fell in the creek, too. And then you tried to pull us both out, and you fell in.
RIKER: I'm not sure I want to remember that. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Mom really liked Curtis Creek. We went there for picnics and stuff lots of times.
RIKER: What was she like? JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: She was great. I think of her a lot. I'd better go change.
RIKER: Computer. Display family record. Riker. William T. Limit to visual.
RIKER: Display family record. Riker, Mrs. William T.
COMPUTER: Please restate request.
RIKER: Damn. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: What's wrong, Dad?
RIKER: The computer still isn't working properly. I can't get a visual of your mother. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: But I know Mom's pictures are there. Did you give a stardate? Computer. Display family record. Riker, Mrs. William T. Home file. Stardate 58416.
RIKER: Min! Minuet. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: Mom was beautiful, wasn't she?
RIKER: Yes. JEAN-
JEAN-LUC: What's wrong, Dad?
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, please come to the Bridge.
RIKER: On my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What's the problem?
LAFORGE: I've had to shut down the warp engines, Captain.
RIKER: Why?
LAFORGE: Antimatter containment fields are fluctuating. It's nothing to worry about though.
RIKER: We're on the edge of the Neutral Zone on impulse power, and you're not concerned?
LAFORGE: I'll have the engines back online in no time, sir.
RIKER: Like you tracked down that faulty processing accelerator?
LAFORGE: I'm running a level one diagnostic.
RIKER: For thirty hours? It would never take you more than four. You're incapable of that level of incompetence, Mister La Forge. Worf, where did you get that scar?
WORF: In combat.
RIKER: What battle? When? Which sector? Which unit? Mister Data, if we left immediately, when would we arrive at Outpost twenty three?
DATA: At warp one, in three days, four hours.
RIKER: How about at warp seven? At warp eight? At warp nine? What's the matter, Data? What happened to those millions of calculations per second?
DATA: Pardon me, sir. I am experiencing subspace interference which limits my abilities. I can't operate as quickly as
RIKER: What did you say?
DATA: I said I cannot operate
RIKER: No! That's not what you said. You said I can't. You used a contraction, didn't you?
DATA: Sir, I can explain if you would just give me a moment.
RIKER: No you can't. Don't even try.
PICARD: Captain, perhaps it would be best if we discussed this
RIKER: Shut up!
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
RIKER: I said, shut up. As in close your mouth and stop talking.
TROI: Will, I sense how upset you are. You're angry and impatient.
RIKER: Deanna, back off. Well, would anyone else like to speak up? Or shall we end this charade?
TOMALAK: As you wish, Commander Riker.

[Romulan Holodeck]
TOMALAK: The charade is over.

[Control room]
RIKER: The Enterprise? my son you created it all.
TOMALAK: With the help of our neural scanners and what you would call a holodeck. Now, please tell me. How did you discover the truth? The future we constructed for you should have been convincing.
RIKER: It wasn't. There was a computer time lag, for one thing.
TOMALAK: Unavoidable. Our scanners have a limited response time, so whenever you strayed from our expectations. But surely that was not enough to
RIKER: To smash your house of cards? No. It was the visual record of my wife, Minuet. Bad move.
TOMALAK: But we chose someone from your past who is still alive. A woman you were extremely attracted to
RIKER: Your mistake, Tomalak. Minuet was nothing more than a computer generated fantasy I once experienced on another holodeck.
TOMALAK: Impossible. In your mind that woman exists, physically. Your feelings toward her remain quite passionate.
RIKER: She was part of a very special program.
TOMALAK: So much effort, so little accomplished.
RIKER: If it was Outpost twenty three you were after, why didn't you use your neural scanners to probe my mind?
TOMALAK: Our scanners are calibrated for Romulan brain patterns. When it comes to human brains, they are less efficient. There were gaps in the information we gathered from your memory.
RIKER: Gaps? From what I saw, I find that hard to believe. You recreated the Enterprise, the crew, every nuance and smell, sound, with perfect accurate. I didn't see any gaps. I don't buy it, Tomalak.
TOMALAK: We're wasting time. Bring him.

[Tunnel]
TOMALAK: When you and your colleagues transported to this planet, you were less than a kilometer from this base. Your capture was a simple matter.
RIKER: My colleagues, where are they?
TOMALAK: We allowed them to transport safely back to the Enterprise, but your signal was diverted.
RIKER: My people won't stop looking for me, Tomalak.
TOMALAK: They already have.
TOMALAK: Please, say hello to your son.

[Holding cell]
RIKER: Jean-Luc?
TOMALAK: That is not his name, of course, nor have you ever really met him. We merely used his image to augment your program.
RIKER: What have you done to him?
TOMALAK: While I am gone, please give careful thought to your situation.
RIKER: What's your name?
RIKER: Whoa. If we're going to get out of here, you're going to have to trust me. Easy, I'm not going to hurt you. Who are you? How did you get here? My name is Will.
ETHAN: Ethan. They brought me here with my parents. We were at a research station on Miridian six.
RIKER: Miridian six? On the edge of the Neutral Zone? I thought that was uninhabited.
ETHAN: The station was set up last year. Then the Romulans came.
RIKER: It's odd that the Enterprise wasn't advised. Where are your parents now?
ETHAN: They took them away.
RIKER: Do you know why the Romulans are keeping you here?
ETHAN: No. I just want to get away.
RIKER: I'll get us out of here, Ethan.
ETHAN: How? Even if we do get away, they'll find us. They found me when I escaped before.
RIKER: You escaped?
ETHAN: Yes. I hid in a secret place for weeks, but they caught me when I came out to find food.
TOMALAK: I want that information, Commander. I want the location of Outpost twenty three. Very well. I have been given permission to use whatever means are necessary
RIKER: Ethan, no!
TOMALAK: Stop him!

[Tunnel]
RIKER: That secret hiding place of yours?
ETHAN: This way
ETHAN: In here.

[Crawlspace]
RIKER: Their sensors should have picked us up.
ETHAN: No, they can't. I heard them. There's something in these rocks.
RIKER: Heavy metals?
ETHAN: Right.

[Store room]
ETHAN: The Romulans forgot all about this storeroom when they rebuilt their tunnels. Here, use these. Help me.
ETHAN: After I got away last time, I mapped out all their tunnels. Supply depot, communications, living quarters and shuttlebay.
RIKER: How many guards in the shuttlebay?
ETHAN: Only two or three.
RIKER: If we stole a shuttlecraft, that would get us nowhere. The Romulans could follow their own ship to easily. But if we broke into their communications system, we could send a message to the Enterprise.
ETHAN: We can't do that. The transmitter is on a voice-activated security system.
RIKER: Do you know whose voice activates it?
ETHAN: Only Ambassador Tomalak.
RIKER: Who?
ETHAN: Tomalak.
RIKER: Ambassador Tomalak? Tomalak is a Romulan Captain. The only time he was ever called Ambassador was in a holodeck fantasy. How do you know about that?
ETHAN: You, er, you told me about him.
RIKER: Who are you? What is your part in all this?
ETHAN: They've found us!
RIKER: But you said their sensors didn't work in this tunnel.
ETHAN: They must have fixed them. We've got to go!
RIKER: Where are we going to go, Ethan?
ETHAN: The shuttlebay. There's still time.
RIKER: I've had enough.
TOMALAK: Commander, surrender your weapon.
RIKER: No more games. No more fantasies. I'm not going to play anymore.

[Cavern]
RIKER: It was never the Romulans. It was you all along, wasn't it?

[Bridge]
DATA: There is no question about it, sir. It is his signal.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. Do you read me?
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard. I'm here.
PICARD: Are you all right?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir, I'm all right. What about

[Cavern]
RIKER: Geordi and Worf?
PICARD (voiceover): We beamed them up an hour ago. They're fine.

[Bridge]
PICARD: But we lost you in mid-transport. Where've you been? What is going on down there?
RIKER (voiceover): I'm not sure yet, sir.

[Cavern]
RIKER: But I think I'm about to find out. Stand by. What shall I call you? Ethan? Jean-Luc?
ETHAN: It doesn't matter.
RIKER: This room, it's more than a holodeck, isn't it?
ETHAN: Much more. The neural scanners read my mind, give me everything I want. Just like they tried to give you everything you wanted.
RIKER: Everything I wanted? You probed the Enterprise. You lured us here so you could play games with me. I didn't want that, you did. Why?
ETHAN: My world was invaded. My people killed. My mother brought me here so our enemies would never find me.
RIKER: They found her, didn't they?
ETHAN: She knew that they would never stop looking for her, so she made sure I would be safe.
ETHAN: She left the scanners to protect me, to give me anything I wanted.
RIKER: Anything? Then why did you kidnap me?
ETHAN: I wanted you to stay. It's been so long. I just want somebody real. I thought that you'd be happy. I'm sorry.
RIKER: I have to return to my ship. Come with me. You don't have to stay here anymore. You don't have to be alone anymore.
ETHAN: My name is Barash.
RIKER: To me, you'll always be Jean-Luc. Two to transport.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44307.3. I am preparing to leave by shuttlecraft for Pentarus Five, where I have been asked to mediate a dispute among the salenite miners, a contentious group unfortunately prone to violence. But first I must deal with a situation of a far more personal nature.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: Mister Crusher, I summoned you almost ten minutes ago.
WESLEY: Sir, I'm sorry. I was in the middle of a very important experiment. I was using some very volatile compounds. I couldn't just leave them lying out
PICARD: Excuses, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: No, sir. I was just attempting to offer a
PICARD: Because I can assure you that will not go down well at Starfleet Academy.
WESLEY: Yes, sir, I'm aware of that. The Academy?
PICARD: I just received a message from Admiral Nsomeka. She expects you to report in two weeks. A position has opened up in this year's class.
WESLEY: Thank you.
PICARD: Now, you'll have to work overtime in order to catch up, but I have assured the Admiral that you are capable of that. Please don't make a liar out of me.
WESLEY: Oh, no, sir, I won't.
PICARD: Well, for your final mission aboard the Enterprise you will accompany me to Pentarus Five while I try to sort out the problems with the miners. Commander Riker has told me you've been studying the effects of outpost judiciary decisions on Federation Law. What better way to get first hand experience?
WORF: Captain, I am picking up a general distress signal from Gamelan Five.
PICARD: On screen.
SONGI (screen): Please. Does anyone read us?
PICARD: Open a channel. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
SONGI (screen): Captain, I am Chairman Songi of Gamelan Four. An unidentified spacecraft has entered orbit above our planet. Radiation levels in our atmosphere have increased by three thousand percent. We can only assume we are under attack, but the ship will not answer our hails. We are a peaceful planet. We have no ability to defend ourselves. Please, can you help us?
PICARD: Mister Data, are we close enough for a scan?
DATA: No, sir, we are out of range.
RIKER: Any other ships in that sector?
DATA: Negative, Commander.
PICARD: Chairman Songi, we will proceed immediately to your planet.
SONGI (screen): Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: Commander Riker, take the Enterprise and investigate the problem. Ensign Crusher and I will proceed to Pentarus Five. The miners have sent a shuttle. We shall leave in ten minutes.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Shuttlebay]
LAFORGE: You know, I've noticed here that your maneuvering thrusters are rigged in a configuration I've never seen before.
DIRGO: It's my own modification. It's more efficient. You can study it if you want to.
LAFORGE: Excuse me, Captain. I've run safety and operational inspections, Captain. Everything checks out all right, but I won't make any claims as to its comfort.
DIRGO: Captain Picard. Captain Dirgo of the shuttlecraft Nenebek.
PICARD: Ah, Captain. It's good to meet you.
WESLEY: Captain? Of a mining shuttle?
DIRGO: Yes, Ensign, Captain. My ship isn't pretty, she isn't big, but we've logged almost ten thousand hours together.
PICARD: Oh, yes. She seems a very sturdy craft.
DIRGO: We should go. Captain, will you take Ops?
PICARD: I'll let Ensign Crusher perform that task. I have to study up on Regalian law.

[Bridge]
DATA: Shuttlecraft has cleared the bay, sir.
RIKER: Ensign Allenby, set a course for the Gamelan system. Warp six.
ALLENBY: Aye, aye, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
DIRGO: You've done this before?
WESLEY: Yes.
DIRGO: Your Captain back there. If he isn't tougher than he looks, those miners will tear him apart.
WESLEY: Don't worry about Captain Picard. He'll handle them.
WESLEY: I've lost navigation.
DIRGO: The port thruster quad's gone. Guidance coupling's severed. I can't stabilize her.
WESLEY: The port thruster module blew.
DIRGO: Nenebek to Enterprise, emergency. Do you read? Pentarus station, come in. Communication's gone.
PICARD: Is your navigational system functioning?
DIRGO: Negative. Switching to manual. Fifty million kilometers to Pentarus Five. We may have to put down somewhere else.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, scan for a class-M environment.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DIRGO: I'm going to have to throttle back on the main impulse engines.
WESLEY: Sir, one of the moons around Pentarus Three registers as class M, barely. The mean temperature is fifty five degrees Celsius.
PICARD: Life forms indicated?
WESLEY: Negative, but scanning is limited. There's a very strong magnetic field around the surface.
DIRGO: We don't have a choice. Save the impulse engine for controlled entry.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, reconfigure working thrusters to manual input.
WESLEY: I'll try, sir but, this grid looks about a hundred years old.
DIRGO: We don't have the Federation's resources. Captain, take the helm. I'm rerouting the deuterium flow. Hull temperature seven hundred degrees.
PICARD: Beginning braking maneuver.
DIRGO: We're below mach one. Bypass the thrusters now.
PICARD: Brace yourself for impact.

[Moon's surface]
PICARD: Dear God. Let's salvage what we can. The first thing we'll need is shelter from the sun. In this heat, the shuttle will act like an oven.
DIRGO: All the systems are out. Can't get a communication channel. Location transponder's gone too.
PICARD: We'll have to check the craft for something to protect our heads and eyes. And Captain, please recover your medical supplies, food and water rations
DIRGO: Well, the medical supplies are all right.
PICARD: Food and water?
DIRGO: The replicator, damaged beyond repair.
PICARD: Surely you have emergency supplies?
DIRGO: This isn't a starship. I have to choose what I carry.
PICARD: Are you telling me there's no water?

[Bridge]
DATA: Scanning. Vessel reads as an unmanned sublight freighter.
RIKER: Origin?
DATA: Indeterminate. Propulsion appears to employ a gaseous core fission reactor, but it is not functioning.
LAFORGE: The radiation levels from that ship are off the scale.
RIKER: Could that be leakage from their engines?
DATA: No, sir. Engine reactor elements appear to have been inactive for approximately three hundred years. The vessel is carrying various unstable waste products.
LAFORGE: You mean, it's a garbage scow.
DATA: Precisely.
RIKER: Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Chairman Songi, this is Commander Riker on board the Enterprise.
SONGI (screen): Yes, Commander.
RIKER: It appears you've inherited someone else's problem. An old waste vessel caught by your planet's gravitational pull.
CRUSHER: Have your people begun to suffer from radiation sickness?
SONGI (screen): Not yet, but some areas are already detecting dangerous levels.
RIKER: We'll do our best to get it out of here as quickly as possible.
SONGI (screen): Thank you, Commander.
RIKER: We're going to push that barge into the Gamelan sun.
DATA: Sir, the Meltasion asteroid belt lies between here and the sun.
RIKER: Then we'll have to take it ourselves. We'll use our deflectors clear a path through the asteroids.
LAFORGE: I don't like the idea of getting close enough to that barge to tow it. The radiation levels are so high we'd be risking the contamination of the entire crew.
RIKER: Do you have a better idea, Geordi?
LAFORGE: We could send over a construction module to attach thrusters to it. Then we could direct it through the asteroid belt from a safe distance.
WORF: Commander, a message from the mining settlement on Pentarus Five. The shuttlecraft carrying Captain Picard has not yet arrived.
CRUSHER: They left here at oh eight hundred hours.
WORF: They have asked if we are beginning a search.
RIKER: Tell them we have an emergency situation. We'll begin a search as soon as we've completed that.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare to launch the construction module. I'd like to get this over with as fast as possible.

[Moon's surface]
PICARD: Any luck with the tricorder, Ensign?
WESLEY: I think so, sir. The scanning range may be a bit limited, but it's better than nothing.
DIRGO: These were on board, Captain. They're working.
PICARD: Excellent. Our communicators may not be able to get a signal through this strong a magnetic field. I'm fashioning an arrow. If a search party finds the wreckage, they'll know we've headed for those mountains.
DIRGO: Are you crazy? They're too far away. We'll never make it.
PICARD: We can't survive in this sun. Where there's mountains, there's shelter.
DIRGO: You've got no right to make the decisions. I'm the captain of this ship.
WESLEY: If you want to get out of this, I suggest you listen to Captain Picard. He's the one who's going to keep us alive.
PICARD: Thank you, Ensign, that's enough. Captain Dirgo, you're an able pilot. I welcome your input. Do you feel that there is an alternative we're overlooking?
DIRGO: No.
PICARD: Very well. I suggest a steady pace, not a brisk one. We need to ration our energy. Try breathing through your nose. That way it will help to prevent dehydration. I'll lead. Captain Dirgo, will you bring up the rear?
WESLEY: And you were worried about how tough the Captain is?
DIRGO: Did you find water?
WESLEY: No, not yet.
DIRGO: What are you doing with that?
PICARD: Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: I'm not sure, sir. It's an energy reading.
PICARD: Energy reading? What kind?
WESLEY: Low frequency EM. It's been getting stronger the closer we get to those mountains.
DIRGO: What are you saying? Is something over there, waiting for us?
WESLEY: I'm not sure what it is. It just keeps registers as a repeating energy pattern.
PICARD: Ensign, are you suggesting this energy is not naturally occurring?
WESLEY: The readings could be indicative of some electromagnetic properties in the rocks, but I don't think so.
PICARD: A life form?
WESLEY: It's possible. The pattern is fairly organized.
PICARD: Well, we can't go back and we can't stay here. We've got to keep going for the mountains. No matter what is waiting there.

[Cave entrance]
DIRGO: There has to be water in here. Aren't caves formed by water?
PICARD: Not necessarily. This could be created by volcanic activity. Lava flows. These walls are dry, Mister Crusher, do you have any moisture reading?
WESLEY: No, sir. But that EM reading? The pattern's changed. The frequency's peaking a lot higher.
WESLEY: You have water!
DIRGO: I wouldn't hide water. That's called dresci. It's from my planet.
PICARD: It's alcohol.
DIRGO: It's medicinal. It's for emergencies. I was going to share it with you.
PICARD: This wouldn't quench your thirst, it would make it worse.
DIRGO: I'll take my chances.
PICARD: I'm not going to let you waste this. This is more valuable to us as a coolant or disinfectant.
DIRGO: It's mine.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, stow that with the medical supplies. Keep your eye on it. All right, we're going to explore the cave. Mister Crusher, look for any signs of water, no matter how faint. Captain Dirgo, will you lead the way?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We're projecting that the bulk of the radiation will affect three small island groups. Fortunately, they're very sparsely populated. We'll begin replicating hyronalin now and be ready to transport it to them if it becomes necessary. Please coordinate with all the medical personnel on the planet.
TROI: Beverly? We've contacted the nearest Starbase for a search vessel. I'm afraid the closest one is almost a week away.
CRUSHER: I see. Thank you.
TROI: But we have asked the mining settlement to send any vessels they might have. You know, there are many reasons why the shuttlecraft may have been delayed.
CRUSHER: Deanna, thank you, but I'm all right. And for now, I have work to do.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, the miners report that they have very few operable shuttlecraft. They want to know when we will be joining the search.
RIKER: Tell them to stand by. If this works, we'll be on our way.
WORF: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Thrusters are attached and ready, Commander.
RIKER: Initiate prefire sequence.
LAFORGE: Prefire command transmitted. Thrusters to standby.
RIKER: Fire thrusters. Gradual acceleration to forty percent power.
LAFORGE: We've lost one module. Correcting thrust vectors to compensate.
DATA: Structural integrity of the barge has been compromised. Disintegration is continuing.
RIKER: Shut down thrusters. Ensign, take us to one thousand meters ahead of the barge and hold.
DATA: External radiation levels increasing, sir.
ALLENBY: Coming into position at one thousand meters.
RIKER: Worf, extend shields around the ship. Lock on the tractor beam.
WORF: Aye, sir.
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at seventy millirads per minute and rising.
RIKER: Allenby, set a new course. We'll take it through the asteroid belt ourselves. One quarter impulse.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher to the Bridge.
CRUSHER (voiceover): On my way.
RIKER: Mister Data, I'll a projection of the radiation's impact on the crew. Mister Worf, contact the mining settlement. Tell them we won't be joining the search for awhile.

[Cavern]
DIRGO: I knew there had to be water.
PICARD: Mister Crusher what was that?
WESLEY: It seems to be some kind of tightly confined annular force field, sir.
PICARD: Put there to protect the water.
WESLEY: Yes. There has to be a way to deactivate it, sir.
DIRGO: We can, with our phasers.
PICARD: Mister Dirgo, I think it would be wiser
WESLEY: Captain, the EM reading. The power level's really spiking now.
DIRGO: I think it's working.
PICARD: Dirgo!
PICARD: Stop firing!
PICARD: Wesley!

[Cave]
WESLEY: Apply pressure to that wound. This is the worst break.
DIRGO: What was that thing?
WESLEY: Keep the pressure constant.
PICARD: Ensign, how bad is it?
WESLEY: Your right leg is broken. You have a fracture in your left arm. And you took a blow to the head. But we're getting the bleeding under control.
PICARD: Well done. I'm going to be fine. I just need to get my breath.
DIRGO: Are you telling the truth?
WESLEY: What truth?
DIRGO: He's bleeding inside. I've seen it before. He's never going to survive.
WESLEY: You don't know what you're talking about.
DIRGO: You're wasting your time. Will you save that dresci for us.
PICARD: Mister Dirgo, I would appreciate it if you didn't bury me before I'm gone.
PICARD: The trouble is, he could be right.
WESLEY: No, he's not, sir. You're going to be fine.
PICARD: Wesley, you are going to have to keep a rein on Dirgo. He's wilful and stubborn. That's dangerous.
WESLEY: You'll handle him, sir.
PICARD: Wesley, listen to me. I have no feeling in my right leg. My vision is blurred. I'm going to get worse, not better. I'm not going to be able to help you. Now, you are going to have to stand up to Dirgo on your own.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Hey. Good man. First Officer's log, stardate 44307.6. Radiation levels on the Enterprise continue to rise. The ventilation system has started pumping hyronalin into our air supply to counteract the effects.

[Bridge]
DATA: At the rate the radiation levels are increasing, the hyronalin additive will only be effective for another thirty eight minutes.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Medical unit one, evacuate and seal off all non-operational areas. Group the crew and their families in the interior corridors of decks nine and ten. Radiation exposure protocol.
OGAWA (voiceover): Acknowledged, Doctor.
RIKER: Mister Data, at our current speed, how long will it take us to get through the asteroid belt?
DATA: Fifty one minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.
CRUSHER: There's going to be a lot of casualties if we can't get there any faster.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, how much more can we get out of that tractor beam?
LAFORGE: We're already at the maximum limits of our towing speed, Commander.
RIKER: Let's see if we can establish a new upper limit.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Data, monitor the shearing effect on the beam. Increasing to one half impulse.
DATA: Tractor beam is holding. Shearing force, eighty metric tons per meter.
LAFORGE: Increasing to three quarters impulse.
DATA: Shearing force ninety two metric tons. Ninety three. Tractor beam is destabilizing. Se are going to lose the barge, Commander.
RIKER: Reduce power.
ALLENBY: One half impulse.
RIKER: Geordi, you've got to stabilize that tractor beam.
LAFORGE: I can't divert any more power to the shields. We're already hitting our maximum thermal limits. Only other choice is to bring some other fusion reactors online, but we're running at peak coolant pressure.
RIKER: Do it.
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at one hundred fifty millirads per minute and rising. Lethal exposure in thirty five minutes.

[Cavern]
WESLEY: How did this happen?
DIRGO: That thing did it.
WESLEY: These are selenium fibers. Electrically deposited. The EM pattern is back down. It only peaks when we move towards the water. Whatever we saw must act like a sentry to try to guard the fountain. When we're not moving toward the water, the wave pattern stays low. Right between five and fifteen megahertz. Dirgo, move toward the fountain. Dirgo.
WESLEY: There. It just went to forty.
DIRGO: What is this getting us? We've got to get to the water.
WESLEY: If I can figure out how to manipulate the frequency, maybe I can control it. The sentry first appeared when you used your phaser. That means it could respond to heat, or collinated energy.
DIRGO: If you're right, we can use a phaser to lure it away.
WESLEY: Hold on. We need to know what we're dealing with before we start doing anything.
DIRGO: Enough talking, it's time to do something. I'll start firing. When it comes, you fire and draw it away.
WESLEY: Dirgo, I can't.
DIRGO: Put your phaser on automatic. Leave it on that ledge and take cover.
WESLEY: And what makes you think it's going to go for my phaser and not for yours?
DIRGO: Because I'll be firing on the lowest setting. You use maximum.
WESLEY: There is no evidence that it responds differently to higher settings. We have to figure out our options before we just
DIRGO: While we are doing that, your Captain is dying. With those wounds, most men would already be dead. If he doesn't get water. When I start firing, you better do your part. First Officer's log, supplemental. Mister La Forge has diverted power from auxiliary fusion generators in an attempt to stabilize the tractor beam. This is the only hope of increasing our towing speed so we can clear the asteroid belt before radiation levels become fatal.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at three hundred millirads per minute and rising. Lethal exposure in one minute.
LAFORGE: Ready, Commander. I'll be rotating the output of the auxiliary reactors, but it should still give us the power we need.
RIKER: Proceed, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Increasing to three quarters impulse.
DATA: Shearing force is at one hundred three metric tons. Tractor beam is stable.
LAFORGE: Full impulse.
DATA: Tractor beam is holding.
COMPUTER: Warning. Lethal radiation exposure in thirty seconds.
WORF: We are within visual range of the asteroid belt.
RIKER: On screen.
COMPUTER: Warning. Lethal radiation exposure in fifteen seconds.
RIKER: Prepare to cut the barge loose.
COMPUTER: Warning. Lethal radiation exposure in ten seconds.
DATA: We have cleared the asteroids, sir.
RIKER: Let it go.

[Cave]
PICARD: Cold.
WESLEY: When the sun went down, the temperature really dropped. This should help.
PICARD: Good. Thank you. I'm not much good to you, Wesley.
WESLEY: Sir, Dirgo is dead. I should've tried harder to stop him, but he. Captain! Captain Picard! Sir, stay with me.
PICARD: I'm trying.
WESLEY: Sir, do you remember when we took the shuttlecraft to Starbase five one five? I was dreading it. Six hours alone with you. But it didn't turn out the way that I thought. You opened up to me. I kind of got to know you.
PICARD: Wesley, it's my fault that you're here. I shouldn't have asked you.
WESLEY: Sir, I'm honored you wanted me along.
PICARD: I was selfish. I thought I wouldn't see you again. I'm sorry.
WESLEY: Sir, in the past three years I've lived more than most people do in a lifetime. I think I'm very lucky. no matter what happens. How many people get to serve with Jean-Luc Picard? Sir, you don't know this. No one knows this, because I never told anyone. All of the things I've worked for, school, my science projects, getting into the Academy, I've done it all because I want you to be proud of me. If there is one thing that I've learned from you, it's that you don't quit. And I'm not going to quit now. I've seen you think yourself out of worse problems than this, and I'm going to think us out of this. You're not going to die. I'm not going to let you die. I'll get to the water and I'll keep you alive until they find us. I promise. First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise is returning to the last known location of the missing shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you certain?
DATA: It is definitely debris. The primary material is duranium, with smaller proportions of sonodanite and ermanium.
LAFORGE: Most shuttlecraft hulls are made of duranium.
CRUSHER: Then they're gone.
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. There is far too little debris to account for an entire shuttlecraft.
RIKER: So what is it?
LAFORGE: You know, Dirgo had his maneuvering thrusters rigged a funny way. Claimed it was more efficient. If one of them blew it might have left debris like that.
RIKER: If only one of his thrusters was out, he could still have set down somewhere.
DATA: The only Class M planets in the system are Pentarus two and five, both of which have been thoroughly searched by the miners.
RIKER: Then we'll search them again.
DATA: Sir, there are also four moons in the Pentarus system that could support life.
RIKER: Have the miners searched them?
WORF: Not yet, sir.
RIKER: Which one is the closest one to the debris coordinates?
DATA: Lambda Paz, one of the moons of Pentarus three.
RIKER: Set a course, Ensign.

[Cave]
PICARD: Aupres de ma blonde, il fait bon, fait bon, fait bon. Ensign, where are we?
WESLEY: We crashed, sir. We're in a cave.
PICARD: I need water.
WESLEY: Sir, we don't have any water. Don't you remember? We tried to get to the fountain and Captain Dirgo
PICARD: Yes, I remember.
WESLEY: I think I'm on to something. I've analyzed the sentry's energy patterns.
PICARD: Wesley, I may not make it.
WESLEY: I've taken the transponder element from my communicator and I've used it to modify my tricorder.
PICARD: No, listen.
WESLEY: I think I can use it to interrupt the sentry's electrical pattern. Stop it, maybe slow it down.
PICARD: Listen to me.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: There's so much I wanted to tell you. The Academy, there's someone, someone who meant a great deal to me. He's been there forever. Someone you must get to know. His name is Boothby. Now, you tell him that you and I were friends. Now, when I was there, he helped me. Listen to him.
WESLEY: What does he teach?
PICARD: He's the groundskeeper. One of the wisest men I ever knew. Oh, I envy you, Wesley Crusher. You're just at the beginning of the adventure. Go on. Get the water. Stay alive. They'll find you.
WESLEY: I'll be back soon.
PICARD: Of course. Wesley. You remember I was always proud of you.

[Cavern]
WESLEY: It worked!

[Cave]
WESLEY: Captain? Captain Picard? Wake up.
WESLEY: Captain?
CRUSHER: Wesley? Wesley. Wesley!
WESLEY: Mom?
CRUSHER: Yes.
WESLEY: Oh, mom.
CRUSHER: Wesley, thank God!
WESLEY: I am so happy to see you.
CRUSHER: You're okay. Come on.
WESLEY: How did you find us?
CRUSHER: We found the wreckage, and the arrow which indicated your direction. We'll take Wesley by stretcher as well.
WESLEY: No, I can walk.
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: We're taking you back to the Enterprise. We've stabilized your vital signs. All right, let's go now.
PICARD: One moment. Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What are you doing in such a filthy uniform?
WESLEY: You don't look so ship-shape yourself, sir.
PICARD: Wesley, you will be missed.

[Troi's office]
BROOKS: It's been five months since Marc's accident. I haven't missed a single hour of my duties. I volunteered for extra time in the nursery. My language studies are better than they've ever been. Somebody else might have given in, but I didn't.
TROI: Given in to what?
BROOKS: Death is a normal part of life. Maybe some of us are better at facing that than others.
TROI: Maybe some of us aren't facing it at all.
BROOKS: What do you mean?
TROI: Recovery from a great loss involves a great deal of pain. If we try to avoid that pain, we can make it harder on ourselves in the long run.
BROOKS: But I feel fine.
TROI: Today would have been your husband's thirty eighth birthday.
BROOKS: You keep excellent records, Deanna. Last night. I dreamt Marc was with me, celebrating. I was so glad that this nonsense was finally over. Then I woke up. Alone. And I knew that he was dead. For the first time, I knew it. I looked around for anything that belonged to him. Anything. I forgot that after the funeral I told them to take it all away. What in the world was I thinking?
TROI: They didn't take everything away.
BROOKS: How did you know?

[Bridge]
PICARD: An ancient trail along the Kabul River in the Himalayas. It's a wonderful program. Will, it would do you good to have a little fresh holodeck air.
RIKER: I think my horsemanship is a little rusty for the Himalayas. Thanks anyway.
PICARD: Nonsense. We program an appropriately docile steed
WORF: Captain. Sensors indicate a vast field of
PICARD: Of what, Lieutenant?
WORF: It's gone. But something did appear directly in our path.
ALLENBY: Deflector shields are not encountering elevated levels of interstellar matter.
RIKER: A sensor echo, Data?
DATA: Uncertain. I have no unusual readings, Commander.

[Troi's office]
BROOKS: I promise I'll come by to see you tomorrow. Deanna, are you alright?
TROI: What? What?
BROOKS: You faded out there for a second.
TROI: Oh. No, no, I'm fine. I'm just very tired, that's all. Will I see you tomorrow?
BROOKS: Tomorrow. Thank you, Deanna.

[Bridge]
DATA: An aggregate field of plane-polarized objects has just appeared. And disappeared.
RIKER: Recommend we run a diagnostic on the forward sensor array. We don't want a ghost tailing us all the way to T'lli Beta.
WORF: I'm not convinced it is a ghost. There may be something there, Commander.
PICARD: Ensign Allenby, full stop.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Let's investigate both possibilities.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44356.9. Sensor diagnostics have been completed and indicate that all systems are normal. There remains no explanation for the images which appeared in our path.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have completed another full scan of the area, sir. There is no further indication of the anomaly.
PICARD: Ensign, prepare to resume course to T'lli Beta. Mister Data, what velocity would put us back on schedule?
DATA: A resumption of our present course at warp six will place us in the T'lli Beta system in six days, thirteen hours, forty seven minutes.
RIKER: What, no seconds?
DATA: I have discovered, sir, a certain level of impatience when I calculate a lengthy time interval to the nearest second. However, if you wish
RIKER: No, no. Minutes is fine.
PICARD: Stand ready at warp six, Ensign.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. Geordi, what the hell happened?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Checking. Looks like the field collapsed before we could enter warp.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Recommend full stop while I check it out.
PICARD: Back to full stop, Ensign.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir.
DATA: All decks reporting minor injuries only.
PICARD: Damage?
DATA: None, sir.
WORF: Weapons and shields normal.
RIKER: Go to yellow alert.
ALLENBY: Captain, we've started moving again. Something is pulling us.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Troi to Doctor Crusher.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Yes, Deanna?
TROI (voiceover): Beverly

[Troi's office]
TROI: I'm feeling very dizzy.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Did you hit your head?
TROI: I'm not sure. I'm not sure what happened.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Lie down, breathe deeply and stay calm. I'm getting calls from all over the ship. I'll be there as quickly as I can.

[Bridge]
ALLENBY: New heading confirmed. Zero two five mark two seven three. Speed is holding at one tenth impulse.
RIKER: Whatever's pulling us sure isn't in a hurry.
PICARD: Picard to La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: If your engines are functioning we'll attempt to break free.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Everything down here seems normal enough, sir, but I suggest we take it a bit slower this time.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, bring us around ninety degrees to starboard.
ALLENBY: New course laid in at ninety degrees to starboard.
PICARD: One quarter impulse, engage.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir. Nothing, Captain. Speed and course are unaffected.
PICARD: One half impulse.
ALLENBY: No change.
PICARD: Full impulse. Rotate heading in five degree increments.
ALLENBY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: There's nothing wrong down here. The engines are fine.

[Bridge]
DATA: Integrity field stress exceeding eighty two million kilodynes. Recommend immediate shutdown, sir.
PICARD: Make it so, Ensign.
ALLENBY: All engines down. We're still being pulled. Same heading, same speed.

[Troi's office]
CRUSHER: I got here as quickly as I could. I've got a Sickbay filled with headaches. How are you?
TROI: Well, when I first called you I was feeling intense pain. Now it's gone, but I'm feeling a bit foggy.
CRUSHER: I'd like to take you to Sickbay and run an inner nuncial series. Can you walk?
RIKER (voiceover): All senior staff report to the Observation Lounge.
CRUSHER: Are you up to that?
TROI: I think so.
CRUSHER: What is it?
TROI: Nothing. Nothing, I'm fine.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Could it be some sort of tractor beam?
DATA: No other ship is indicated.
PICARD: Mister Worf, what is your analysis?
WORF: Tactical sensor readings are indeterminant.
LAFORGE: They don't even give us enough for an educated guess.
RIKER: And yet all sensors are operating properly.
PICARD: Can there be an intelligence at work here? Counselor, do you sense a lifeform out there?
TROI: No, I don't think so. No. There's nothing. Nothing. I sense nothing.
PICARD: It's alright, Counselor. Perhaps there's nothing out there to sense.
DATA: Indeed, there are many races that are not empathically detectable. The Breen, the Ferengi, the
TROI: No, you don't understand. I don't sense anything. Not out there, not in here. All of you, you're all blank to me.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: No indication of a concussion or a blow to the head. Just a pattern of unresponsive neural cells throughout the cerebellum and cerebral cortex.
TROI: Unresponsive?
CRUSHER: There's brain damage. How serious, I can't tell yet.
TROI: But I feel perfectly fine otherwise.
RIKER: Can you treat it?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure. I have to review the database on Betazoid neurophysiology.
TROI: The Betazoid brain has a remarkable ability to heal itself. This condition could just reverse itself time.
CRUSHER: It might. But you are half human. That changes the map a little. I don't want to offer you any false hopes.
TROI: It's just hope, Beverly. Not false hope.
RIKER: What would cause something like this? Because it started at the same time we encountered the anomaly.
CRUSHER: There may be a connection. I don't know. If you were anyone else, you know the first thing I'd do? I'd send you to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Well, then I have an advantage, don't I? I see her quite often.
CRUSHER: Deanna, it's no different than one of us suddenly going blind.
TROI: You don't have to tell me, Beverly. I understand the psychology.
CRUSHER: You may understand it but you've never had to live with it.
TROI: I may be perfectly fine by tomorrow.
CRUSHER: And you may not. Now, I'll do my homework. I'll see what I can do to regenerate those cells. In the meantime, I want you to talk to someone. There are several people on board who have degrees in psychology, who are qualified therapists.
TROI: Okay, fine, if I need to. Right now, I just want to go back to work.
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: If there are no medical objections?
CRUSHER: No medical objections.
TROI: Thank you, Beverly. Will.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Come in.
RIKER: I don't have a psychology degree, but if you'd like to talk?
TROI: You know what the worst part of this is? And I've seen it happen to so many patients.
RIKER: What?
TROI: The way other people change. How they start to treat you differently. They walk on eggshells around you. Sometimes they avoid you altogether. Sometimes they become overbearing, reach out a helping hand to the blind woman.
RIKER: I'm sorry if I
TROI: I will not be treated that way!
RIKER: Hey! Imzadi.
TROI: Oh, please.
RIKER: Deanna, I've never seen you quite so scared.
TROI: I'm fine. If I get better, I get better. If I don't, I'll adapt. Life goes on.
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: I really have to finish this. I have some appointments this afternoon.

[Engineering]
DATA: Probe launch successful. Telemetry transmissions are being received.
LAFORGE: Okay, let's see what we've got. Nothing unusual here. The same reading as the ship sensors.
DATA: Expanding analysis parameters. Including Bayesian functions, broad EM and subspace spectrum polling.
LAFORGE: No change.
DATA: I am adding virtual particle trajectories.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that?
DATA: Unknown. I am attempting to analyze motion pattern. Results still inconclusive.
LAFORGE: Last time I saw anything that looked like that, I was skin-diving off the coral reefs at Bracas Five.

[Troi's office]
TROI: You said you woke up a new woman this morning.
BROOKS: That's how I feel.
TROI: Tell me about her, this new woman.
BROOKS: She's not holding anything back any more.
TROI: She's not?
BROOKS: I let it all out last night. I cried for two hours. I realized that I had never accepted the loss of my husband. I worked hard, I kept busy, I did everything to pretend it never happened.
TROI: And you feel different now?
BROOKS: Completely.
TROI: Can I share something important with you?
BROOKS: Of course.
TROI: I've temporarily lost my empathic sense. It's kind of like having one hand tied behind your back.
BROOKS: I'm so sorry. Do you want me to come back?
TROI: No, no, I'm fine. It's just I feel before we continue it's important you know that. Okay?
BROOKS: All right.
TROI: Because I can't tell how you're feeling this morning, but it seems to me that one night of crying can't make up for months of denial.
BROOKS: No. You're wrong. I feel better today than I have in ages. You're absolutely wrong, Deanna.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The probe's point of view reveals that the objects exist entirely in two dimensions, on a single plane.
LAFORGE: They have length and width, but not height. Virtually flat.
DATA: That is why the ship's forward sensors did not detect them initially. We were looking at them along their edge. There was no surface to read. I will illustrate.
PICARD: Are they a lifeform?
DATA: The movement pattern within the cluster is not a naturally occurring phenomenon in the Newtonian sense. They appear to be alive.
RIKER: Can you explain why they're pulling us along with them?
LAFORGE: Somehow, they're able to polarize the graviton field as they move about. We're caught in the wake.
RIKER: How do we get out of it?
LAFORGE: Best idea for now is to try a controlled overload of the warp drive. Jump directly to warp six. The laws of a three-dimensional universe say it should work. Don't know about a two-dimensional universe though.
PICARD: Fascinating. So many questions. How can a two-dimensional entity have access to a three-dimensional universe? And are they aware of us? Number One, if we can put off the T'lli Betans, I would like to investigate this further as soon as we're free of the graviton field.
LAFORGE: It's a shame we can't tell if they're sentient.
TROI: What do you mean by that? I'm doing the best that I can.
PICARD: No one suggested otherwise, Counselor. Mister Data, try to isolate any signal patterns from the cluster. Perhaps there'll be a basis for communication. Mister La Forge, we'll attempt your warp jump as soon as you're prepared. That'll be all. Counselor

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: How are you feeling?
TROI: Beverly, I can't do my job. I'm absolutely lost. You have to do something.
CRUSHER: I cross-referenced your scan results with the baseline files in the computer. Nothing helpful has turned up. And so far the lab work is inconclusive.
TROI: Inconclusive. What does that mean?
CRUSHER: It means there is nothing I can do now. I am still trying.
TROI: How do you people live like this?
CRUSHER: We get by pretty well, actually. And so will you, in time.
TROI: You have no idea. No idea what this is like. How can you know what it's like to lose something you never had?
CRUSHER: I don't claim to.
TROI: And yet you're telling me I'm supposed to get used to it.
CRUSHER: If our positions were reversed, what would you tell me?
TROI: If our positions were reversed, I wouldn't have been in here treating skinned elbows while you were lying passed out on your office floor. I'd have been there a lot sooner. Perhaps in time to prevent this from ever happening!

[Ready room]
TROI: I've been working with Ensign Brooks since the death of her husband. She's avoided the reality of what happened, denied it to herself, and I realize I've been doing the same thing about my condition.
PICARD: That's perfectly understandable.
TROI: It's time I accept the truth, Captain, and resign as ship's counselor.
PICARD: Resign?
TROI: I can no longer fulfill my obligations. What other option is there?
PICARD: Deanna, I've been fortunate to have access to your Betazoid abilities. Most starship captains have to be content with a human counselor. Empathic awareness is not a requirement of your position.
TROI: It is for me.
PICARD: I'm sure that after a while you'll be able to adjust. They say when one loses a sense, the other senses become stronger to compensate. A blind man develops better hearing.
TROI: With all due respect, Captain, you don't know what you're talking about. That is a common belief with no scientific basis, no doubt created by normal people who felt uncomfortable around the disabled. I am disabled, and I'm telling you I cannot perform my duties.
PICARD: There was a teacher of mine at the Academy who had been confined to a wheelchair since birth. She was a woman
TROI: Captain, spare me the inspirational anecdote and just accept my resignation.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
TROI: I really would rather be alone right now.
RIKER: Too bad.
TROI: Is this how you handle all of your personnel problems?
RIKER: Sure. You'd be surprised how far a hug goes with Geordi, or Worf.
TROI: Will, I don't know what to do.
RIKER: So you resign? You walk away from all the people who care about you?
TROI: I look around me and all I see are surfaces without depth. Colorless. Hollow. Nothing seems real.
RIKER: I'm real.
TROI: No, you're not. You're a projection, with no more substance to me than a character on the holodeck.
RIKER: I don't believe that.
TROI: You have no idea how frightening it is to just be here without sensing you, without sharing your feelings.
RIKER: That's it, isn't it? We're on equal footing now.
TROI: What?
RIKER: You always had an advantage. A little bit of control of every situation. That must have been a very safe position to be in. To be honest, I'd always thought there was something a little too aristocratic about your Betazoid heritage. As if your human side wasn't quite good enough for you.
TROI: That isn't true.
RIKER: Isn't it?
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We are ready to attempt a controlled overload jump to warp six.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Acknowledged. I'm on my way to the Bridge. I'll check in on you later.
TROI: Really, you don't have to.
RIKER: I will check in on you later.

[Bridge]
ALLENBY: Setting a new course at optimal shearing angle. Bearing two one seven mark two zero three.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engaging impulse

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engines now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, go to warp.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Status?
ALLENBY: Unchanged. We have not broken free of the graviton field.
DATA: Integrity-field pressure has increased by two hundred seventeen percent, Captain.
COMPUTER: Warning. Differential stress will exceed upper limit in fifteen seconds.
PICARD: Disengage all engines.

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Warning. Differential stress will exceed upper
LAFORGE: Engines disengaged, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report, La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): The energy we wanted to transfer to the nacelles

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Was absorbed by the graviton wake instead. It set up a torsional wave that rebounded back to the ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): We're lucky the hull is still in one piece.
PICARD: This little nuisance is beginning to lose its fascination.
DATA: Sir, during our attempt to break away, I recorded a momentary alteration of the movement pattern within the cluster.
RIKER: You think we got their attention, Data?
DATA: Perhaps, but just for an instant. The pattern immediately returned to its previous dynamic.
PICARD: Follow up on it, Mister Data. Input your observations into the Universal Translator.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Perhaps the movements themselves are an attempt at communication.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: More tea? I didn't mean to startle you.
TROI: That's alright. I'm getting used to it.
GUINAN: May I?
TROI: Sure.
GUINAN: Are you really getting used to it?
TROI: No.
GUINAN: Do you want to talk about it?
TROI: No.
GUINAN: Good. I get so tired of people coming in with their problems. They come in, they want a shoulder to cry on, and generally it turns out to be mine.
TROI: You'd make a good counselor.
GUINAN: I think so too. So I'm going to talk to Picard about it.
TROI: About what? You becoming counselor?
GUINAN: Well, yes, you're leaving. That means there won't be a counselor on board, and I suppose I'm going to have a very long line at that bar. It would be nice to have a nice office, too.
TROI: It's more than just letting them cry on your shoulder. It takes an enormous commitment.
GUINAN: I can do that.
TROI: Guinan, people come to you to talk about things they want to reveal. As ship's counselor, you have to get them to talk about things they don't want to reveal.
GUINAN: I could do that too.
TROI: What are you? You don't really want to be ship's counselor.
GUINAN: What would make you say that?
TROI: I just know you're not serious.
GUINAN: Have I given you any indication that I might not serious?
TROI: Not really, but
GUINAN: Then how do you know? Are your empathic abilities coming back?
TROI: No. I suppose it's just instinctive. I get it. You're trying to make me see that I have other abilities to draw on. Human intuition, instincts. Guinan, those skills only develop after years of experience. It's not that easy.
GUINAN: No one said it was easy. It's much harder than you think. Human intuition and instinct are not always right, but they do make life interesting.
TROI: So I'm discovering.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Problem, Data?
DATA: Yes, Commander. Sensors are detecting highly accelerated interstellar gasses.
RIKER: Suggesting?
DATA: Uncertain, sir. The phenomenon is within visual range.
RIKER: On screen. Magnify.
DATA: It appears to be a cosmic string fragment. Only one hundred seven kilometers long.
ALLENBY: A cosmic string?
RIKER: No wider than a proton but with gravitational fields as powerful as a black hole.
DATA: The two-dimensional beings seem to be caught in the gravitational pull of the string. Their course is taking them directly toward it.
RIKER: And us right along with them.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44359.5. What began as a curious inconvenience has turned into a serious threat. At current speed, the two-dimensional beings and the Enterprise will be drawn into the cosmic string fragment in seven hours.

[Bridge]
DATA: The entities offer no indication that they are aware of the string fragment, Captain. Their course and speed remain constant.
WORF: Sir, recommend we fire a spread of photon torpedoes into their field.
PICARD: Must we destroy them to save ourselves?
DATA: It is unclear what affect a photon torpedo would have on a two-dimensional beings, sir.
PICARD: Nevertheless.
LAFORGE: Well, we wouldn't necessarily have to fire at them. Half a dozen photon torpedo bursts directly in their path could make them change course.
PICARD: Make it so.
WORF: Torpedoes armed. Fire distribution set. Detonation at seven kilometers ahead of the cluster.
RIKER: Data, launch another probe. Patch the monitor through to the main viewer.
DATA: Probe has been launched. On screen.
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Worf.
WORF: Launching photon torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
DATA: There is no change in the graviton field. The torpedoes are having no effect, sir.
PICARD: Fire another volley directly into their field, Mister Worf.
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
DATA: Matter-antimatter explosions appear to be ineffective, sir.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Come in. Janet. Oh, I'm sorry, I meant to cancel your appointment today. Actually, I'm resigning as Ship's Counselor.
BROOKS: Why?
TROI: I think it was fairly clear during your last appointment. It was obviously non productive. I couldn't sense what you were feeling.
BROOKS: Deanna, you were right about me. I had to go back and look at what I was doing, see why I was trying to convince myself and you that I was a new woman. You made me realize I was doing exactly the same thing to myself as I was before. Trying to hide from the pain. Maybe you couldn't sense what I was feeling, but you helped.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Sit down, please. Our situation has become critical. The cluster remains completely unresponsive. We have not been able to alter its course toward the cosmic string fragment.
TROI: How much time do we have?
PICARD: Less than five hours. Which is why I have called you.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: All that remains is the possibility of communication. There might be some way that we can warn them of their impending destruction.
TROI: I thought Data had already tried to establish communications through the universal translator.
PICARD: He has tried every technical means at our disposal to reach them.
TROI: I wish I knew how to help, Captain, but under the circumstances
PICARD: If there is a psychology to these creatures, we must discover it. If there is an explanation for their behavior, we must know what it is. Even in your current condition, you are the most qualified person aboard this ship to assist. Data is in Observation attempting to formulate a strategy. I want you to join him. Deanna, we need you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. If our speed and course remain unchanged, in one hour the Enterprise will be torn apart by the gravitational forces of the cosmic string fragment.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Are your signals reaching them?
DATA: Possibly. However, the beings may perceive them as negligible noise rather than an attempt at communication.
TROI: Is there any evidence at all that they're sentient?
DATA: Negative. The nature of their movement suggests a simple order of intelligence.
TROI: I'm sorry, Data. I don't seem to be much help without my empathic abilities. I just don't know how to draw on my human instinct.
DATA: As I have no human instinct per se, I cannot advise you, Counselor.
TROI: Right now, I feel as two-dimensional as our friends out there. In the universe but barely aware of it. Just trying to survive on instinct. Data, what if they're simply acting instinctively? There are inherent, inborn forces in every species. What they need, what they fear. We have to discover what drives this species.
DATA: I do not believe there is any way we can know for certain, Counselor.
TROI: We can speculate on the available evidence.
DATA: The only evidence we have at present is the brief interruption in their movement pattern during our last attempt to break away.
TROI: Which may suggest some kind of awareness of our presence.
DATA: Otherwise their course and speed have been constant.
TROI: On a straight line to the cosmic string. You're convinced the string's gravitation is pulling them in?
DATA: Because the cluster is two-dimensional, I do not have enough direct evidence to support that assumption. However, it is the most reasonable hypothesis.
TROI: Why?
DATA: It is unlikely they would intentionally move toward a destructive force.
TROI: Moths fly toward a flame. Horses sometimes run into a burning barn. Data, don't you see? We've been thinking in three dimensions. We have to get two-dimensional.
DATA: Pardon me?
TROI: Subspace signals, photon torpedoes, nothing's had an impact. It is reasonable to wonder if a gravitational pull, even as strong as a cosmic string's, would affect them.
DATA: Please continue.
TROI: What if they've chosen a course to the cosmic string? A case of pure stimulus response, driven by instinct, just like the moth to a flame.

[Bridge]
DATA: If Counselor Troi's supposition is correct, a replica of the string projected behind the cluster could induce them to reverse course, disrupting the graviton wake long enough for us to escape.
PICARD: How do you simulate a cosmic string? It has the gravitational force of a hundred stars.
DATA: I do not suggest simulating the gravitational field of the string fragment, rather the string's vibration.
RIKER: Vibration? We're not talking about a violin, Data.
LAFORGE: No, Data's right. The principle is still the same. A cosmic string emanates a characteristic set of subspace frequencies as atomic particles decay along its event horizon. I could use the ship's parabolic dish to amplify and reflect those frequencies back toward the cluster. The Enterprise itself would echo the cosmic string.
PICARD: How much time do we have, Mister Worf?
WORF: Twenty three minutes, sir.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Frequency-scan detectors engaged.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Receiving.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, we're picking up frequencies across the entire electromagnetic and lower subspace spectrum. Trying to isolate. Data, can you focus the reflector field for me?
DATA (voiceover): Stand by.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am differentiating particle-emission signatures now.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Good. Good, that's doing it. Patterns are converging.

[Bridge]
ALLENBY: Same course, same speed. No change, sir.
WORF: We are beginning to encounter the gravitational effects of the string. Impact is in four minutes.
DATA: Sir, shear force turbulence is impairing our ability to create an accurate simulation.
RIKER: Geordi, fire up the impulse engines. Activate the

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Ship's stabilizers.
LAFORGE: Stabilizers on.

[Bridge]
DATA: Electromagnetic and subspace wave fronts approaching synchronization.
WORF: Three minutes to impact.
RIKER: Status?
ALLENBY: The cluster is unaffected. Same course, same speed.
PICARD: Let's try turning up the volume. Increase the intensity, Mister Data.
DATA: Increasing by fifty percent.
ALLENBY: They're slowing.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Graviton-wake field collapsing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, get us out of here.
LAFORGE (voiceover): With pleasure, sir.
ALLENBY: The beings have resumed their course into the string. Three seconds to impact.
TROI: It's all right. They're home. We were wrong. The cosmic string it was never dangerous to them. It was the one place in the galaxy they most wanted to be.
RIKER: Deanna?
TROI: Yes. I sensed it.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Such overwhelming intensity of emotion. When we first encountered them, it must have been more than my senses could process.
RIKER: A short circuit.
TROI: Something like that. Oh, Beverly.
CRUSHER: Apology accepted. Therapists are always the worst patients. Except for doctors, of course. Come by and see me in my office later, okay?
TROI: I was so awful to her.
GUINAN: You were just being human.
TROI: I never fully appreciated how difficult and how rewarding it is to be human, but I had a lot of help. Thanks.
GUINAN: Now, is that counselor position is still open aboard ship?
TROI: It's been taken.
GUINAN: I just thought I'd ask. Better hours. Excuse me.
TROI: And you. Thank you for making me face my other half.
RIKER: Frightening, isn't it?
TROI: A little. You were right, though. There is something to be learned when you're not in control of every situation.
RIKER: Welcome to the human race.
TROI: By the way. The next time you call me aristocratic.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): In reference to your most recent letter, I agree that your study lacks sufficient primary source information on my programming and operation. Therefore, in response to your request, this correspondence will include a complete record of my activities during a normal day, with particular emphasis on my perceptions of friendship.
DATA: Commander Riker, you are fifteen minutes early.
RIKER: Well, it's a very special day. I thought the father of the bride would enjoy being relieved early on the wedding day.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Nervous?
DATA: I cannot become nervous, sir. However, I do sense a certain anticipation regarding my role in the wedding.
RIKER: Anything to report?
DATA: All systems normal, sir. Sickbay reports that Lieutenant Juarez went into labor at zero four hundred hours. We remain at station awaiting the arrival of Starship Zhukov and guest quarters have been prepared for Ambassador T'Pel.
RIKER: Very well. I have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Begin day watch.
DATA (voiceover): Initially, Commander Maddox, I found it difficult to maintain friendships, since human emotions are often puzzling to me.

[Corridor]
DATA (voiceover): Eventually, I developed a program enabling me to predict human emotional responses to specific actions.

[Keiko's quarters]
KEIKO: Come in.
DATA: It is time for the wedding rehearsal.
KEIKO: I know. Data, I've decided not to go through with it.
DATA: You do not wish to rehearse?
KEIKO: No, I'm calling off the wedding.
DATA: May I ask why?
KEIKO: It's just the right thing to do.
DATA: Have your feelings for Chief O'Brien changed?
KEIKO: I'm supposed to be getting married, Data. I should be happy, but I'm not. I just feel this weight pressing down on me.
DATA: Will canceling the wedding make you happy?
KEIKO: Yes. He'll probably be just as relieved as I am. Data, you introduced us to each other. You mean a lot to both of us. I would really appreciate it if you would tell Miles for me.
DATA: If you wish.

[Ten Forward]
DATA (voiceover): My friend Chief O'Brien often says that above all else, he wants to make Keiko happy. Since canceling the wedding will make her happy, I must conclude the Chief will be pleased at her decision.
DATA: I have good news.
O'BRIEN: Oh?
DATA: Keiko has made a decision designed to increase her happiness. She has canceled the wedding.
O'BRIEN: She what? Canceled the wedding? Today? Without even a word? Of all the childish, selfish, irresponsible things to do!
LAFORGE: Next time, maybe I should break the good news.
DATA (voiceover): Commander Maddox, it would appear that my program designed to predict the emotional responses needs adjustment. Second Officers personal log, supplemental. This is the one thousand five hundred fiftieth day since the Enterprise was commissioned. Besides the arrival of Ambassador T'Pel, other events occurring today include four birthdays, two personnel transfers, a celebration of the Hindu Festival of Lights, two chess tournaments, one secondary school play, and four promotions. Overall, an ordinary day.

[Transporter room]
TECHNICIAN: The Zhukov is ready for transport, sir.
DATA: Energize.
DATA: Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Ambassador.
T'PEL: I would meet with your Captain.

[Turbolift]
DATA (voiceover): Sine I am not affected by emotional considerations, I am closer to being Vulcan than human. However, while their devotion to logic does have a certain appeal, I find their stark philosophy to be somewhat limited.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Ambassador T'Pel.
T'PEL: I come to serve.
PICARD: Your service honors us. This is my first officer, Commander William Riker.
T'PEL: Leave us, please.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Charming woman.
DATA (voiceover): The tone of Commander Riker's voice makes me suspect that he is not serious about finding Ambassador T'Pel charming. My experience suggests that in fact he may mean the exact opposite of what he says. irony is a form of expression I have not yet been able to master.

[Hairdresser's salon]
V'SAL: You don't need a haircut. You were just in here last week.
LAFORGE: Hey, if you'd done it right the first time I wouldn't be back here so soon.
V'SAL: I know you want to look beautiful, but I'm just a barber, not a miracle worker.
LAFORGE: Just try to keep my ears on straight today, all right?
DATA (voiceover): Friendly insults and jibes, another form of human speech that I am attempting to master, in this case with the help of Commander Geordi La Forge.
LAFORGE: Hi Data.
DATA (voiceover): I consider Geordi to be my best friend.
LAFORGE: Here for a trim?
DATA: My hair does not require trimming, you lunkhead.
LAFORGE: What?
DATA: My hair does not require trimming
LAFORGE: Lunkhead?
DATA: I am experimenting with friendly jibes and insults. It was not meant as a serious disparagement.
LAFORGE: Well, just don't try it on the Captain.
DATA: No. Geordi, I am still confused by Chief O'Brien's reaction this morning.
LAFORGE: Yeah. He was just surprised, Data. He didn't mean to blow up like that. He knows that Keiko probably doesn't want to call off the marriage. She's just getting cold feet.
DATA: Cold feet? Jitters. A nervous reaction to an impending event of great importance.
LAFORGE: Right. Don't worry, everything's going to be fine. She'll change her mind again.
DATA: She will?
LAFORGE: Absolutely.
DATA: So you believe the wedding will still proceed?
LAFORGE: Trust me, they're going to get married. So you'd better find a gift.

[Replicator center]
DATA (voiceover): I find Lieutenant Worf to be what is called a kindred spirit. We were both orphans rescued by Starfleet officers. In many ways, we are both still outsiders in human society.
DATA: Are you here to find a wedding gift?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: I would appreciate your help in selecting an appropriate item.
WORF: Of course. I have attended human weddings before.
WORF: Hold.
DATA: This is a traditional gift?
WORF: Yes, my adoptive parents often give these things at family weddings. A human custom.
WORF: Hold.
DATA: It is my understanding that the item selected should reflect the personality of whoever is giving it. This does not remind me of you. Have you ever been an actual participant in a human wedding?
WORF: No.
DATA: You would not consider it to be an honor?
WORF: An honor, perhaps. But human bonding rituals often involve a great deal of talking and dancing and crying.
DATA: Dancing.

[Sickbay]
DATA (voiceover): I am rarely in need of Doctor Beverly Crusher's professional services as my bio-mechanical maintenance program is self sufficient. But I often observe as she practices medicine on others and have learned a great deal about human interaction from her.
DATA: Doctor, may I ask a favor of you?
CRUSHER: Of course, Data.
DATA: Would you teach me how to dance?

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: What?
DATA: I would like to learn how to dance.
CRUSHER: Why me?
DATA: It was in your service record. Awarded first prize tap and jazz competition, Saint Louis Academy.
CRUSHER: Okay, okay.
DATA: Have I said something to upset you?
CRUSHER: It's just that, that was a long time ago, and I don't want to be known as the dancing doctor. Again.
DATA: Then your answer is no.
CRUSHER: All right. But let's keep this between you and me.
DATA: Of course, Doctor.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Data, please report to the Bridge.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, I want a tactical projection of possible future Romulan deployments along the Neutral Zone. Access all Federation records on the subject and report to my Ready Room.
DATA: Captain, is there a specific area you wish me to study?
PICARD: No. Ambassador. Number One, set a course one three zero mark two four six, warp seven.
RIKER: That will take us very close to the Neutral Zone, Captain.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Number One. Proceed.
RIKER: Lay in the course.
DATA (voiceover): It is fortunate that I am able to perform my duties without emotional distractions. If that were not the case, a sudden course correction toward the Neutral Zone would make me very nervous.
DATA (voiceover): Personal Log, supplemental. Commander Maddox, there are still many dynamics of social interaction which I do not understand.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Mister Data, based on your analysis, what is the current Romulan strategy behind the deployment of their ships in this sector?
DATA: Their ships are deployed to support a policy of confrontation designed to test Federation defenses along the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Do you predict any change in the near future?
DATA: I project a ninety percent probability that they will continue to support that policy.
PICARD: Is there any indication of a more conciliatory attitude on their part?
DATA: No, sir.
T'PEL: Caution is clearly called for, Captain. However, the mission must proceed as planned.
PICARD: Starfleet Command agrees with you, but I would feel better if you would consent to an escort or
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Feline supplement seventy four.
DATA: Computer, run fluidic sensor diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. All systems functioning within normal parameters.
DATA: Come in.
O'BRIEN: Am I intruding, Commander?
DATA: No. Would you care to sit down?
DATA (voiceover): When one of my friends is distraught, I have learnt that the thoughtful thing to do is to attempt to make him feel more comfortable.
DATA: May I offer you some refreshment, Chief?
O'BRIEN: No, thank you, sir. First of all I'd like to apologize for this morning in Ten Forward
DATA: There is no need to apologize. I was not offended. Would you like a pillow or a more comfortable chair to sit upon?
O'BRIEN: No, sir. Thank you, sir.
DATA: Perhaps you would like some music? Brahms? Aurelia?
O'BRIEN: No, really, sir I'm fine. I came to ask for your help. It's about Keiko. I'd like you to talk to her. Convince her to go through with the wedding.
DATA: Would Counselor Troi not be a more appropriate choice to speak with Keiko?
O'BRIEN: She already has. It didn't help. You've known her longer than I have. I just thought she might listen to you. She won't even talk to me
DATA: I do not know what to say to her.
O'BRIEN: Just talk with her. Make her see reason. She's going off half-cocked, not thinking this through. You've worked with her for a long time. She respects your opinion.
DATA: Perhaps she has not fully analyzed her decision. I will try.
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir. I won't forget this.
DATA (voiceover): Commander Maddox, I noted that Keiko was quite calm and rational when she informed me of her decision this morning. Therefore, I can predict that she will respond to an objective analysis of the situation based on the available facts. It is fortunate that she has not let emotional considerations cloud her judgment. It should make my task much simpler.

[Arboretum]
KEIKO: What?
DATA: I believe you made an incorrect analysis of the facts at hand.
KEIKO: What do you mean?
DATA: You do not seem happy.
KEIKO: Well
DATA: Your decision was based on the assumption that canceling the wedding would bring you happiness. This has proved to be incorrect.
KEIKO: Data, it's not that simple.
DATA: Since your action did not produce the desired results, the only advisable solution should be to re-examine your decision making process, and look for errors.
KEIKO: I knew what I was doing. It's my decision.
DATA: That fact is not in dispute. However, you may have acted with undue haste and in doing so, unintentionally hurt Chief O'Brien's feelings.
KEIKO: I did what I had to! Why are you doing this? I thought you were my friend.
DATA: I am your friend.
KEIKO: Then leave me alone.
DATA: If I have offended.
KEIKO: Just leave me alone.
DATA (voiceover): It is clear that I need guidance to resolve this situation. Counselor Troi's advice should be useful.

[Troi's office]
DATA (voiceover): In many ways, Deanna Troi is the friend that I understand the least. Her life and her duties are predicated on her understanding and perception of emotions. Since I have none, no doubt she finds me as much of a mystery as I find her.
DATA: Chief O'Brien talks to me. Keiko talks to you. Why do they not talk to each other?
TROI: That's a good question, Data. I wish I had a good answer for you. Perhaps when they're ready, they will.
DATA: Many aspects of this situation are puzzling to me. I have been studying various texts on the subject of marriage, but I have not found a suitable guide.
TROI: A suitable guide for what?
DATA: In an effort to be helpful, I am attempting to calculate the variables involved in a successful marriage.
TROI: Good luck.
DATA: There are many opinions. On Galvin Five, a marriage is considered successful only if children are produced within a year of the wedding. Andorian marriages require groups of four people unless
TROI: Data, would you like my advice on how to help them? Don't. This is something they have to work out for themselves.
DATA: But I am their friend. Should I not stand with them in a time of difficulty?
TROI: There are many ways to help a friend, and sometimes the best way is to leave them alone.
DATA: Do you believe it to be the right decision for them to marry?
TROI: I don't know. They're very much in love, but sometimes that isn't enough. Marriage is an agreement to share who you are with someone else. To spend your lives together. To grow old together.
DATA: To grow old together? That is an integral component of marriage?
TROI: Usually. Why do you ask?
DATA: Although I am an android, I have not excluded the possibility that I, too, may someday marry.
TROI: Data, I had no idea you'd thought about getting married.
DATA: I believe I have much to offer a potential mate. However, we cannot grow old together because I will not grow old.
TROI: Data, you do have a lot to offer.
T'PEL (voiceover): Commander Data, this is Ambassador T'Pel. Please report to my quarters.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[T'Pel's quarters]
T'PEL: Enter.
T'PEL: You have priority three clearance aboard the Enterprise?
DATA: That is correct, Ambassador.
T'PEL: I require information on this ship's defense and navigational systems. Access code kappa alpha four six zero one seven zero four.
DATA: The code is valid.
T'PEL: What is the field strength of the ship's deflector shields at maximum output?
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your request?
T'PEL: I require the information.
DATA: I have the same safeguards as the ship's computer. Therefore, I must report any inquiry regarding restricted information to the Captain. Your reaction suggests you do not wish the Captain to be informed of your inquiry.
T'PEL: I was not interested in the information. I was curious as to your security safeguards. They appear to be adequate. Cancel the request. You may leave.

[Corridor]
DATA (voiceover): Commander Maddox, I have often wished for the sense that humans call intuition or instinct. Since Vulcans are incapable of lying, I must accept the Ambassador's explanation as the truth, but I would still prefer a gut feeling to back up this conclusion.

[Outside Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Program Crusher four in progress.

[Holodeck dance studio]
CRUSHER: Hi, Data. Well what do you think? It is a recreation of the studio I had my first dance lesson in.
DATA: It appears to be quite suitable, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Let's start with something simple. Stomp. Hop. Try it.
CRUSHER: Again. Good! Good.
DATA: Am I dancing, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Not quite. Stop, Data. Now try this.
DATA: Doctor, perhaps it would be beneficial to show me the final lesson.
CRUSHER: Okay.
CRUSHER: That's great. Watch. Good. Triples. Watch. Stop, Data. And you say you've never done this before? Try this.
CRUSHER: Stop, Data. Not bad. Yeah, not bad.
DATA: Then I have successfully learned to dance?
CRUSHER: I'd say you've picked up the basics.
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I am now prepared to dance at the wedding.
CRUSHER: Wedding?
DATA: Keiko's wedding.
CRUSHER: Data, you never told me this was for the wedding.
DATA: Is that important?
CRUSHER: Well yes. They don't do a lot of tap dancing at weddings.
DATA: Why?
CRUSHER: Well, Data, because, I don't really know why, Look, why don't I just teach you a style of dancing that they will do at the wedding? Computer, run 'Isn't It Romantic'.
CRUSHER: Compared to what we've just doing, this will be simple. Just look up and follow me. One, two, ready, and
CRUSHER: No, Data, wait a minute. Ow! No, no, you're just. Ow! Move slowly. Ow! Ow! Stop music.
DATA: Sorry, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I don't understand, Data. You picked up the tap dancing so quickly.
DATA: I cannot reproduce your performance if I cannot see your feet.
CRUSHER: All right, let's try it again. And this time, watch my feet. Computer, start music. And.
CRUSHER: Now, don't just imitate me. You've got to lead.
DATA: Lead where, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Indicate to your partner where you want her to step.
DATA: And how is that accomplished?
CRUSHER: I'll show you. I'll lead. Now, you'll notice that I don't just repeat the same pattern over and over. I improvise. Now you lead. That's good. Now, look up, Data. Look into my eyes. You're holding me too tight.
DATA: This is a very complex set of variables to coordinate, Doctor.
CRUSHER: You are doing fine. Now, smile. Act like you're enjoying yourself
NURSE (voiceover): Doctor Crusher, please report to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: Is it Lieutenant Juarez?
NURSE (voiceover): Yes, Doctor. Her contractions are now one minute apart.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way. Why don't you program up an artificial dance partner. And don't be afraid to experiment.
DATA: I will. Thank you, Doctor.
DATA: Computer, create dance partner. Female. Begin music.

[Bridge]
RIKER: And just as the headsman swings his ax, the blade is about to fall
DATA (voiceover): Commander Riker's easy going manner and sense of humor is fascinating to me. I believe it to be one reason he is so popular among the crew. It may also be partly responsible for his success in matters of love. There may be a correlation between humor and sex. The need for more research is clearly indicated.
DATA: Commander.
RIKER: Picard to the Bridge. All stop.
HELM: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sir, we have reached the designated coordinates.
PICARD: Hold this position. Long range scan.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a ship in the Neutral Zone. Configuration, Romulan warbird.
PICARD: Yellow alert. Hail the Warbird, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir. They are responding. Text only. We are to proceed to the agreed coordinates.
PICARD: Set course zero three seven mark zero zero five, warp four. Take us into the Neutral Zone, Ensign.
WORF: Captain, the warbird is holding position. In three minutes we will be within phaser range.
PICARD: Red alert. I trust my crew, Ambassador. They will take no provocative action unless I order them.
T'PEL: Hold position on these coordinates.
RIKER: Slow to half impulse.
T'PEL: Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
T'PEL: I am Ambassador T'Pel.
MENDAK (screen): I am Admiral Mendak.
T'PEL: There is no established protocol for a meeting of this nature. The logical course is that I transport aboard your ship and begin the negotiations.
MENDAK (screen): Yes. Captain, I note your defensive systems have been activated.
PICARD: As have yours.
MENDAK (screen): It was not meant as an accusation Indeed, I salute your show of strength. Ambassador, we are honored by your presence. You may transport aboard at your convenience.
T'PEL: The honor is mine.
T'PEL: Have your Transporter room stand by. I will beam to their ship with no further delay.
PICARD: Ambassador, I urge you once more to reconsider. The Enterprise can accommodate a Romulan delegation without sacrificing our security or
T'PEL: Captain Picard, I find your argument illogical. Please carry out my instructions.
PICARD: Picard to Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): O'Brien here.
PICARD: Prepare to transport Ambassador T'Pel to the Romulan ship.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a lock on her signal once she's aboard. At the first sign of trouble I want to be able to bring her back.
WORF: Understood. Transporter activated. Captain!
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Transporter emergency! I'm losing her signal!
WORF: Boosting power to autosequencers.
DATA: Engaging computer override.
RIKER: O'Brien, what happened down there?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I'm losing the pattern. Trying to re establish. I'm sorry, sir. I wasn't able to retrieve the signal. The Ambassador's dead. Second officer's personal log, supplemental. The risks aboard a starship are accepted by all who serve, but I have never failed to observe a deep emotional response to the loss of a comrade. It is at times like this that I greatly miss the ability to share human feelings.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The signal lock wasn't broken, sir. I had just entered the transfer sequence when the Ambassador's pattern began to break up. I tried to switch to emergency manual control, but the pattern deteriorated too quickly and
DATA: Captain, there is no prior record of this type of accident occurring aboard a starship. Backup systems and safeguards are designed to prevent just such an occurrence.
LAFORGE: I can't find any system flaws in the unit, Captain. The Engineering status reports were all normal. None of the backups were activated and the autosequencers were all functioning normally.
PICARD: Any prior malfunctions on this transporter unit?
O'BRIEN: No, sir. In fact, we replaced the transition coils only last week.
RIKER: Could there have been some kind of interference from the Romulans?
O'BRIEN: Nothing that I could see. Their shields were down. There was no power interruption, no subspace bias.
PICARD: I want this unit pulled and its systems checked again. I want a level one diagnostic on all transporters.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: Her molecular structure dissipated instantly once the pattern was lost. There were some organic compounds left on the pad, but there wasn't enough material to do an autopsy.
PICARD: To die on a transporter. Hardly a fitting end for one of the Federation's most honored diplomats.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard. Admiral Mendak is hailing. He wishes to speak with you.

[Bridge]
MENDAK (screen): We're still waiting, Captain. Is there a problem?
PICARD: There's been an accident. Ambassador T'Pel has been killed in a transporter malfunction.
MENDAK (screen): What kind of malfunction?
PICARD: We are still investigating that. As soon as
MENDAK (screen): I should have known the Federation wasn't serious about this conference.
PICARD: Admiral, I assure you. The Federation places the highest priority on this mission and its goal.
MENDAK (screen): Well played, Captain well played. Starfleet opposes normalization of relations with the Romulan Empire, and so you are ordered to create an accident.
PICARD: You're mistaken. I am ready and willing to discuss the establishment of full diplomatic relations under the same terms as Ambassador T'Pel.
MENDAK (screen): A generous offer, since you know we were willing only to negotiate with T'Pel. I salute you again, Captain. It was a maneuver worthy of a Romulan. I suggest we both leave the Neutral Zone before there is another accident.
PICARD: Set course for Federation territory, warp two. Engage. Mister Data, I want you to take charge of this investigation. Study computer logs, sensor information everything. I refuse to believe that this was a simple malfunction.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA (voiceover): Captain Picard was the person who first interested me in the works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have subsequently become a great admirer of the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes and his ability to solve mysteries by careful examination of the available evidence.

[Transporter room]
DATA (voiceover): I have found Holmes' methodology of deductive reasoning to be quite useful. One of his adages is that once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, I don't have time to give you another lesson right now, Data.
DATA: That is not my purpose. I would like to examine the remains of Ambassador T'Pel left on the transporter pad.
CRUSHER: I'm working on the report right now.
DATA: Have you compared the genetic code with the Ambassador's last recorded transporter ID traces?
CRUSHER: No, that's not standard procedure. Why?
DATA: I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without a cause.
CRUSHER: A wild-goose chase? All right. Computer, access the transporter ID trace for Ambassador T'Pel. All right, there's the genetic record of the Ambassador when she beamed aboard the Enterprise. Now, the breakdown of the organic material found on the transporter pad should be identical. Mitochondrial structure fits the general parameters, no change in the nucleotide bases. There's a slight discrepancy in the base pair sequence. Chemically, these are identical. However, the organic sample from the transporter is showing numerous single-bit errors, like replicated material.
DATA: Can you postulate an explanation for the discrepancy?
CRUSHER: I'd say the DNA was either mutated by the transporter during the rematerialization process
DATA: A supposition not supported by the transporter records.
CRUSHER: Or these aren't the remains of the Ambassador.

[Ready room]
DATA: The only abnormality found during my investigation was a temporary increase in the matter to energy signal ratio. Due to the circumstances, I decided to investigate the possibility that a second transporter signal had caused the fluctuation. Although this was highly improbable, it was the only remaining theory.
RIKER: A second transporter signal? From where?
DATA: From the Devoras.
LAFORGE: Romulan transporters operate on a similar subspace frequency to our own. With only minor adjustments, they can be made to simulate our own transporter carrier wave.
PICARD: Are you saying they beamed the Ambassador off our own pad?
DATA: While simultaneously, a small amount of genetically similar material was left in the Ambassador's place.
RIKER: To make us believe she had died as a result of the malfunction'
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, where is the Devoras now?
WORF (voiceover): The ship is still in the Neutral Zone on course zero seven nine mark one two five. Speed, warp two.
RIKER: Heading for home.
DATA (voiceover): The safest and most logical decision in this situation is to contact Starfleet and await further instructions. However, based on past experience, I project only a seventeen percent chance Captain Picard will choose that alternative.
PICARD: Red Alert. All hands stand to battle stations.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Lay in an intercept course for the Romulan ship.
RIKER: Shields up. Load all torpedo bays. Stand by phasers.
PICARD: Warp factor eight. Engage.
PICARD: Open a channel to the Devoras.
WORF: Aye, sir. No response.
DATA: The Devoras is dropping out of warp, sir. Their weapon systems are powering up.
PICARD: Go to impulse power.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: Message coming in, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
MENDAK (screen): Captain, you agreed to leave the Neutral Zone without
PICARD: Admiral Mendak, you have taken our Ambassador captive.
MENDAK (screen): I can assure you there is no one being held captive aboard this ship.
PICARD: We know about the transporter malfunction and that you are holding Ambassador T'Pel.
WORF: Captain, Romulan warbird decloaking to starboard.
MENDAK (screen): I suggest you leave. Now.
PICARD: It is my responsibility to protect the lives of Federation citizens. I will not permit this abduction to succeed.
MENDAK (screen): Captain, you're not going to start an incident which might
PICARD: Admiral Mendak, I will take whatever action is necessary to obtain the return of the Ambassador.
DATA (voiceover): In the game of poker, there is a moment when a player must decide if an opponent is being deceptive or actually holds a winning hand. This decision is based not only on the odds, but also on an appraisal of the man. Is he bluffing or does he have the cards?
MENDAK (screen): Fortunately, Captain, I am not ready to start a war today.
RIKER: T'Pel.
T'PEL (screen): Sub-Commander Selok, actually.
PICARD: A spy.
MENDAK (screen): A patriot, Captain. She has performed her service to the Empire with distinction.
T'PEL (screen): Thank you for your help, Captain.
MENDAK (screen): You see now that we are not holding one of your citizens, and we thank you for returning our sister to us. But my patience has limits. The game is over. I expect you to leave peacefully. Now.
WORF: Captain, long range sensors detect three Romulan warbirds entering this sector.
RIKER: Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you.
PICARD: Reverse course. Take us back to Federation territory, warp six. Engage.

[Arboretum]
DATA: Keiko, I need your help. I have offended you and need to find a way to rectify my mistake. I am not sure what to do.
KEIKO: You haven't offended me.
DATA: I should not have interfered. It would be best if I apologized.
KEIKO: It would be best if you got dressed. For the wedding?
DATA: But
KEIKO: Come here. I have the most beautiful carnation for the father of the bride. Now, don't be nervous.
DATA: I am not nervous. I am confused.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Since the days of the first wooden sailing ships, all captains have enjoyed the happy privilege of joining together two people in the bonds of matrimony. And so it is my honor to unite you, Keiko Ishikawa, and you, Miles Edward O'Brien, together in matrimony
DATA (voiceover): There are still many human emotions I do not fully comprehend. Anger, hatred, revenge. But I am not mystified by the desire to be loved or the need for friendship. These are things I do understand.
PICARD: Congratulations.

[Nursery ward]
DATA: I was looking for Doctor Crusher.
PICARD: Shh.
DATA: The Juarez child?
PICARD: A boy. At the same time we were facing destruction, this small miracle was taking place. Welcome aboard.

[Bridge]
WORF: All systems normal, sir. We are on course for Adelphous Four. Engineering is realigning the main deflector dish. Sickbay reports Lieutenant Umbato broke two ribs during a holodeck exercise, and sensors continue to gather long-range information on the Murasaki quasar.
DATA: Very well. I have the Bridge.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA (voiceover): If being human is not simply a matter of being born flesh and blood, if it is instead a way of thinking, acting and feeling, then I am hopeful that one day I will discover my own humanity.
DATA: Begin night watch.
DATA (voiceover): Until then Commander Maddox, I will continue learning, changing, growing, and trying to become more than what I am.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44429.6. We are on a mapping survey near the Cardassian sector. It has been nearly a year since a peace treaty ended the long conflict between the Federation and Cardassia.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we are nearing the periphery of Sector twenty one five oh three.
PICARD: Be on the lookout for a Cardassian patrol ship, Mister Worf. They should be hailing us soon.
RIKER: Even with a treaty, they're still skittish about protecting their border.
PICARD: Last time I was in this sector, I was on the Stargazer, running at warp speed ahead of a Cardassian warship.
TROI: Running, Captain? You? That's hard to believe.
PICARD: Believe it. I'd been sent to make preliminary overtures to a truce. I'd lowered my shields as a gesture of good will. But the Cardassians were not impressed. They had taken out most of my weapons and damaged the impulse engines before I could regroup and run.
WORF: The Cardassians have no honor. I do not trust them.
TROI: They're our allies now, Mister Worf. We have to trust them.
WORF: Trust is earned, not given away.
PICARD: I hope their scout ship makes contact soon. It's not a good idea to stay too long on a Cardassian border without making your intentions known.

[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN: What is it?
KEIKO: Kelp buds, plankton loaf and sea berries.
O'BRIEN: Sweetheart, I'm not a fish.
KEIKO: It's very healthy. I had this every morning when I was growing up.
O'BRIEN: What? No muffins or oatmeal, or corned beef and eggs?
KEIKO: For breakfast?
O'BRIEN: Keiko, I've been thinking You've been introducing me to all this wonderful food that you're accustomed to. I'd like to do the same. Isn't that what marriage is about? Sharing?
KEIKO: What kind of foods?
O'BRIEN: Scalloped potatoes, mutton shanks, oxtails and cabbage.
KEIKO: Kind of heavy.
O'BRIEN: Oh, you'll love it, I promise. I can still remember the aromas when my mother was cooking.
KEIKO: She cooked?
O'BRIEN: She didn't believe in a replicator. She thought real food was more nutritious.
KEIKO: She handled real meat? She touched it and cut it?
O'BRIEN: Yeah, like a master chef. She was fantastic. Of course, I'll have to use the replicator, but I'll make something special for you tonight. You'll love it, I promise.
KEIKO: Okay. Maybe I'll have something special for you, tonight, too.
O'BRIEN: Something's wrong.
COMPUTER: Red alert. Take emergency stations.

[Bridge]
WORF: Cardassian ship preparing to fire again, sir.
PICARD: Increase power to forward shields. Hail them again, Mister Worf.
RIKER: What the hell is he doing? Damage report.
WORF: Minor damage to secondary hull before we put our shields up, sir. No casualties. Structural integrity intact.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge. Starboard power coupling is down.
PICARD: Evasive action, delta sequence. Ready phasers, Mister Worf.
DATA: Delta evasion plan initiated.
PICARD: Limit targets to engines and shields.
WORF: Aye, sir. Ready.
PICARD: Fire.
DATA: Direct hit, sir. Moderate damage to their aft shield generators.
PICARD: Continue phaser fire.
DATA: Multiple hits, sir. Power failure in forward shields.
WORF: The Cardassian ship is standing down, sir.
PICARD: Let's see if they'll answer our hail now, Mister Worf.
WORF: Frequency open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
MACET (screen): I am Gul Macet of the Cardassian ship Trager.
PICARD: Why have you fired on us?
MACET (screen): A curious question, Captain. In war, one attacks one's enemies.
PICARD: There is a treaty between our peoples.
MACET (screen): Perhaps that fact was unknown to the Federation starship which destroyed our space station in the Cuellar System two days ago.
PICARD: A Federation starship?
MACET (screen): Attacked an unarmed science station. They had barely enough time to send an emergency signal before they were incinerated.
PICARD: Gul Macet the Federation and the Cardassians have struggled too hard for peace to abandon it so easily.
MACET (screen): We are not the ones who abandoned it, Captain.
PICARD: Let me talk to my superiors, find out what's behind this. Give me one hour. The alternative is for us to continue firing at one other, and in such a contest, you would be at a disadvantage.
MACET (screen): Very well. One hour.

[Ready room]
HADEN (screen): Captain, we've confirmed your report. It was the starship Phoenix, under the command of Benjamin Maxwell.
PICARD: Ben Maxwell? But he's one of Starfleet's finest captains. He must have had provocation.
HADEN (screen): I wish we knew. He's gone on silent running. Doesn't answer our communiqués.
PICARD: Then he's still in Cardassian space?
HADEN (screen): The station he destroyed was in sector twenty one five oh five. You're the nearest starship. We want you to go in and find him.
PICARD: Will the Cardassians cooperate?
HADEN (screen): They've granted you safe passage. We've agreed that you'll take along a delegation of observers as a show of good faith. Jean-Luc, I don't have to tell you the Federation is not prepared for a new sustained conflict. You must preserve the peace, no matter what the cost. Haden out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: There will be three Cardassians transporting aboard. Their Captain, Gul Macet and two of his aides. My intention is to be as open as possible with them, allow them to share in our search for the Phoenix.
WORF: Sir, it is necessary to assign them a security detail.
PICARD: They're our guests, Mister Worf. I don't want them to feel like prisoners.
RIKER: I tend to agree with Mister Worf, Captain. I think we should limit their access while they're on board. They don't need to have the run of the ship.
WORF: At least allow me to post guards in some of the sensitive areas of the ship.
PICARD: Very well, let's limit their access. But you instruct your people they are guests.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, I want you to stay as close to the crew as possible. Some of them may feel uncomfortable with Cardassians on board. I don't want any incidents.
TROI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Data, is there anyone else on board who served previously with Captain Benjamin Maxwell?
DATA: Accessing. Chief O'Brien served under his command aboard the Rutledge, sir.
PICARD: Indeed. Number One, will you and the Counselor meet our guests in Transporter room three? And inform Chief O'Brien I will be calling on him.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I'm First Officer William Riker, Counselor Deanna Troi.
MACET: I am Gul Macet. My aides, Glinn Daro, Glinn Telle.
RIKER: This is our Transporter Chief, Mister O'Brien. Shall we? Captain's Log, supplemental. We have entered Cardassian territory, and are proceeding on our quest to locate the Phoenix.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: And with long range sensors, we've been scanning a radius of ten light years. We can effectively scan one sector in a day.
RIKER: We're scanning Sector twenty one five oh five now. There's still no sign of the Phoenix.
MACET: In fact, you have no assurance that the ship is still in Sector twenty one five oh five.
RIKER: In fact, we have no idea where it is. We thought the last known coordinates were a reasonably good place to start.
MACET: Captain Picard, you can understand that we are skeptical. Do you expect us to believe that you are using every means at your disposal to track down one of your own?
PICARD: Of course you are concerned, Gul Macet. It is precisely because of that fact that I have included you in every aspect of our effort. You're present with my staff. You're hearing reports as I hear them, nothing edited, nothing withheld.
MACET: Very well.
PICARD: Transporter Chief O'Brien, has served with Benjamin Maxwell. I thought that he might be able to provide some insights. Mister O'Brien, I understand that Captain Maxwell lost his family during a raid on an outpost.
O'BRIEN: More like sabotage, sir. It was on Setlik Three. A squad of Cardassian militia made a sneak raid on an outpost, wiped out close to a hundred civilians.
MACET: Then it's revenge he's after.
O'BRIEN: That's not what I meant.
MACET: Maxwell is taking retribution for his own loss.
O'BRIEN: Captain Maxwell would never
PICARD: Gentlemen, please, let's not indulge in speculation. Can we confine our discussion to facts? Now, Mister O'Brien
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Long range sensors have located the Phoenix.
PICARD: Gul Macet, will you join me on the Bridge?

[Turbolift]
O'BRIEN: Deck six.
DARO: Deck ten. Your Captain is most impressive.
O'BRIEN: Yes, he is.
DARO: Chief O'Brien, our Transporting system is still operating with active feed pattern buffers. I would like to talk with you about your technology.
O'BRIEN: I'll have to get Commander La Forge's approval on that.
DARO: I understand. In the meantime, we're going to your Ten Forward. Will you join us?
O'BRIEN: If my Commander tells me to discuss the Transporter with you, I will. If Captain Picard orders me to tell you everything I know about Ben Maxwell, I will. But who I choose to spend my free time with, that's my business.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix in Sector twenty one five oh five.
PICARD: Ensign, set a course, warp six. Mister Worf, send a message by subspace. Tell them to prepare for a rendezvous.
WORF: Yes, Captain.
MACET: Captain, a suggestion.
PICARD: Yes?
MACET: We have a number of ships in sector twenty one five oh five. If you will give us more precise coordinates and the ship's coded transponder frequency, we would be able to intercept Maxwell far more quickly than you.
PICARD: I'm sure that's true. However, given the circumstances, I would prefer to make the initial contact myself. I'm sure you would, if the situation were reversed.
MACET: Captain, time is crucial. You have a dangerous man out there with a huge arsenal at his command. If he is intent on revenge against my people he must be stopped before he can do more damage.
PICARD: Captain, so far we have an isolated incident. If I can reach him first, then perhaps diplomacy can prevail. But if one of your ships decides to retaliate, there is a danger we could lose control of the situation.
MACET: Then you will not give us the means to find his precise location?
PICARD: No. I won't.

[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN: There you are. Potato casserole. A dish fit for kings.
O'BRIEN: The minstrel boy to the war has gone
KEIKO: What's that you're singing?
O'BRIEN: What? Oh, it's just an old song. A bunch of us used to sing it together on the Rutledge. I hadn't thought about it in years
KEIKO: What's it about?
O'BRIEN: Oh, it's about war and glory. The minstrel boy to the war has gone. In the ranks of death you will find him. His father's sword he hath girded on. And his wild harp slung behind him. Captain Maxwell always liked that song. I guess it's all this business with him and the Cardassians brought it back to me. You know, sitting with the staff this morning, I could tell there were people in that room who still don't like the Cardassians.
KEIKO: I imagine that's to be expected.
O'BRIEN: You do?
KEIKO: Sure. The war lasted a long time. That takes its toll on people. What are these little dark things?
O'BRIEN: Capers. But the fighting is over now. Why should anyone still feel however they feel?
KEIKO: You fought the Cardassians, didn't you?
O'BRIEN: Well, there were some skirmishes, when I was with Captain Maxwell.
KEIKO: Well, how do you feel about them?
O'BRIEN: Me? I feel fine. I mean, the war's over now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The pursuing ship is the Phoenix.
MACET: And the other?
DATA: It appears it be a Cardassian supply ship.
MACET: How would you know that?
PICARD: We are able to make that determination.
MACET: You can read our transponder codes.
PICARD: The important thing at the moment is that one of your ships may be in jeopardy. Mister Worf, has there been any answer to our communication?
WORF: No, Captain.
PICARD: Put out a repeating message on all subspace channels, priority one communiqué. Break off your pursuit immediately.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Gul Macet, you see we are doing everything in our power to reach the Phoenix.
MACET: Yes, and accomplishing nothing, I'm sorry to say. Can you show me the location of our other ships?
PICARD: Mister Data.
MACET: There, you see? We have a warship which could intercept the Phoenix before it's too late. If you will give us the transponder frequency. Or are you going to stand there while our ship is destroyed, Captain?
PICARD: Mister Worf, has there been any response to our hails?
WORF: No, Captain.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, relay the prefix codes of the Phoenix to the Cardassian warship.
WORF: Sir, they will be able to dismantle its shields. The Phoenix will not have a chance.
PICARD: I cannot allow Maxwell to ambush that supply ship. Mister Worf, now.
WORF: Yes, Captain.
DATA: Sir, the Cardassian warship is moving on the Phoenix.
PICARD: Mister Data, overlay weapon ranges of the two ships.
DATA: The warship is three hundred thousand kilometers from the Phoenix. It is opening fire. The Phoenix has taken a direct hit. The Phoenix is beginning evasive maneuvers. It has positioned itself outside the weapons range of the opposing ship. The Phoenix has powered up both phasers and photon torpedoes. The Phoenix is firing photon torpedoes.
MACET: He has destroyed our warship.
PICARD: Does the supply ship have any weapons?
MACET: Very limited. Certainly not enough to defeat a Nebula class starship.
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix is firing on the
MACET: The warship carried a crew of six hundred, the supply ship, fifty.
PICARD: Mister Data estimated time to intercept with the Phoenix.
DATA: At our present speed of warp four, sixteen hours, forty four minutes.
PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp nine.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Captain.
PICARD: Chief. I wanted to talk to you.
O'BRIEN: Anything I can do, sir, you know that.
PICARD: Ben Maxwell. He must be quite a man.
O'BRIEN: He's a rare one, all right. I count myself lucky, sir. I've served with the two finest Captains in Starfleet.
PICARD: From your knowledge of the man, what has gone wrong?
O'BRIEN: There's a reason for what he's doing. Those Cardassians were up to something, I'm sure of it.
PICARD: When his family was killed, how did he take it?
O'BRIEN: I'd say he took it well. Oh, I know he was broken up inside, who wouldn't be? But you'd never know it to see him. He never missed a minute's duty, always had a smile, a joke.
PICARD: I see.
O'BRIEN: He would never retaliate out of vengeance, no matter what that Cardassian says. They're up to something, sir. They're the ones you should be investigating, not Captain Maxwell.
PICARD: You don't care for the Cardassians?
O'BRIEN: I like them fine. It's just, well, I know them. You learn to watch your back when you're around those people.
PICARD: Ben Maxwell has just sent more than six hundred of them to their deaths.
O'BRIEN: I don't know what to say, sir, but he must have had his reasons.
PICARD: I think when one has been angry for a very long time, one gets used to it. And it becomes comfortable, like old leather. And, finally, it becomes so familiar that one can't ever remember feeling any other way. Thank you, Chief.

[Ten Forward]
DARO: Kanar.
O'BRIEN: Mind if I join you?
DARO: Do you want another? And an ale.
O'BRIEN: Kanar. I never could develop a taste for it.
DARO: It takes a bit of getting used to.
O'BRIEN: I wanted to say I owe you an apology. I shouldn't have popped off like that in the turbolift.
DARO: I think
WAITER: Here's your ale, Mister O'Brien.
DARO: This has been hard on all of us. I know I'll be happy when I'm back on my own ship.
O'BRIEN: I guess that's true. I hadn't thought of it like that. I was on Setlik three with Captain Maxwell the morning after the massacre. We were too late, of course. Almost everyone was dead.
DARO: That was a terrible mistake. We were told the outpost was a launching place for a massive attack against us.
O'BRIEN: The only people left alive were in an outlying district of the settlement. I was sent there with a squad to reinforce them. Cardassians were advancing on us, moving through the streets, destroying, killing. I was with a group of women and children when two Cardassian soldiers burst in. I stunned one of them. The other jumped me. We struggled. One of the women threw me a phaser, and I fired. The phaser was set at maximum. The man just incinerated, there before my eyes. I'd never killed anything before. When I was a kid, I'd worry about swatting a mosquito. It's not you I hate, Cardassian. I hate what I became because of you.

[Bridge]
TELLE: I will protest this, Klingon!
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: He was found at a computer station on deck thirty five, attempting to access information on our weapon systems.
TELLE: A lie, Gul Macet. I was studying the terminal interface systems. They're more efficient than ours. I have no idea what was in the files.
MACET: What business did you have going near one of their computers?
TELLE: But, Gul Macet, I meant nothing. There was no harm done.
MACET: Go to your quarters. You are confined there for the duration of this expedition.
TELLE: As you wish, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, please accompany him.
WORF: Gladly, Captain.
MACET: Captain, may we speak in private?
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Ready room]
MACET: I deeply regret what my aide has done, Captain. You have my word he will be disciplined upon my return.
PICARD: You may take whatever action against him you feel is appropriate. I consider the matter closed.
MACET: I'm not sure I would be so generous in your place, Captain. Thank you.
PICARD: If there is to be a lasting peace, Gul Macet, neither you nor I must allow any one man to undermine our efforts.
MACET: There are those who crave war, who need it. I am not one of them, Captain, and I'm beginning to see that neither are you. We have had our full measure. The lasting peace begins here, with the two of us.
DATA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
PICARD: Picard here.
DATA (voiceover): We have located the Phoenix, sir. We will intercept it in twenty two minutes.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44431.7. We have established communication with Captain Maxwell, and he has agreed to come on board.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome aboard, sir. I'm Commander Riker, First Officer.
MAXWELL: I know all about you, Commander. Fine work you did with the Borg. We all owe you on that one.
RIKER: Thank you, sir.
MAXWELL: O'Brien? Miles O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: Hello, Captain. Good to see you again.
MAXWELL: How are you? I had no idea you were on the Enterprise. This was my Tactical Officer on the Rutledge. Best I ever had.
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir.
MAXWELL: O'Brien has the ability to size up a situation instantly, then come up with options to fit all contingencies. Remarkable.
O'BRIEN: Well, if that's true, I learned it from you, sir.
MAXWELL: But you got that silver tongue by kissing the stone, right? Well, Commander, best I see your Captain straight away. We've got a lot to talk about.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Captain Benjamin Maxwell.
PICARD: That'll be all, Commander.
PICARD: Captain.
MAXWELL: A pleasure, Captain.
PICARD: Please, sit down.
MAXWELL: You must think I've gone mad.
PICARD: The thought had occurred.
MAXWELL: Picard, I have to tell you I was grateful when I realized it was you Starfleet sent after me. Somebody who knows what it's really like out here.
PICARD: I know of nothing out here that could possibly justify what you have done.
MAXWELL: Then listen to this. The Cardassians are arming again. That so-called science station? Military supply port.
PICARD: How do you know this?
MAXWELL: Information comes my way.
PICARD: From whom? Where is your documentation?
MAXWELL: I know what they're doing. I can smell it. There's no good reason for a science station in the Cuellar System, but it's a hell of a strategic site for a military transport station. A jumping-off point into three Federation sectors. They're running supply ships back and forth and nobody's going to tell me it's for scientific research.
PICARD: But whatever circumstances you encountered, why didn't you notify Starfleet?
MAXWELL: And wait six months while the bureaucrats sit around reading reports, trying to figure out what to do? They don't know what's going on out here. But you should, Picard. You know what it's like to be under fire.
PICARD: You weren't under fire.
MAXWELL: Lives were at stake.
PICARD: Whose lives?
MAXWELL: We had to act now.
PICARD: Why?
MAXWELL: It smells musty in here. Like a bureaucrat's office.
PICARD: You have killed nearly seven hundred people and you have taken us to the brink of war.
MAXWELL: I have prevented war, or at the very least delayed it a good long time. The peace treaty was a ruse, to give them breathing room, time to regroup.
PICARD: And so all alone you decided to dispose of the treaty.
MAXWELL: I took the initiative. I did what had to be done.
PICARD: What had to be done? For whom? Why does a man with a long and brilliant service abandon the fundamental principles that he has believed in, even fought for, all his life? I believe it is because of what they did to your wife and your children.
MAXWELL: Not true. Not true.
PICARD: To avenge their deaths.
MAXWELL: You're a fool, Picard. History will look at you and say this man was a fool.
PICARD: I'll accept the judgment of history.
MAXWELL: When it becomes clear what the Cardassians have done, I will be vindicated.
PICARD: What the Cardassians have or have not done is irrelevant.
MAXWELL: Irrelevant? Come with me. Find one of their supply ships and we'll see how irrelevant it is.
PICARD: We're not going after any more Cardassian ships. You're going to return to your bridge and set a course for Starbase two one one. The Phoenix and the Enterprise will return to Federation space together. Those are Starfleet's orders. I will permit you the dignity of retaining your command during the voyage. The only alternative is to put you in the brig and to tow your ship back to starbase in disgrace.
MAXWELL: I will return to my ship.
PICARD: You understand your orders?
MAXWELL: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, report to my Ready room. My guest is departing.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. With the Phoenix in close formation, we are proceeding directly to Starbase two one one.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, how long until we clear Cardassian space?
DATA: At our present speed, three hours, twenty minutes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, send a message to Admiral Haden at Starfleet. Inform him of our projected time of arrival.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix has changed course.
MACET: What is he doing?
PICARD: Ensign, change course to pursue. Mister Worf, will you hail Captain Maxwell?
WORF: No response, sir.
RIKER: Data, project his new course.
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix is heading directly for a Cardassian vessel point one two light years from our location.
MACET: He'll attack that ship just as he did the others.
PICARD: Continue the hail, Mister Worf. Priority one message. Do you know what that ship might be?
MACET: I imagine it's a supply ship, headed for the research station in the Kelrabi system.
WORF: The Phoenix still does not respond, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, warp eight. Overtake him.
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix has accelerated to warp nine. We will not be able to reach him before he intercepts the Cardassian ship.
PICARD: Ensign, warp nine.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, arm phasers. Continue the hail.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Captain, Chief O'Brien was Maxwell's Tactical officer.
PICARD: Get him up here.
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix has dropped out of warp. They have reached the Cardassian vessel.
RIKER: Slow to impulse.
WORF: Vessels are within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: Has the Phoenix activated its weapon systems?
DATA: Negative, sir. Their phaser banks are not armed.
RIKER: What about the Cardassians?
DATA: Our sensors are unable to determine status of the Cardassian defensive systems. Their ship is running with a high powered subspace field.
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, your former Commander, a Federation Captain, is about to place me in the position of firing on his ship. I need your knowledge of the man. How he thinks, what he's capable of doing.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
WORF: Sir, Captain Maxwell is hailing us.
PICARD: On screen.
MAXWELL (screen): All right, Picard. You need proof? You've got it now.
PICARD: Captain Maxwell, you have disobeyed a direct order.
MAXWELL (screen): Board the ship, you'll see that everything I've been saying is true.
PICARD: The Cardassian vessel will not be boarded. You will transport yourself aboard the Enterprise
MAXWELL (screen): Picard, if you don't board that ship, I'll destroy it.
PICARD: And I will use whatever force is necessary to prevent you from taking that action, Captain.
O'BRIEN: Sir, Captain Maxwell, if he feels his back is to the wall, he'll strike.
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix is transferring power to its shields.
WORF: They're arming phasers and loading forward torpedo bays.
PICARD: Red alert. It seems you were right, Mister O'Brien. Ready phasers, load torpedoes.
WORF: Phasers armed. Loading forward and aft torpedo bays.
O'BRIEN: Sir, let me beam over. Try to talk to him. We served together a long time. When you've been through what we have, you tend to get inside someone. He might listen.
RIKER: He'd never drop his shields and allow you to transport on board.
O'BRIEN: The Phoenix is using a high energy sensor system. It cycles every five point five minutes. Between cycles there's a window of a fiftieth of a second. Trust me, I can get through.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Phoenix Ready room]
MAXWELL: Not now!
O'BRIEN: I'm not armed.
MAXWELL: How the devil did you get over here?
O'BRIEN: I had the thought that if we could talk we could figure a way out of this mess.
MAXWELL: The way out of this is clear. Talk to Picard. Get him to board the damned ship.
O'BRIEN: He won't do that, sir.
MAXWELL: But he'd turn his weapons on a Federation Starship to protect the enemy? I don't believe it.
O'BRIEN: He will. Count on it.
MAXWELL: What the hell has happened to this war?
O'BRIEN: Sir, there is no war. The war is over.
MAXWELL: You're wrong. The Cardassians live to make war.
O'BRIEN: That's what everybody thinks about the enemy. That's probably what they think about us.
MAXWELL: We're not the same at all. We do not start wars. We do not make surprise attacks on manned outposts. We do not butcher women and children in their homes. Children who never got the chance to grow up. You were with me on Setlick. You saw what they did.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
MAXWELL: What was the name of the fellow who always hung around you like a puppy?
O'BRIEN: Will Kayden. Stompie.
MAXWELL: Stompie. As cool under fire as a mountain lake.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
MAXWELL: He died at Setlick, didn't he?
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
MAXWELL: What was that song of his? The one he always sang, the one I liked?
O'BRIEN: The minstrel boy to the war has gone. In the ranks of death you will find him.
BOTH: His father's sword he hath girded on and his wild harp slung behind him. Land of song, said the warrior bard, tho' all the world betrays thee. One sword at least thy rights shall guard.
O'BRIEN: One faithful harp shall praise thee.
MAXWELL: I'm not going to win this one, am I. Chief?
O'BRIEN: No, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Captain Maxwell has turned his ship over to his First Officer and transported aboard the Enterprise. I have confined him to quarters for the return voyage.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Thank you, Chief.
O'BRIEN: I'd just like to say, sir, he was a good man. What he did was terribly wrong, I know that now, but I'm still proud to have served with him.
PICARD: Thank you, Chief, and well done. That'll be all.
MACET: His loyalty is admirable, even if it is misplaced.
PICARD: The loyalty you would so quickly dismiss does not come easily to my people, Gul Macet. You have much to learn about us. Benjamin Maxwell earned the loyalty of those who served with him. You know, in war, he was twice honored with the Federation's highest citation for courage and valor. And if he could not find a role for himself in peace, we can pity him, but we shall not dismiss him.
MACET: You are welcome to your opinion, Captain. I, for one, am grateful he is under lock and key.
PICARD: One more thing, Macet. Maxwell was right. Those ships were not carrying scientific equipment, were they? A research station within arm's reach of three Federation sectors? Cargo ships running with high energy subspace fields that jam sensors?
MACET: If you believed the transport ship was carrying weapons, Captain, why didn't you board it as Maxwell requested?
PICARD: I was here to protect the peace. A peace that I firmly believe is in the interests of both our peoples. If I had attempted to board that ship I am quite certain that you and I would not be having this pleasant conversation, and that ships on both sides would now be arming for war.
MACET: Captain, I assure you.
PICARD: Take this message to your leaders, Gul Macet. We'll be watching.

[Ebenezer Scrooge's bedchamber]
MARLEY: You don't believe in me.
DATA: I don't.
MARLEY: What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your senses?
DATA: I don't know.
MARLEY: Why do you doubt your senses?
DATA: Because a little thing affects them. A slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats. You may be an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato. Why, there's more of gravy than of grave about you, whatever you are. Humbug, I tell you. Humbug.
PICARD: Freeze program. Very well done, Data. Your performance skills really are improving.
DATA: Your courtesy is appreciated, sir. But I am aware that I do not effectively convey the fear called for in this scene.
PICARD: Well, you've never known fear, Data. But as an acute observer of behavior, you should be able to approximate it.
DATA: Sir, that is not an appropriate basis for an effective performance. Not by the standards set by my mentors.
PICARD: Your mentors?
DATA: Yes, sir. I have studied the philosophies of virtually every known acting master. I find myself attracted to Stanislavsky, Adler, Garnav. Proponents of an acting technique known as the Method.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Method acting? I'm vaguely familiar with it, but why would you choose such an old-fashioned approach?
DATA: Perhaps because the technique requires an actor to seek his own emotional awareness to understand the character he plays.
PICARD: But surely that's an impossible task for you, Data.
DATA: Sir, I have modified the Method for my own uses. Since I have no emotional awareness to create a performance, I am attempting to use performance to create emotional awareness. I believe if I can learn to duplicate the fear of Ebenezer Scrooge, I will be one step closer to truly understanding humanity.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain Picard, please report to the Bridge.
PICARD: On my way, Number One. Data, the moment you decided to stop imitating other actors and create your own interpretation, you were already one step closer to understanding humanity.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've received an emergency transmission from the science station on Ventax Two, sir.
PICARD: What's the nature of the emergency?
RIKER: Uncertain. The signal was interrupted.
WORF: Contact reestablished with Ventax Two, sir.
RIKER: On screen.
CLARK (screen): I am Doctor Howard Clark, director of the science station here on Ventax Two. Thank you for responding.
PICARD: Worf, can you improve our reception?
WORF: The trouble is at the transmission source, sir.
PICARD: Doctor Clark, we are barely able maintain communication with you. Can you boost the level of your power source?
CLARK (screen): I'm afraid not, Captain. It's under attack.
PICARD: Under attack?
CLARK (screen): There's a mob outside the door, trying to break into the station. The planet is in chaos. Lootings, fires, mass hysteria. These people are all convinced their world is coming to an end. Tomorrow. Please, we must have your immediate
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44474.5. We have reached Ventax Two and are attempting to contact the Federation science station, which at last report was under siege by an angry mob.

[Bridge]
WORF: They are transmitting again.
PICARD: On screen, before we lose contact.
CLARK (screen): Enterprise, Enterprise! Do you read me? Emergency! We need help!
PICARD: Doctor Clark, this is Captain Picard. We are ready to beam you and your staff on board the
CLARK (screen): They're in!
PICARD: Transporter room three. Lock onto the science team and beam them aboard.
CHIEF (voiceover): I've locked onto Doctor Clark. I can't pick out the others. It's a mess down there.
PICARD: Then beam Doctor Clark aboard by himself.
CHIEF (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you escort him to my ready room.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, try to make some sense out of this mess.

[Ready room]
CLARK: The people in Ventax Two live in an agrarian society. At least, they do now.
PICARD: What do you mean, now?
CLARK: It's an interesting anthropological question. One we were studying before the trouble began. In the distant past, the Ventaxian culture had achieved an extremely advanced scientific level, but a millennium ago they turned their backs on technology.
PICARD: They reverted to a simpler existence?
CLARK: And remained that way for centuries. First contact was made by a Klingon expedition seventy years ago. Since then, the new technology has been available to the Ventaxians. They simply are not interested in it. Virtually no social problems to be found on this planet, In fact, I would have described their society as idyllic until
PICARD: Until what, Doctor?
CLARK: It's hard to believe. Several years ago, Acost Jared, the Ventaxian head of state, began to grow increasingly obsessed with the legend of Ardra. With each passing day, he grew more anxious, and he talked about little else. Ardra is coming back. Ardra will be here soon. We must all leave before Ardra returns.
PICARD: And who is this Ardra?
CLARK: For all intents and purposes, the devil. Captain, these people actually believe they've sold their souls to the devil.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Have you located the science team, Number One?
RIKER (voiceover): Evidently they're being held hostage.
CLARK: Hostage?
RIKER (voiceover): There's a Ventaxian leader on the viewscreen, name of Acost Jared.
PICARD: Doctor.

[Bridge]
CLARK: Jared, you must secure the release of my people. I can't believe you would allow this.
JARED (screen): Howard, my friend, you know how I abhor all acts of violence, but events are out of my control.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Is there nothing you can do?
JARED (screen): As the hour of Ardra's return approaches, fear has overwhelmed my people. It has been a thousand years. The prophecies have come true.
PICARD: Prophecies?
CLARK: Ardra's arrival was supposed to be heralded by the shaking of the cities. Now there has been a series of geological tremors on the planet. Minor quakes, nothing extraordinary.
PICARD: Poorly timed.
JARED (screen): There is more. For several nights there have been visions of Ardra. Again, just as the contract said would occur before her return.
PICARD: Visions? Do you mean dreams?
JARED (screen): No. She has appeared. I myself have seen her.
PICARD: Jared, tell your people, if the hostages are released, I am prepared to offer Federation assistance should this, this Ardra return.
JARED: I am afraid it will not matter. They know your weapons are useless against her, Captain. I will make inquiries concerning the hostages. The innocent should not suffer from our sins. But I can make no promises.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: This situation is deteriorating, Captain. The people are approaching levels of anxiety that could lead to suicide.
PICARD: Mister Data, what do we know about this Ardra?
DATA: She is a cornerstone of Ventaxian theology. It seems that Ardra came to Ventax Two and promised one thousand years of peace and prosperity, for a price. Upon her return, she would enslave the entire population. In Ventaxian culture, it is considered bad luck to speak her name out loud.
CLARK: There are ancient scrolls concerning Ardra that are stored in the Athenaeum vaults. Scholars study them. They have been of little public interest until recently
PICARD: I think I should meet with this Acost Jared. He's still our best hope for the release of the hostages.
RIKER: I'll arrange to have him transported on board.
PICARD: No. I'm going down to the planet myself.
WORF: Sir, you run the risk of being taken as an additional hostage
PICARD: Mister Worf, you and Mister Data will accompany me. Mister O'Brien can keep a lock on our communicators. He can pull us out if necessary.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, I want you to come too.

[Athenaeum]
JARED: Captain Picard, you shouldn't have come. Your life is in danger here.
PICARD: You must calm your people. There is no reason for panic.
JARED: No reason?
PICARD: If the tremors have frightened people, leading to this hysteria over Ardra, let us reassure them.
DATA: We have scanned the tectonic stress patterns of your planet's crust. There is no evidence that the quakes pose any kind of threat.
JARED: No, no, no, the threat is from Ardra. You cannot understand.
PICARD: If you can at least help us locate our people.
JARED: She is here.
PICARD: Nonsense. It is only
ARDRA: Time's up. I'm disappointed. I expected my tenants to take better care of my property.
JARED: Ardra, most powerful one, I am Jared, Leader of Ventax Two. I take responsibility for all that displeases you. Please, do not punish my people.
ARDRA: Punish? Who said anything about punishing? I merely expect your end of our contract to be upheld.
JARED: Thank you, Ardra.
ARDRA: And don't talk like some ancient prophet around me, with thees and thous and most powerful ones. It was appealing for a few centuries, but I bore easily. And stop cowering. When I want you on your knees, I'll let you know. Much better. a fine example for the others. Who would you be?
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
ARDRA: Keep up the good work. Now, the first thing we'll need is an accounting of all you've been accumulating for me. This form will provide guidelines for a full census of the population, with emphasis on productivity and economic forecasts.
PICARD: Who are you?
ARDRA: My, you are forceful, aren't you? Good. I like my men to be forceful. At least at the start.
PICARD: If your intent is to intimidate, you are not succeeding.
ARDRA: That's all right. I like a challenge.
TROI: An entire planet has been terrorized because of the suggestion that you're going to enslave the population.
ARDRA: Well, it's true. Of course, I wouldn't put it so melodramatically. It's just a standard contract with an unusually long term.
DATA: So you do purport to be the mythic figure Ardra?
ARDRA: I have many names, my pale friend. I'm Mendora in the Berussian Cluster. Torak to the Drellians. The Klingons call me Fek'lhr.
WORF: You are not Fek'lhr.
FEK'LHR: Ah, but I am I am the Guardian of Gre'thor. Where the dishonored go when they die.
ARDRA: But here on Ventax Two, I am called Ardra. The same Ardra who negotiated a contract with these people ten centuries ago today. Oh, you doubt me. A non-believer. Really, Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise, no doubt you have traveled the galaxy, encountered a diverse universe of creatures. Is there no room for the likes of me?
PICARD: I have encountered many who more credibly could be called the devil than you.
ARDRA: The devil! Now there's one I haven't heard in a long time.
PICARD: You claim you visited this planet a thousand years ago and negotiated a contract?
ARDRA: That's correct.
PICARD: I would like to see that contract.

[Vault]
JARED: The scrolls of Ardra, Captain.
ARDRA: A long-winded description of a very simple business arrangement. I did away with their wars, famine and economic ruin, and provided them a thousand years of paradise. My terms were clearly stated. They went into this with their eyes open. I'm sure you'll find everything is in order.
PICARD: You won't mind if I don't take your word for it? Jared, with your permission, I'd like Mister Data will review these scrolls thoroughly.
JARED: It is no longer my decision, Captain.
ARDRA: I have intrigued you, haven't I, Picard?
PICARD: I am only here to secure the release of the Federation hostages.
ARDRA: Hostages? Is this true?
JARED: Yes, Ardra. Panic gripped the people as the time of your return grew closer.
ARDRA: Yes, I do have that effect on people. See that the hostages are released. Now.
JARED: Immediately.
ARDRA: Let us not cloud this with bit players, Picard. You will not leave because you find me irresistible.
PICARD: Enterprise, advise Doctor Clark that the hostages are being released.
CLARK (voiceover): This is Clark. You did it, Captain. Thank goodness.
PICARD: Goodness had nothing to do with it. Three to beam up. Mister Data will remain on the surface. Data, I want a complete report on the contents of these documents. I refuse to abandon this planet to that woman. Energize.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Could she be another refugee from the Q continuum?
CRUSHER: For that matter, could she be Q?
PICARD: Q would never bother with contracts.
TROI: Or economic forecasts.
PICARD: I noticed that too, Counselor. I had the distinct impression of in the presence of a flim-flam artist.
WORF: But her powers?
PICARD: Her powers are, at the best, unclear. Think about it, Mister Worf. Transporter technology can make things appear and disappear. The illusion that she can transform herself into a Klingon creature could be created by holographic projection.
CLARK: And creating a minor tremor could be the result of a low frequency tractor beam projected against the tectonic plates.
PICARD: We are capable of recreating all of these events. It's just that she dresses them up and she delivers them with more dramatic flair.
CRUSHER: Like a magician.
PICARD: Exactly.
TROI: She has an incredibly focused mind. It was virtually impossible to sense any deception. Or anything else, for that matter.
LAFORGE: The best magicians will never let you see what's up their sleeve, Counselor.
RIKER: She must be tapping into some sort of power source to produce these effects. She's not hiding that up her sleeve.
PICARD: Number One, I want you and Mister Worf to run high resolution scans of this star system. Look for a ship, a base of operations, anything large enough to generate that power. Mister La Forge, accompany Doctor Clark back to the science station. See if you can trace the origin of these tremors.

[Bridge]
ARDRA: Your chair offers a lovely view of my planet, Picard. Come, sit with me.
PICARD: Either leave my Bridge or I will remove you by force.
ARDRA: By force? You disappoint me. You didn't strike me as that sort, Picard, But by all means, try.
PICARD: Mister Worf.
ARDRA: I was really hoping you'd try it yourself.
PICARD: Transporter room three, lock on to the intruder and transport her to the planet surface.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, put up the shields until further notice.
ARDRA: Yes, sir, Captain. Whatever you say.
RIKER: We are not impressed by your magic tricks.
ARDRA: I pity you. We live in a universe of magic, which evidently you cannot see. Ah, my pale friend has returned. Have you finished examining the contract?
DATA: I have, sir.
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: The contract agrees to deliver the people of Ventax Two into the personal servitude of Ardra after one thousand years of peace. I have compared the terms to the body of laws which govern the planet. The language of the agreement is correct in every detail, sir.
ARDRA: Such speed and accuracy. You're much too talented to be human.
DATA: I am an android.
ARDRA: Android. Of course. How wonderful. An unexpected bonus.
RIKER: Bonus?
ARDRA: Yes. When the contract came to term, I gained clear title to the planet, anything on the surface, in the air or in orbit. So you see, the Enterprise belongs to me now as well.
DATA: I'm afraid the contract could be interpreted in that way, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Although I consider this woman's claim upon my ship to be an empty threat, it has further inspired my determination to expose her for the fraud she is.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: You wished to see me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data. A wise man once said, there is a sucker born every minute.
DATA: Barnum, sir. PT.
PICARD: I've been examining the dynamics of what used to be called the con game. Quite fascinating. Worthy of your study, Data.
DATA: Sir, do you believe Ardra is, to use the vernacular, a con artist?
PICARD: Yes, I do, Data. And I believe it is our job to out-con the con artist.
DATA: Sir, I must point out that the Ventaxians did have one thousand years of peace and tranquility as promised by Ardra.
PICARD: We can only speculate what occurred on that planet a thousand years ago. Maybe a Ventaxian leader saw the destruction of his society at hand and he conceived this Contract of Ardra to motivate change. Or maybe there was an Ardra of some sort who is the basis of this mythology. Who knows? The point is that somehow a fundamental theology was created which transformed this society, but in the process of change, created this latent fear which has been passed down through generations. Data, from your own experience of performing Ebenezer Scrooge, you're aware how fear can be a very powerful motivator.
DATA: Indeed, sir. In the story, the spirits used fear to motivate Scrooge to reform his character.
PICARD: And in the hands of a con artist, fear can be used to motivate obedience, capitulation, the exploitation of innocent people. And that is what I believe has happened here. I intend to prove that. I need to find a loophole, some way of challenging the validity of this contract.
DATA: Sir, the language of the contract seems carefully chosen to avoid any loopholes.
PICARD: Check it again, Mister Data, and check every Ventaxian legal precedent for the last one thousand years. We'll talk again in the morning.
DATA: Aye, sir,

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Intruder alert. Picard to Bridge.
ARDRA: Oh, I've arranged for a bit of privacy.
ARDRA: Just the two of us.
PICARD: This is becoming very tiresome.
ARDRA: Oh, come now, Picard. You know you find me tantalizing. Give in to your desires.
PICARD: You know, there's nothing about you I find tantalizing. On the contrary, I find you obvious and vulgar.
ARDRA: Easily fixed. I can be your ideal woman, Picard. Prim and proper. And chaste, until I succumb to your charms. Or would your fantasies turn more toward a professional woman, one perhaps who wears a Starfleet uniform? Perhaps I could even be
TROI: Someone close at hand and yet unattainable. I can do anything for you, Captain. Anything you could ever imagine.
ARDRA: I could give you a night that would light fire in your dreams until you die and you would reject me?
PICARD: Oh, yes.
ARDRA: You shall regret that.
PICARD: I think not.
ARDRA: Oh, but you will.

[Science station]
LAFORGE: Captain Picard? Captain, I wasn't expecting you here.
PICARD: Neither was I.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise.
WORF (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Worf, Captain Picard is here.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): You'd better transport him back on board.
WORF: The Captain? But I have no
PICARD (voiceover): It's all right, Mister Worf.

[Science station]
PICARD: Ardra somehow transported me here. Will you beam me directly to my quarters.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir. We're locked on to you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Transporter is malfunctioning, Captain.

[Science station]
WORF (voiceover): Some sort of interference. Checking.
PICARD: Just have Mister Data fetch me in a shuttle. And have him bring along a uniform.

[Bridge]
WORF: Did you say uniform?
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, I did.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Mister La Forge and Doctor Clark have made no headway. Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf have picked nothing up anything on their scans.
DATA: Sir, I believe I have found an obscure precedent in Ventaxian law which may be of interest.
PICARD: Yes?
DATA: The case involves a contract dispute over services rendered by a Klingon craftsman on the construction of a Ventaxian home. Because the dispute involved an alien culture, the parties decided that arbitration rather than the courts, should resolve the issue. Both sides agreed to choose an arbiter. It is the only known case involving an alien claimant.
PICARD: That's exactly what I needed. Well done, Data.
DATA: Shuttlecraft One to Enterprise. Prepare for docking sequence
RIKER (voiceover): Proceed, Shuttle One.
PICARD: Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me? Enterprise, come in.

[Science station]
DATA: I cannot locate the Enterprise anywhere within one light year of the planet, sir.
PICARD: I don't believe Ardra is capable of transporting the Enterprise a light year away. Keep hailing them, Mister Data. Repeat on all frequencies.
LAFORGE: Hey, I think we've found something here. There's a sudden jump in Z-particle readings just about the time the Enterprise disappeared.
PICARD: Where did it originate?
CLARK: It was too brief to pinpoint.
LAFORGE: But it could suggest a hidden power source.
PICARD: Gentlemen, we need to find that source if we are to defeat this woman.
LAFORGE: Well, if you can get her to perform a few more magic tricks like that one, we just might be able to track it down.
ARDRA: So, I trust you have a bit more respect for me now.
PICARD: What have you done with my ship?
ARDRA: I've done nothing with your ship. My ship is safely in my possession.
PICARD: I do not recognize your claim on the Enterprise. Nor on this world, for that matter. In accordance with Ventaxian legal precedent, I call for an arbitration.
ARDRA: An arbitration? There's nothing here to arbitrate.
PICARD: Oh, but there is. You're a fraud, madame, and I intend to prove that you could not have affected the changes that took place on this planet.
ARDRA: Do you not believe what you see with your own eyes? Your ship is gone, Captain.
PICARD: An illusion. Magicians have been making things of all sorts disappear for ages.
ARDRA: You underestimate me. But then, most people do, until it's too late.
PICARD: If you are who you say you are, then you have nothing to lose.
ARDRA: I also have nothing to gain. I already have possession of this planet and your ship.
PICARD: I am prepared to offer an added incentive. If you win, I'll take you to the ruins of Ligillium.
ARDRA: The Zaterl Emerald? You know where it is?
PICARD: Yes, I do.
ARDRA: Oh, you are too clever. But I have enough jewels. If you wish this foolish arbitration, I will choose my own prize.
PICARD: And what would that be?
ARDRA: You. By all rights, your body is already mine, but I want more. I want your heart, your mind, your soul, and I want you to give them to me without resistance, of your own free will. So, do you still wish to pursue this most dangerous game?
PICARD: I agree to your terms.
ARDRA: Oh, Picard, I will enjoy you morning, noon and night.
PICARD: But we must agree to an arbiter.
ARDRA: Very well. I choose Mister Data. Any objections?
PICARD: But Mister Data is a member of my crew.
ARDRA: Of my crew. And he's an android. He is incapable of deceit or bias. He has no feelings to get in the way of his judgment.
DATA: Ardra, before he responds, may I have a word in private with Captain Picard?
DATA: Sir, I request you reject me as arbitrator.
PICARD: Why?
DATA: Ardra is right. If I am chosen, I will perform my duties without bias or sentiment. I cannot guarantee I will deliver a verdict in your favor.
PICARD: Data, where else on this planet can I find someone she cannot intimidate?
DATA: Sir, I will have to follow the rules of conduct for a Ventaxian jurist.
PICARD: I understand. You'll make a fine judge.

[Athenaeum]
JARED: A thousand years ago our planet was dying. Overcrowded and dangerous city states warred unceasingly with each other. The air and water were polluted with industrial waste and there was a constant threat of starvation and epidemic.
ARDRA: And then what happened?
JARED: And then you came.
PICARD: Objection. There is no conclusive evidence that this woman ever visited the planet a thousand years ago.
ARDRA: I suppose you want a thousand year old witness?
PICARD: That would be acceptable.
ARDRA: Jared. In the contract, does it specify how you would know me when I return?
JARED: Yes by the date.
ARDRA: Anything else?
JARED: by the shaking of the cities, and by the visions.
ARDRA: And all of these occurred on schedule?
JARED: Yes.
ARDRA: Thank you. Your honor, I submit that I have established my identity as stated by the contract.
DATA: Captain Picard, my interpretation of Ventaxian law suggests under these circumstances, this is acceptable. Your objection is overruled.
PICARD: But, your honor!
DATA: Sir, I have ruled. Please sit down. You may proceed.
ARDRA: Thank you, your Honor. Now, when I first set foot on Ventax Two, what did I offer your people?
JARED: According to the scrolls, you offered us a thousand years of peace and prosperity, if we would promise to surrender ourselves to you at the end of the term.
ARDRA: Now why do you think they would strike such a bargain?
JARED: We had nothing to lose. There was no hope in sight.
ARDRA: Until I came along.
PICARD: Objection!
ARDRA: I withdraw the observation. No further questions.
PICARD: Your Honor, nothing in this testament proves that Ardra had the power to affect the lives of the Ventaxians. My opponent has failed to prove her case and I move that her claim be summarily dismissed.
DATA: I find no cause to invalidate the contract at this time. The arbitration will continue.
ARDRA: Your Honor, Captain Picard as a new visitor to my planet has been a consistent doubter of my abilities. I would like to ask him a few questions, if I may.
DATA: It is highly irregular to question the opposing advocate, but I see no reason to deny it. Proceed.
ARDRA: Please don't take any offense at these questions, you know how fond I am of you.
PICARD: Objection.
DATA: Sustained. The advocate will refrain from expressing personal affections for her opponent.
ARDRA: You do not believe my powers are real, do you.
PICARD: No, I don't.
ARDRA: Then, sir, may I ask you to explain this.
DATA: You are out of order.
ARDRA: Or this?
DATA: The advocate will refrain from making her opponent disappear.
ARDRA: Or this?
DEVIL: Can you explain it, Picard?
DATA: Any more disruptions and I will rule you in contempt of court. Is that understood?
ARDRA: I am sorry, your Honor, but can you explain it, Picard? Yes or no.
PICARD: No.
ARDRA: I rest my case, your Honor.

[Science station]
CLARK: The decay rate of these Z-particles makes it almost impossible to trace the source.
LAFORGE: I'm correlating particle trajectories. They're beginning to align. Wait a minute. I have coordinates thirty four degrees north, sixty two degrees east, at an altitude of two hundred ten kilometers.
CLARK: That would put it in orbit above the western magnetic pole, Running visual scan. Nothing.
LAFORGE: This time, I don't buy the magic. Something's got to be there.

[Athenaeum]
PICARD: Jared, you've described quite thoroughly the history of your people before and after Ardra's first visit. But I am a little unclear about the change itself. Did Ardra simply snap her fingers and transform the planet into this paradise?
JARED: No, the changes occurred gradually over a long period of time.
PICARD: Did she personally form the government that so peacefully ruled this planet for a millennium?
JARED: No, historical records indicate a council was convened to assess our options. They drew up a new constitution which the population later ratified.
PICARD: I see. So she advised this council?
JARED: No.
PICARD: No? Then she must have destroyed all the weapons on the planet.
JARED: No, our leaders did that. And they signed a treaty of non-aggression.
PICARD: Well then, let's move on to the environmental gains on Ventax Two. How were those accomplished
JARED: We shifted our economy from an industrial to an agrarian base. It was more ecologically sound.
PICARD: But Ardra must have purified the polluted water and air?
JARED: No, the record shows there were a series of initiatives covering everything from atmospheric contaminants to waste disposal.
PICARD: Did she not even pick up one piece of trash?
JARED: Ardra had left Ventax Two before the environmental reforms began.
PICARD: Forgive me, but it sounds as if with a great deal of hard work and courage, your ancestors changed this world all by themselves.
ARDRA: Objection. The advocate is drawing conclusions.
DATA: Sustained. I will draw my own conclusions, if you do not mind. Sir.
PICARD: No further questions.
DATA: Rebuttal?
ARDRA: Just two questions. Is there any doubt in your mind, any doubt at all, that if I had not intervened, the terrible conditions here would have continued? I remind you that you're under oath.
JARED: No doubt at all.
ARDRA: Then, as former head of state for the Ventaxian people, you are satisfied that I fulfilled my part of the bargain?
JARED: Yes, Ardra.
ARDRA: Thank you. Your Honor, what more can be said? Both sides agree the terms of the contract have been fulfilled.
DATA: Captain Picard, do you have any further evidence to present before I render judgment?
PICARD: I believe my associate, Mister La Forge, may be bringing the answer to that question. I request a recess.
LAFORGE: Hi, Data.
DATA: Geordi. One hour recess is granted.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, my reputation as a litigator, not to mention my immortal soul, is in serious jeopardy.
LAFORGE: Well, whatever's been going on over here gave us exactly what we needed.
PICARD: Have you identified the source of her power?
LAFORGE: A cloaked ship.
PICARD: She has a Romulan cloaking device?
LAFORGE: More likely a bad copy of one. We picked it up through a wavelength stretchout.
PICARD: The Enterprise?
LAFORGE: Exactly where it's supposed to be. Ardra extended her cloaking shields around it, set up a subspace damping field to interfere with normal operations. I've isolated the frequency spread and penetrated the field.
PICARD: Can you make contact?
LAFORGE: Already have.
PICARD: This is what I want to do, but we have less than an hour.
PICARD: Jared, you're a wise and experienced leader, and I assume you trust your senses?
JARED: Yes, I would say so.
PICARD: And all your senses tell you that this woman here is the most powerful force on this planet, don't they?
JARED: Yes.
PICARD: Then what would you say if I were to tell you that she has no powers whatsoever?
JARED: But we have seen her powers here.
ARDRA: That's right, and you will again.
PICARD: Oh, yes. Ardra's magic. Jared, would you believe me if I told you that I could steal her powers and perform the same magical acts as she?
JARED: I'm sorry, Captain Picard, but you are not Ardra.
PICARD: No, that's true. I'm not Ardra. but I can create tremors just as she did.
ARDRA: Objection, your honor!
DATA: I think he deserves some leeway. Overruled. But that will be quite enough, Captain.
PICARD: Of course. Ardra, will you would do the honors and stop the tremors?
ARDRA: Er, of course.
PICARD: Is something the matter?
ARDRA: I like the tremors.
PICARD: Well, I don't.
PICARD: You Recognize the old bag of tricks? What about this one? Come back, Ardra, if you can. No? Fine, allow me
ARDRA: Of all the impudence.
PICARD: Impudence?
FEK'LHR: Impudence is pretending to be Fek'lhr of Klingon.
DATA: Your leeway has run out, Captain.
PICARD: Your Honor, I appreciate your indulgence. Allow me to explain. A team from the Enterprise has taken control of this woman's ship now in orbit around Ventax Two. Thank you for your help, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Glad to be of service, sir.
PICARD: They have been monitoring me on my communicator, executing a prearranged program on her ship's computer, a fairly ingenious combination of force-field projection, holography and transporter effects. Ardra controls her magic literally by the blink of an eye. Centuries old technology. An implant which permits the movements of her eye to choose and activate each illusion. Ardra once told us that she is known by many names. Well, at least in that she was being honest. Her crew has admitted that she is known by twenty three aliases in this sector alone.
ARDRA: You had no right
PICARD: Deceiving innocent people with her petty schemes for years. Ventax Two must have offered her the greatest opportunity of her nefarious career. She learned of the myth of Ardra, studied it and expertly played on your fears that your people were ready to virtually surrender to her.
ARDRA: Your Honor, under the circumstances, I believe it is only fair that I release the Ventaxians from their obligation and I will let them keep the peace they have, and I will just be on my way.
DATA: With the advocate's withdrawal, the contract is hereby dissolved. This arbitration is adjourned.
JARED: Thank you, Captain Picard. You saved our lives.
PICARD: No, Jared. As I've tried to tell you, you saved your own lives a long time ago.
DATA: Congratulations, sir.
PICARD: Your Honor.
ARDRA: You would have had a lot more fun if you'd lost. Till we meet again, Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44502.7. Early completion of our mission at Harrakis Five has allowed me to grant extra personal time for many of the crew. This has come as something of a relief, since our recent tight scheduling has prevented pursuit of the leisure activities that are a normal part of life aboard the Enterprise. I expect our journey past the Ngame Nebula to be uneventful, and am personally using the time to fulfill a promise to a colleague.

[Hill's outer office]
GUINAN: Dixon Hill around?
MADELINE: He's occupied at the present moment.
GUINAN: Tell him Gloria's here.
MADELINE: Can't do that. He doesn't want to be disturbed.
GUINAN: Tell him it's Gloria from Cleveland.
MADELINE: Doesn't matter if you're from the moon, hon. Mister Hill is incommuni, incommunica, ka
GUINAN: Incommunicado.
MADELINE: That's it. Sorry, hon.
GUINAN: Look, hon. Just tell him Gloria's here.
MADELINE: Look, when the boss doesn't want to be disturbed, the boss doesn't want to be disturbed. Don't take it personal, like.
GUINAN: I have an appointment with Mister Hill at two o'clock.
MADELINE: It's two ten.
GUINAN: So I had a little trouble getting into the dress. It took me a little while to figure out exactly what I was supposed to do with these.
MADELINE: Sorry, Dix. There's a lady here to see you, says her name is
GUINAN: Gloria
MADELINE: Gloria.
GUINAN: From Cleveland.
MADELINE: From Cleveland. Okay. He never heard of you.
GUINAN: He's never heard of me?
MADELINE: That's right.
GUINAN: Oh, wait, I think you don't understand. You see, this was all been set up in advance. You see, I'm supposed to be Gloria from Cleveland, and I was supposed to be on holodeck number four at two o'clock and you don't have any idea what I'm talking about, do you. Not to worry.
MADELINE: Hey, you can't go in there!

[Hill's office]
JOHNNY: Get inside. Close the door. Who's the doll?
PICARD: She's a, the doll's my cousin.
GUINAN: Yeah. Gloria. From Cleveland.
PICARD: I'm sorry about this Gu, Gloria. I didn't actually mean you to get involved. She knows nothing about this, Johnny.
GUINAN: What does that mean? Oh, I see.
JOHNNY: Yeah, right. What do I look like? A jamoke? You ain't nobody's cousin and you ain't here for a visit. What do you know about my money?
GUINAN: Your money?
JOHNNY: The money he stole.
GUINAN: You stole his money?
PICARD: Don't listen to him, Gloria. He's lying.
GUINAN: Johnny. Johnny. Talk to me, Johnny. I'm a great listener.
JOHNNY: I'm finished with talking, sweetheart. Now, I'm going to get some action or else.
GUINAN: This is what you do for fun?
PICARD: It's a mystery. Who was this man? Who killed him? Where's the money he was talking about? It's a mystery. Now, we have to go search for clues.
GUINAN: Ah, and that's fun?
PICARD: That's fun. A forty eight Packard with white walls. Damn it, I couldn't get the license plate.
MADELINE (voiceover): Captain Picard? Sorry, there's no Captain Picard here. You should try down at the docks. Ships come
PICARD: It's all right, Madeline, I'll take it in here.
PICARD: Yes, what is it?
DATA (voiceover): Captain, Lieutenant Commander Data here. Please excuse the unusual interruption, but under the circumstances I thought that patching communications through the holodeck program would be less obtrusive.
PICARD: I appreciate your concern, Commander Data. What can I do for you?

[Bridge]
DATA: Long range sensors detect a T-tauri type star within a pocket of the Ngame cloud.

[Hill's office]
PICARD: Well, there's nothing unusual about that.

[Bridge]
DATA: No, sir. However, the star's single planet falls within the M-class range. It is capable of supporting life.

[Hill's office]
PICARD: That is unusual.
DATA (voiceover): Highly, sir.
PICARD: Well, thank you, Mister Data. Procedures require that we investigate. Recall the bridge crew and set in a course.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'm sorry, Gloria, but there is a twenty-fourth century mystery I have to investigate. You are very welcome to carry on, if you like.
GUINAN: No, I've had enough fun for today.

[Bridge]
MCKNIGHT: Entering the T-tauri system, now, Captain.
DATA: Sensors indicate an energy fluctuation directly in our path. Source unknown.
WORF: Still picking up energy distortions, but fading. It seems to be gone.
PICARD: A wormhole?
DATA: Very likely. Small and extremely unstable wormholes have been mapped near thirty nine T-tauri systems in the last one hundred years alone, sir.
RIKER: Captain, I suggest we move to a safer location. It could reappear at any moment.
PICARD: Agreed, Number One. Ensign, take us a course
DATA: Captain!
DATA: Captain?
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Careful, Captain. The stun effect from the wormhole was relatively severe.
PICARD: Apparently so. How long were we unconscious?
DATA: Approximately thirty seconds. I have scanned the entire ship and detected no life-threatening injuries among the crew.
PICARD: You were not affected?
DATA: No, sir. My positronic system is immune to the effect. This is the third unstable wormhole I have passed through during my time with Starfleet. The first was aboard the USS Trieste
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. Well, where the hell are we?
RIKER: Point five four parsecs from our original position. Almost a day's travel in just thirty seconds?
DATA: Sir, I should re-align the ship's clock with Starbase four ten's subspace signal to adjust for the time distortion.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain, this is Crusher in Sickbay.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I'm getting scattered reports

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Of minor injuries. What's happened?
PICARD (voiceover): The Enterprise just jumped through a wormhole.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Apparently we were all unconscious for about thirty seconds.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Is everybody all right there?
PICARD: There's little or no damage on the Bridge, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Acknowledged. Crusher out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ship's status?
RIKER: Reports coming in now. Nothing serious so far.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here, Captain. I've checked impulse engines and warp drives, sir. They appear to be unaffected.
WORF: Shields and weapons systems are fully functional.
PICARD: Counselor? Are you all right?
TROI: I think so. I'm feeling a bit unfocused. It'll pass.
PICARD: Well, not too bad, all things considered.
RIKER: We're lucky we didn't end up half way across the galaxy in the middle of next week.
DATA: That was never actually a possibility. The wormhole's small size and relatively short period would make this a local phenomenon.
PICARD: There's still the anomalous M-class planet we were going to investigate. Do we go back?
DATA: The unpredictability of the wormhole would make an investigation a hazardous one. A probe launched from our current position would be more advisable.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Nothing broken, Chief, but the ligaments around the elbow have been twisted pretty severely. What on earth were you doing when you fell?
O'BRIEN: Hanging a plant for Keiko. It's part of her running project to give me a green thumb.
CRUSHER: How's it working?
O'BRIEN: Everything I touch seems to turn brown and wither away.
CRUSHER: Alyssa, would you get me? Oh, never mind, I'll get it. You, don't go away.

[Sickbay lab]
CRUSHER: This isn't possible.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Alyssa?
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Did you see anybody near the lab today?
OGAWA: No, I didn't.
CRUSHER: You didn't by chance adjust the environments on the incubation containers?
OGAWA: I would never touch one of your experiments unless you asked me to, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Of course not. I'm sorry, Alyssa. Thank you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Probe approaching the T-tauri system, Captain.
PICARD: Readings, Data?
DATA: Coming in now, sir. The probe is within visual range of the planet.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Sensors indicate a hydrogen-helium composition with a frozen helium core.
RIKER: Wait a minute. Didn't your readings indicate a class M planet before we passed through the wormhole, Data?
DATA: It is possible the sensors were affected by interference from the wormhole, Commander. It is clearly not a class M planet.
PICARD: Mister Data, run a full diagnostic to make sure the wormhole didn't permanently damage the sensors.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, take us back on a course
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Problem, Number One?
RIKER: It seems awfully strange that a malfunctioning sensor would give such a specific misreading of a planet. I would have thought that a time-space disturbance would have caused a lot more confusion than that.
DATA: It is conceivable that the sensors picked up the afterimage of an actual planet on the other side of the wormhole. We could survey the nearby stars for such a planet. It would require approximately six days, sir.
PICARD: No, no, we don't have time for that. We've encountered a minor mystery, one that has been solved to my satisfaction. Number One, unless there's a major objection, then Ensign McKnight should put us back on course for Evadne Four.
RIKER: No objection.
PICARD: Ensign.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: I have something of a minor mystery on my hands.
PICARD: A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase these days. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were an enthnobotanist.
CRUSHER: It's a hobby.
PICARD: You've got a good crop here. As I recall, it's not easy to cultivate.
CRUSHER: That's just it. I started these spores right before we were all knocked unconscious by the wormhole. You said we were unconscious for thirty seconds?
PICARD: Correct.
CRUSHER: Then why do these show a full day's growth?
PICARD: Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain.
CRUSHER: Each of these incubators was set with spores from completely different sources in the Diomedian system. I have a dozen more in the lab. Perhaps something extraordinary happened to one of them, but not to all of them.
PICARD: Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything on board indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship's chronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including Commander Data.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I'm telling you this is over twenty four hours of growth.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds, despite Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Captain, I have a hypothesis. The twenty-second century physicist Pell Underhill conjectured that a major disruption in time continuity could be compensated for by trillions of counter reactions. That effect may have allowed Doctor Crusher's mosses to arrive at the other side of the worm hole with the unanticipated growth.
LAFORGE: Underhill was talking about energy.
DATA: True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could occur in matter at much higher levels of organization, given the proper conditions.
PICARD: Thank you, Data. An intriguing hypothesis. Well, perhaps we've got a tempest in a test tube, after all.
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him with the sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six.
DATA: As you wish, Captain.
PICARD: Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander.
LAFORGE: Not for a second. I'm amazed that he even proposed it.
WORF: What are you suggesting, Captain?
PICARD: I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell a lie, and yet.
CRUSHER: If we never went through that wormhole, then what happened to us during that day?
LAFORGE: If we were out for a whole day, why didn't our beards grow?
RIKER: Whatever it was it seems something Data doesn't want to tell us about.
PICARD: It could be that whatever caused this situation also affected Data. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is all just a minor mystery.
LAFORGE: We could always check the computer's chronometer, see if there's any evidence of tampering.
CRUSHER: A transporter trace analysis might give us another indication of how much time has actually passed.
PICARD: Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain our present course. If there is something wrong with Data, we don't want him to be aware of our suspicions.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Gentlemen, how goes the battle?
DATA: The long range and infra-red sensors apparently suffered ill effects as a result of the wormhole. We are presently checking neutrino and heavy particle detectors.
LAFORGE: Great. I'll take over now, Data. The Captain wants you back on the Bridge. See you later in Ten Forward?
LAFORGE: Nelson, I need your help with the computer.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Hello, Chief. How's the elbow?
O'BRIEN: Much better, thanks. This isn't a house call, is it?
CRUSHER: No, it's not. Tell me, do you remember the last person to use the transporter before we went through the wormhole?
O'BRIEN: Let me check. Ensign Locklin. She's one of my technicians.
CRUSHER: Tell her to report to Sickbay immediately.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Electrolyte concentration?
OGAWA: Twelve point five deviation from previous.
CRUSHER: Interesting. Check the cellular membranes. I'm willing to bet the internal turgid pressure is off by almost the same amount.
OGAWA: Eleven three deviation from the norm.
CRUSHER: Terrific. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you, Ensign Locklin. That'll be all for now.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I need to see you immediately.
PICARD (voiceover): I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Physiologically, each of us is on a daily cycle. Our cells have developed rhythms based on a twenty-four hour period.
PICARD: The internal clock.
CRUSHER: Exactly, and I can measure that effect at the molecular level. I took a trace from the last person to use the transporter before the incident, and compared her cell function levels at that time to what they are right now. If we were unconscious for only thirty seconds, those cycles should be nearly synchronous.
PICARD: And were they?
CRUSHER: No. We were out for longer than thirty seconds, Captain. A lot longer.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've got some good news, and some bad news. The good news is that we were right about the computer's chronometer. There's a security program to prevent tampering, but it looks now like it was disabled and a new program put in its place. Someone has reset the clock.
PICARD: If that's the good news, what's the bad news?
LAFORGE: That Data and I are the only ones aboard this ship capable of doing it.

[Ready room]
DATA: It is a mystery, Captain.
PICARD: That is an understatement, Data. Is it possible that someone or something could have affected you without your knowing?
DATA: I am unable to answer that question, sir.
PICARD: Data, would you consent to being examined by Commander La Forge?
DATA: As you wish, Captain.
PICARD: Will you escort Commander Data to Engineering?
DATA: I know the way, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It has become clear that everyone aboard the Enterprise has lost an entire day. As the mystery of what actually occurred during those missing hours continues to deepen, so do my doubts about Commander Data.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We'll start with the higher functions before we get down to basics. Okay. All right. Now, this won't hurt a bit.
DATA: Have you forgotten, Geordi, that my sensory inputs are not programmed to experience pain?
LAFORGE: A figure of speech. Bedside manner. I'm just trying to make you feel comfortable.
DATA: I am perfectly comfortable.
LAFORGE: Pattern recognition, syntactic algorithms, heuristic functions, all normal.
DATA: I have noticed, however, that you appear a bit uncomfortable yourself.
LAFORGE: It just seems like you're not being completely honest with us. Data, I'm your friend. If there's something wrong, I want you to tell me. Maybe I can help.
DATA: I cannot tell you anything beyond what I have already stated.
LAFORGE: Okay.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Excuse us, Counselor. Captain, I finished examining Data.
PICARD: And?
LAFORGE: Nothing's wrong with the technology, that I can see. He's in perfect condition.
PICARD: I was almost hoping that you'd find a problem.
LAFORGE: He still could be malfunctioning beyond my ability to detect it.
PICARD: This entire mystery started when our sensors detected that planet. First it was class-M, now it isn't.
RIKER: But our sensors were malfunctioning. Our probe clearly established the planet could not support life.
PICARD: Data launched that probe.
RIKER: If he rigged it, could you prove it?
LAFORGE: I could try.
PICARD: What happened to us in that missing day? Surely there must be some clues. Each of us should try and think what we were doing just before we blacked out. Reenact it if you have to.
WORF: Counselor?
PICARD: Deanna, are you all right?
TROI: Just a moment. Yes. Yes, I'm fine.
RIKER: What happened?
TROI: I suddenly became dizzy. I'd think I'd better go to my quarters.
PICARD: Perhaps Sickbay would be a better idea.
TROI: No. No, really, I'm all right.
PICARD: Will you see the Counselor to her quarters?
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
TROI: Thank you for coming with me, Mister Worf.
WORF: You are certain you are well?
TROI: I just need some rest. Thanks.
WORF: Deanna! Security! Override the lock on Counselor Troi's quarters! Now!

[Troi's quarters]
WORF: What's wrong?
TROI: The mirror. I came in here. I looked into the mirror. It wasn't me, Worf! It wasn't me! It was my face, but it wasn't me inside.
PICARD: Is she all right?
TROI: I feel fine, now.
CRUSHER: Signs of stress, adrenaline by-products higher than baseline. But that's a normal reaction after sudden fright. All brain functions check out okay.
PICARD: What happened, Deanna?
TROI: It wasn't what I saw, it was more what I felt. I looked into the mirror, and it seemed a stranger was staring back at me from behind my own eyes. As if my face was a mask.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Captain Picard.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I've found something, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Can I help you?
WORF: Perhaps not.
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here for something.
WORF: A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort, but the Captain ordered us to report anything out of the ordinary.
CRUSHER: Are you in pain? How did this happen?

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Do you recognize this planet, Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. It is the planet our probe detected in the T-tauri system.
LAFORGE: No it's not. Actually, it's Tethys three. I retrieved this image from the ship's library. Its geophysical figures have been slightly altered, but it's definitely Tethys three.
PICARD: Strange, that an obscure planet several hundred light years from here should be picked up by the probe. Data, did you take this image from the ship's library and program the probe to send it back to us?
DATA: I cannot verify that hypothesis.
PICARD: But you don't deny it.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, will you send another probe to the T-tauri system?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Data.
PICARD: Counselor Troi just had a very disturbing hallucination.
DATA: Is she all right, sir?
PICARD: For the moment. Can you tell me if Deanna's incident is related in any way to this missing time period?
DATA: No, sir, I cannot.
PICARD: Data, you're the key to this entire mystery and you've done nothing but block my every attempt to solve it. Why are you fighting me?
DATA: It is not by choice.
PICARD: What do you mean by that?
DATA: I cannot say.
PICARD: Would you rather endanger Deanna, a friend and a colleague, than tell me what is going on?!
DATA: Which would you place first, the welfare of a single individual or that of the entire crew?
PICARD: Are you saying that by not cooperating, you are actually protecting us?
DATA: I am not saying that at all. I merely state a possible alternative explanation.
PICARD: Then, Mister Data, I'm going to ask you again, and I order you to directly answer me. What really happened to us?
DATA: I cannot answer that.
PICARD: What would you have me do, Data? How would you handle this if our positions were reversed?
DATA: I am apparently guilty of falsifying the Enterprise's records, of interfering with an investigation, of disobeying a direct order from my commanding officer. Your duty seems clear, sir.
PICARD: Do you know what a court martial would mean? Your career in Starfleet would be finished.
DATA: I realize that, sir.
PICARD: Do you also realize that you would most likely be stripped down to your wires to find out what the hell has gone wrong?
DATA: Yes, sir. I do.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: This wrist has been broken. Broken and reset and treated with one of our subcutaneous bone fusion units.
PICARD: During the missing day?
CRUSHER: That's the only possibility.
PICARD: Are you suggesting he was conscious?
CRUSHER: I'm suggesting that maybe we all were. I certainly didn't repair a broken wrist while I was unconscious.
PICARD: And our memories of that day?
CRUSHER: Blocked, possibly erased.
PICARD: By whom?
WORF: There are very few individuals on board who could have broken my wrist. Commander Data is one of those individuals.
PICARD: I can't accept that explanation.
WORF: Well, he does possess the speed and the strength.
PICARD: Granted, but I'm beginning to suspect that Commander Data is refusing to co-operate because he believes he is acting in the best interests of the Enterprise.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Our probe is approaching the planet, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Maybe now we'll get some answers.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What do you have, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Visuals available now, Captain.
RIKER: M-class. Nickel-iron core, nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere.
PICARD: The same planet our sensors picked up before the so-called wormhole.
RIKER: Affirmative.
LAFORGE: No indication of any space-time distortion whatsoever. The probe should at least be detecting some residual effect, even if the wormhole is inactive.
PICARD: That's because there is no a wormhole. There never was.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: It was a ruse, designed to throw us off the track. Look at the clues. Doctor Crusher's incubation experiment, the computer clock, the transporter trace. All indicate the existence of a missing day. Lieutenant Worf's broken wrist would seem to suggest that we were awake and aware for that day, possibly in a struggle for our lives.
CRUSHER: The fact that we're still alive suggests we might have won.
PICARD: Not necessarily, Doctor. Data's behavior would seem to suggest we did not. Why else would he be willing to sacrifice his career rather than tell the truth?
WORF: If we didn't win and we didn't lose?
PICARD: Then the only alternative would be a stalemate. Maybe a compromise might have been reached, a compromise that forced Data into this silence.
RIKER: Maybe by uncovering all this, we run the risk of upsetting the stalemate. Maybe we should leave well enough alone.
PICARD: Possibly, Number One, and I would be prepared to live with the mystery, but Data's role in this must be ascertained or he'll never be trusted with starship duty again. Ensign, take us back to the scene of the crime. The T-tauri system, warp two.
MCKNIGHT: Within sensor range, Captain.
PICARD: Drop to impulse, Ensign. Mister Worf, maximum shields. Ready all weapons.
WORF: Shields up. Photon torpedoes armed. Phasers standing by. Captain, an energy field has appeared between our position and the planet.
PICARD: On screen. Hold position. Let's see what it does.
WORF: The field has emitted an energy pulse. Approaching the Enterprise.
RIKER: Too slow to be a photon torpedo.
WORF: It might be a probe.
PICARD: Let's see what happens when it hits the shields.
WORF: Shields undamaged. The energy pulse has dispersed.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Counselor Troi, what is it?
TROI: The plan has failed.
DATA: You have returned.
TROI: Your ship is again in our space.
DATA: I was unable to prevent it.
TROI: Nevertheless, you are here.
DATA: The Enterprise is not a threat to you. Give me more time. Our destruction would only
LAFORGE: Data, Captain wanted me to bring you to the Bridge. Counselor.
DATA: One moment, if you would.
DATA: Do nothing. It may yet be possible to salvage the situation.

[Bridge]
DATA: Reporting as ordered, Captain.
PICARD: Well, Data, as you can see, we're back where it all started.
DATA: We must leave immediately, sir.
PICARD: Why?
DATA: Any further delay would put us all at grave risk.
PICARD: Why? What is the source of that risk? The energy field?
DATA: I cannot say.
PICARD: Data, you sound as if you're stuck in a feedback loop. You certainly can say. You have free will, you have a choice.
DATA: My silence is not by choice, sir.
PICARD: Not by choice? Are you somehow being controlled by that force? Did Geordi miss something when he examined you?
DATA: Geordi's examination was exemplary.
PICARD: Then why are you compelled to disobey my orders? How? During the missing day, were you contacted by Starfleet? Did they order you to conceal the truth from us?
DATA: I cannot answer that. We must leave, sir.
PICARD: This ship isn't going anywhere. Not until I get an answer. Now who gave you that order?
DATA: You did, sir.
PICARD: I ordered you to lie?
WORF: Captain, the energy field is approaching.
RIKER: Maintain shields at full intensity.
DATA: No. We must vary shield shape and strength as rapidly as possible. Maximum shields will only speed the ship's takeover.
WORF: Contact imminent.
PICARD: Do as Data says. At once.
WORF: Aye, sir. The field is shifting amplitude, trying to match the shields.
DATA: The energy field will eventually penetrate our shields. There is no way to counter the Paxans' technology. We can delay their takeover but we cannot prevent it.
PICARD: The Paxans. Who are they?
TROI: You have invaded our system.
PICARD: No, Worf.
DATA: You will only harm Counselor Troi's body.
PICARD: We are not invaders. We are explorers.
TROI: Your knowledge of us is unacceptable.
DATA: They are xenophobes, sir. Isolationists. The Paxans terraformed a protoplanet in this system in order to better conceal their whereabouts. The apparent wormhole we experienced is actually a trap designed to keep out invaders. The energy field stuns everyone on board the invading vessel and places them in a state of biochemical stasis.
LAFORGE: That explains why our beards didn't grow.
DATA: The Paxans then take the ship out of their territory.
RIKER: So the crew wakes up and thinks they've been through a wormhole, count their blessings and keep going.
DATA: Precisely.
PICARD: What went wrong this time?
DATA: My positronic brain is a technology unknown to the Paxans.
TROI: Our stun field had no effect on him. He remained conscious while we tried to take over the ship.
DATA: When I realized the crew was incapacitated, I initiated emergency procedures

[Flashback - Bridge]
DATA: Computer, engage emergency plan zed zed alpha.
COMPUTER: Automatic defense procedures initiated. Energy field strength increasing. Warning, shield penetration seventeen percent.
DATA: Computer, begin random fluctuation of shield frequency and modulation.
COMPUTER: Executed.
DATA (voiceover): With the Enterprise temporarily protected, I revived the crew.
DATA: Computer, release compound ADTH into the airflow system, five parts per million.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Initiating compound release now.
PICARD: Status, Data.
DATA: The energy field is attempting to match shield frequencies, sir.
PICARD: Options, Mister Worf?
WORF: I do not recommend weapons at this range, Captain.
PICARD: Can we go to warp?
DATA: Negative, sir. The field is also acting as a tractor beam.
COMPUTER: Warning. Shields have been penetrated.
WORF: All systems are frozen, Captain.
DATA (voiceover): The Paxans can manipulate energy structures on many levels. They took control of Counselor Troi's body to communicate with us.
WORF: Captain!
PICARD: No, stop, everyone. Who are you?
TROI: You are aware of our existence. Our attempt to place you in biochemical stasis has failed. We have no choice but to destroy this ship.
PICARD: If you destroy this ship, then others will come in search of us. You may not be able to stop them all. Knowledge of your civilization would be spread across half the galaxy.
TROI: No.
PICARD: Allow us safe passage and I will protect your right to privacy to the best of my ability. We will never tell anyone of your existence.
TROI: There are over a thousand lifeforms on this vessel. How could you assure their silence?
PICARD: This biochemical stasis, does it suppress synaptic functions?
TROI: It does.
PICARD: Then you must have the capability of affecting memory. Can you erase the short-term memory of everyone on this ship, remove all knowledge of this event, allow us to proceed as if it had never happened?
TROI: It would take time. One of your days. He is immune to our influence.
PICARD: Data, I'm going to give you a most unusual order. I'm not sure that you will be able to integrate it into your program.
DATA: As a Starfleet officer, I am required to follow all of your orders, Captain.
PICARD: Good, because our survival depends upon it. I am ordering you never to reveal what has happened here today. Not to Starfleet, not to myself. You will conceal your knowledge of the Paxans for as long as you exist. Do you fully understood, Data?
DATA: Completely, sir.
PICARD: Satisfactory?
TROI: Agreed.
PICARD: Good. Now, our task is to eliminate from the ship's records any information that might lead to knowledge of this incident. Let's get to work.

[Bridge]
DATA: We proceeded to erase all evidence of our encounter with the Paxans. I reset the computer's chronometer and the crew was again stunned into unconsciousness, their short-term memories erased. When they were revived a day later, the computer adjustments made it appear that only thirty seconds had passed.
RIKER: And here we are.
PICARD: Here we are again.
TROI: Your plan has failed. This ship must be destroyed.
PICARD: No. Wait. The plan failed because clues were left behind that suggested a mystery. And to many humans, a mystery is irresistible. It must be solved. The Doctor's incubation experiment, Worf's wrist, Troi's hallucinations. Little pieces of evidence that suggested even more clues. The clock, the transporter trace, Data's odd behavior. If we eliminate the clues and begin again
TROI: Again?
PICARD: Yes. Consider the first time a run-through, a rehearsal to shake out the flaws. The second time will succeed if we leave no clues.
TROI: You are a most unusual species. Worthy of a second chance. Proceed.
RIKER: Deanna?
PICARD: Welcome back. Counselor. Geordi, Data, reconfigure the computer and the records. Number One, I want you to oversee the rest of the ship. And this time, let's get it right.
PICARD: What happened, Data?
DATA: The effect from the wormhole was rather intense.
PICARD: So it would seem.
DATA: Everyone but myself was rendered unconscious. My positronic system is immune to the effect.
PICARD: How long were we out?
DATA: Thirty seconds, Sir.
RIKER: Current position?
MCKNIGHT: Point five four parsecs from our previous position. Bearing two eight five mark one four seven.
PICARD: It could be worse.
DATA: Yes, sir. The wormhole appears to have been a local phenomenon.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Bridge. What happened, Captain?
PICARD: The Enterprise went through a wormhole, Doctor. It seems the entire crew was unconscious for approximately thirty seconds.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Is anyone on the Bridge hurt?
PICARD: Apparently not.
CRUSHER: I'll start checking the other decks. Crusher out.
PICARD: Status reports?
WORF: Shields and weapons systems unaffected.
RIKER: No damage in Engineering.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There's a general feeling of disorientation on board, but nothing serious as far as I can tell.
PICARD: Well, then. There's still that anomalous class-M planet we were going to investigate. Ensign, replot a course to take us back to
DATA: Sir, it is likely the anomalous readings were the result of the wormhole's effect. It was extremely unstable. I would recommend against returning. It might put the Enterprise at further risk.
RIKER: We could launch a probe.
DATA: That would certainly be sufficient, sir.
PICARD: Make it so. And put out a hazard advisory to Starfleet. Ensign, set a course to Evadne Four.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Medical Facility]
NURSE: Watch the door. Careful, he may have suffered cranial damage.
TAVA: Move him onto the diagnostic pad.
NURSE: Right.
TAVA: Slowly.
NURSE: Right, here we go.
TAVA: Slowly. That's good.
NURSE: All right. Careful.
NILREM: Readings?
NURSE: They're fluctuating, sir.
NILREM: He took a severe blow. Possible trauma to the telencephalon.
TAVA: Start fifteen octares of quadroline. We'll need a complete del-scan series.
NILREM: I can't find his cardial organ.
TAVA: What do you mean? I'm reading a steady circulation.
NILREM: There it is. Up here.
TAVA: In his digestive tract?
NILREM: Ever seen anything like this?
TAVA: He's missing three costal struts on one side and four on the other.
NILREM: You think that's something? Look at this
NILREM: He has digits on his terminus.
TAVA: What are you?

[Riker's hospital room]
RIKER: What happened?
BEREL: You're in the crisis room at the Sikla Medical Facility. You've had a severe injury, but you're going to be all right.
RIKER: I was caught in the riots when the police moved in. It's the last thing I remember.
BEREL: Can you tell us your name?
RIKER: Rivas. Rivas Jakara.
BEREL: Rivas Jakara? Where do you live?
RIKER: In the Marta community on the southern continent.
TAVA: You're a long way from home. Do you have any members of your family we should notify?
RIKER: No, I have no family. I can't stay here. I have to get back.
BEREL: You're in no condition to leave yet. There are several unusual things about your case, Mister Jakara. Your cranial lobes, for instance, they seem to be surgical implants.
RIKER: I had cosmetic surgery to correct a genetic birth defect.
BEREL: And these? Another birth defect?
RIKER: Yes, isn't that something? My father's were the same way.
NILREM: You want us to believe that all your abnormalities are inherited genetic traits?
RIKER: I understand your confusion. My personal physician is much more familiar with these genetic irregularities. To be honest, I would much feel better back home under her care.
BEREL: Why don't I talk to her about that. What's her name?
RIKER: Crusher. Actually, I'm not sure you'll be able to reach her.
BEREL: Why not?
RIKER: She's taking a sabbatical.
BEREL: Well, we'll do the best we can for you. Oh, there was one other thing. We found this curious-looking device in your clothes. What is it?
RIKER: It's just a toy. I was taking home as a present.
BEREL: I thought you didn't have any family.
RIKER: It's for a neighbor's child. Was there anything else found? I had one piece of jewelry, a metal pin.
BEREL: No, I'm sorry, this was all we found.

[Medical Facility Corridor]
NILREM: Genetic irregularities? That thing isn't even the same species as we are.
BEREL: Keep your voice down. The last thing we need is a panic in here over some
NILREM: It's all the space flights. They have attracted creatures from outer space.
BEREL: That's exactly the kind of thing I don't want to hear.
TAVA: What are you going to do?
BEREL: Of all the medical facilities available, why did he have to end up here?
NILREM: I think we ought to call Central Security.
BEREL: Well, I'm not calling anybody yet. Not till we've done a lot more. A lot more. I want his story checked out. Run a complete search through the medical library. Be absolutely certain there's never been anything like him.
NILREM: What if there're more of them? They could be everywhere.
BEREL: Cordon off the wing. I want security on his door twenty nine hours a day, and I want this kept quiet.
VOICE (voiceover): Code three drill in B wing. All instructors report immediately.

[Durken's office]
MIRASTA: At twelve point four after launch, the warp field generator will be activated.
DURKEN: That's when it would break the light barrier?
MIRASTA: Yes, Chancellor. If we're successful, the craft will leave our star system, and in a matter of minutes will be on its way to the Garth system.
KROLA: And then what?
MIRASTA: And then, Krola, we'll see what's there.
DURKEN: How long, Mirasta?
MIRASTA: We have the prototype design for the warp engine. It would simply be a matter of building the actual production units. If I get your approval today, ten months, maybe less.
KROLA: Chancellor, I'll admit Mirasta's enthusiasm for her work is seductive, but perhaps we're moving too fast. Your opponents will see this as another example of your determination to pull us further from our traditional ways.
DURKEN: My opponents look back as I look forward. I cannot believe that my people would choose to retreat after all we've done.
MIRASTA: I agree.
KROLA: The people were willing to accept your social reforms because they believe in you, Chancellor. But there are many who say we have gone far enough. All these new ideas, new technology, and now space travel? It confuses them, frightens them.
DURKEN: I will not allow them to remain in the dark ages. The warp program will proceed as you have outlined, Mirasta. And then we will slow down, Krola, to let everyone catch their breath. Including you.

[Mirasta's lab]
PICARD: Mirasta Yale?
MIRASTA: Yes.
TROI: Please, don't be alarmed at our appearance.
PICARD: My name is Jean-Luc Picard. This is my associate Deanna Troi.
MIRASTA: What are you?
TROI: We've come with some important information.
MIRASTA: About what?
PICARD: About space. About the universe you are preparing to enter.
TROI: We come from a federation of planets. Captain Picard is from a planet called Earth, which is over two thousand light years from here. I'm from another planet called Betazed.
PICARD: We've been monitoring your progress toward warp-drive capability. When a society reaches your level of technology and is clearly about to initiate warp travel, we feel the time is right for first contact. We prefer meeting like this, rather than a random confrontation in deep space.
TROI: We've come to you first because you're a leader in the scientific community. Scientists generally accept our arrival more easily than others.
PICARD: We almost always encounter shock and fear on this sort of mission. We hope that you will help us facilitate our introduction.
MIRASTA: Is this a joke? Did Lupo and the others from the lab put you up to this?
PICARD: It's certainly no joke. As you can see, we are physically quite different from Malcorians. And, with your permission, I'm prepared to prove it to you.
MIRASTA: I would like that.
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Three to beam up.

[Ten Forward]
MIRASTA: It's everything I've ever dreamed of. When I was a child, my parents would take me to the planetarium and we would sit in the dark and it was as if I was on a spaceship, on my way to another world to meet people on other planets. Part of me keeps waiting for the lights to come up and the program to end. How did you know about me?
PICARD: We learn as much as possible about a planet before we make first contact.
TROI: One of the things we monitor are your broadcast signals, your journalism, your music, your humor. Try to better understand you as a people.
MIRASTA: I hate to think how you would judge us based on our popular music and entertainment.
PICARD: Indeed, we do get an incomplete picture, which is why we also do surface reconnaissance.
MIRASTA: You've had people on our planet?
TROI: For several years.
PICARD: These are specialists, highly trained observation teams, superficially identical to yourselves and therefore able to blend naturally into your society. You see, we have discovered that the most hazardous aspect of these missions is a lack of sufficient information
MIRASTA: You don't have to explain. I understand, although not everybody on my planet would. They would think you were trying to infiltrate our society.
PICARD: There is a difficulty here, one that has forced us to accelerate this entire process. One of our people is missing. My First Officer, Commander William Riker. He was down on the planet surface, coordinating with the observation team the final details of contact. He disappeared. My people have made enquiries but they've not been able to locate him. If there is anything you can help
MIRASTA: Of course. Where was Riker's last known location?
TROI: The capital city. He was under the name of Rivas Jakara, a tourist from the Marta community.
MIRASTA: We must find him before someone realizes what he really is. If this gets out prematurely, it could seriously complicate matters. Our ideology is based on the assumption that the Malcorian is a supreme lifeform, and our world is the center of the universe. Your arrival will change our entire understanding of life, and some will not want it to change.
PICARD: What about Durken?
MIRASTA: Durken. He will be open-minded, but cautious. I strongly suggest that you do not discuss your surveillance teams with him. At least not right away.
PICARD: But with the disappearance of Commander Riker, wouldn't it be prudent
MIRASTA: Captain Picard, I must ask you to trust me on this. If you tell the Chancellor about Commander Riker, you will undermine everything that you hope to accomplish here. Durken will assign Krola, our Minister of Security, to find him. Krola has his own political agenda. He will perceive you as the greatest threat that our people have ever known. And he will not hesitate to use Riker to prove that he is correct.

[Medical Facility Corridor]
NURSE: From another planet, hundreds of them.
NILREM: It doesn't make sense that he's the only one. Think about it.
BEREL: I thought I said this was to be kept a secret.
TAVA: You know Nilrem.
BEREL: Well, it's getting out of control. I don't know what else he is, but he is still a patient in this medical facility and we have a responsibility for his care and recovery. Remind them of that, will you?
TAVA: You're not going to be able to contain this much longer.
BEREL: I know.
TAVA: If people get scared enough, anything could happen

[Riker's hospital room]
BEREL: Mister Jakara, we have been unable to confirm anything you told us. No physician named Crusher is on file. Not on this planet. Your address in Marta's an eating establishment. The cook has never heard of Rivas Jakara.
RIKER: Obviously there's been some misunderstanding.
BEREL: There's a growing number of people on the other side of that door who believe you are not one of us, Mister Jakara.
RIKER: Not one of you?
BEREL: That you are from another planet. Are you, Mister Jakara?
RIKER: Do you realize what you're saying?
BEREL: I know how it sounds. I'm not anxious to make a fool of myself. This new era of space flight, it fires the imagination. People see unidentified vessels in the sky that turn out to be weather balloons.
RIKER: Well, it's far more likely that I am a weather balloon than an alien.
BEREL: Our medical journals have documented several cases of genetic mutation in recent history. Some unusual physical disfigurations have occurred.
RIKER: I'm another case for the medical journals, then.
BEREL: Perhaps. But you, Mister Jakara, are hiding something, and unless you tell me the truth about yourself, this rumor will persist and grow and could even become dangerous. Most especially to you.

[Durken's office]
MALE (voiceover): Chancellor, Minister Yale of the Space Bureau would like to introduce you to someone.
DURKEN: Call her back. See if the Vice-Chancellor will do.
MALE (voiceover): They're out here waiting to see you, sir.
DURKEN: All right. Send them in.
DURKEN: Always time to meet your friends, Mirasta.
MIRASTA: Chancellor, I think you might want to clear your afternoon schedule for this.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And this is the Bridge.
MIRASTA: Chancellor.
PICARD: Here we have Environmental and Engineering stations, mission operations, and the two principal science stations.
PICARD: Data, allow me to introduce Chancellor Avel Durken and Space Administrator Mirasta Yale.
DATA: Chancellor. Minister.
PICARD: Commander Data is my Second Officer.
MIRASTA: He's an android, Chancellor. A constructed being.
DURKEN: A machine?
DATA: In a manner of speaking. The term artificial lifeform would be more accurate.
DURKEN: Captain Picard, is there someplace we might speak together without distraction?
PICARD: Certainly.
MIRASTA: Chancellor, with your permission, I would like to beam to the surface. I have several matters to attend to.
DURKEN: Not a word to anyone about this, Mirasta.
MIRASTA: Of course.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you escort the Minister to the transporter room? Chancellor.
MIRASTA: Has there still been no communication from Commander Riker, Data?
DATA: No, Minister. He has not returned to our designated transport coordinates. We have continued to scan the capital city without success.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I've been saving this for a special occasion. My brother on Earth produces fruit known as grapes, which he turns into wine. He's really quite good at it. Chancellor, we have a tradition called a toast. It is a drink to salute one's friends and good fortune, and I would like to propose a toast to a new friendship.
DURKEN: We have something very much like this here on Malcor Three.
PICARD: I think we shall find we have much in common.
DURKEN: And much that is not in common.
PICARD: An opportunity to learn from one another.
DURKEN: You speak the language of diplomacy very well, Captain. It is a language I appreciate and understand, but I have learned to not always trust it.
PICARD: Trust requires time and experience.
DURKEN: My world's history has recorded that conquerors often arrived with the words, we are your friends.
PICARD: We are not here as conquerors, Chancellor.
DURKEN: What do you want?
PICARD: A beginning. But how we proceed is entirely up to you.
DURKEN: And if my wishes should conflict with yours?
PICARD: There'll be no conflict.
DURKEN: And if I should tell you to leave and never return to my world?
PICARD: We will leave and never return. Chancellor, we are here only to help guide you into a new era. I can assure you we will not interfere in the natural development of your planet. That is, in fact, our Prime Directive.
DURKEN: I can infer from that directive that you do not intend to share all this exceptional technology with us.
PICARD: That is not the whole meaning, but it is part of it.
DURKEN: Is this your way of maintaining superiority?
PICARD: Chancellor, to instantly transform a society with technology would be harmful and it would be destructive,
DURKEN: You're right, of course. I'm overwhelmed, Captain Picard. I'm quite overwhelmed. I go home each night to a loving wife, two beautiful daughters. We eat the evening meal together as a family, I think that's important. And they always ask me if I've had a good day.
PICARD: And how shall you answer them tonight, Chancellor?
DURKEN: I will have to say this morning, I was the leader of the universe as I knew it. This afternoon, I am only a voice in a chorus. But I think it was a good day.

[Riker's hospital room]
LANEL: There are guards out there. You'll never escape that way. I'm not afraid of you.
RIKER: Good. Because there's nothing to be afraid of.
LANEL: We shouldn't fear the unknown. We should embrace it.
RIKER: Can you help me get out of here?
LANEL: Are you really an alien? It's all right to tell me.
RIKER: No, I'm not an alien.
LANEL: I don't believe you. You are an alien.
RIKER: I really have to leave.
LANEL: I could divert the guard's attention. You might stand a chance if you took the service exit down the hallway to the right.
RIKER: To the right? Fine, let's do it.
LANEL: Why should I?
RIKER: Well, you know why. I don't belong here. I have to get back on my ship, in space.
LANEL: I believe you.
RIKER: Now, will you help me?
LANEL: If you make love to me.
RIKER: What?
LANEL: I've always wanted to make love with an alien.
RIKER: Listen, Miss
LANEL: Lanel.
RIKER: Lanel, I really have to get going. All the other aliens are waiting for me.
LANEL: Oh, it's not so much to ask, and then I'll help you escape.
RIKER: It's not that easy. There are differences in the way that my people make love.
LANEL: I can't wait to learn.
RIKER: But it's
LANEL: It's your only way out of here, my alien.

[Medical Facility Corridor]
LANEL: Something's happened to him. I think he's dead. Go on, get some help.
LANEL: Okay. No, that way.
RIKER: Thanks.
LANEL: Will I ever see you again?
RIKER: I'll call you the next time I pass through your star system.
NILREM: Stop him! Somebody stop him!
NURSE: Hold it.
VOICE (voiceover): He's escaping! The alien's escaping!
BEREL: Stop it! All of you! Stop it now! Have you all lost your minds?
TAVA: They've aggravated the injury to his renal organ. He's bleeding internally.
BEREL: Get him into a surgical cubicle. And call Central Security. This has gone too far.

[Durken's office]
DURKEN: Their leader, Picard, has made it clear that how we proceed is entirely our own decision.
KROLA: You cannot possibly be suggesting surrender, Chancellor.
MIRASTA: They are not hostile.
KROLA: Mirasta, you are incredibly naive. Can you be so enraptured with the notion of space travelers that you are blind to the threat they represent?
DURKEN: I have seen their vessel, Krola. If they chose to be hostile, I do not think we would be standing here now.
KROLA: Why should they use force when we are ready to lay down in fear.
DURKEN: I do not lay down in fear, to them or to you, Krola.
KROLA: Chancellor, I mean no disrespect, but I have repeatedly warned you about your policies, taking us so quickly where we had no business going in the first place. New philosophies, new economics, new technologies. There are many people who still value our traditional way of life and I for one am willing to die to defend it.
MIRASTA: Open your eyes, Krola. We are part of a greater community. We cannot ignore it.
KROLA: You would ignore them as they infiltrate and spy on us.
DURKEN: What are you saying, Krola?
KROLA: We have captured one of their spies.
MIRASTA: Chancellor, he is Captain Picard's first officer, Commander Riker.
DURKEN: You knew about this, Mirasta?
MIRASTA: He has been missing for two days. I told Captain Picard not to discuss this because I was afraid this is exactly what would happen.
DURKEN: What else do you know, Mirasta? Everything!
MIRASTA: They have been on our planet, observing, for several years.
KROLA: Years! Imagine what they have done. Influenced our young, stirred up dissent.
MIRASTA: They were collecting information.
DURKEN: Where is this Commander Riker now?
KROLA: He's in the Sikla Medical facility. He's recovering from surgery. He suffered head injuries in an escape attempt. He will recover consciousness in a few hours.

[Riker's hospital room]
KROLA: Will he survive?
BEREL: I didn't think he would have survived the injuries.
KROLA: I have to interrogate him before he dies.
BEREL: At least give him time to regain some strength. Come back tomorrow.
KROLA: It cannot wait until tomorrow.
MIRASTA: Krola, we can get help from his ship. With their medical technology, he might recover.
KROLA: We're not giving him back. He's the one advantage we have now. Use your drugs to revive him.
BEREL: Those drugs increase cardial rate and vascular pressure. That's the last thing we need to do to him right now.
MIRASTA: It will probably be enough to kill him. You can't do it!
KROLA: Revive him.
BEREL: I'm just a physician, Minister. I don't know much about affairs of state, but he is a living, intelligent being. I don't care if the Chancellor himself calls down here. I have sworn an oath to do no harm, and I will not.
KROLA: Then I'll find someone to replace you.

[Durken's office]
PICARD: Chancellor.
DURKEN: You are punctual, Captain.
PICARD: I know how busy you are.
DURKEN: Do you? I think you know a great deal more about me than I know about you.
PICARD: In what respect?
DURKEN: You speak of trust and peace and working together to enter a new era, and at the same time you conduct secret surveillance posing as Malcorians.
PICARD: Commander Riker?
DURKEN: Commander Riker.
PICARD: Mirasta said it would be a mistake to discuss this with you.
DURKEN: Yes, she's tried to accept the responsibility.
PICARD: It was my error, not hers. Chancellor, there is no starship mission more dangerous than that of first contact. We never know what we will face when we open the door on a new world, how we will be greeted, what exactly the dangers will be. Centuries ago, a disastrous contact with the Klingon Empire led to decades of war. It was decided then we would do surveillance before making contact. It was a controversial decision. I believe it prevented more problems than it created.
DURKEN: I can appreciate the logic of your position, Captain. But it would seem a full disclosure after contact would have been in order.
PICARD: In time there would have been full disclosure. I can only ask you to believe that. On other worlds it would not be an issue. But here, everything our observers reported indicated that the people of this world would almost certainly react negatively to our arrival. We could see that even surveillance might even be interpreted as an act of aggression. I hoped that we would have found Commander Riker before you did so the matter would not complicate our introduction. It was a mistake.
DURKEN: Yes. A mistake I might have made in your place. I rather like it actually.
PICARD: Like it?
DURKEN: That you make mistakes like any man.
PICARD: Chancellor, I have made some fine ones in my time. Now, I must ask you, will you release my officer?
DURKEN: We'll talk again later, Captain.
PICARD: Enterprise, one to beam up.

[Riker's hospital room]
BEREL: Yes I understand.
BEREL: I have been relieved of my duties, as I'm sure you already know. You are Acting Director of the facility, Nilrem.
KROLA: Revive him.
KROLA: Leave us.
KROLA: I am Minister Krola of Internal Security. You are Riker, an alien. Yes, we know.
RIKER: Please bring my people here.
KROLA: In time. In time. But first I need to ask you some questions.

[Durken's office]
MIRASTA: Thank you for seeing me.
DURKEN: If I did not depend so much on your expertise in space matters, I would have asked for your resignation.
MIRASTA: I felt I was acting in the best interests of our people, Chancellor.
DURKEN: When you are selected to occupy this office, then you will have the privilege of deciding the best interests of our people. Picard I can excuse, but you, Mirasta, you should have trusted me.
MIRASTA: Chancellor, we must release Riker to Picard Any hope for a relationship with these people depends on it.
DURKEN: I can't afford to be the idealist you are, Mirasta.
MIRASTA: Riker
DURKEN: I am prepared to release Riker after we have interrogated him.
MIRASTA: Are you prepared for him to die, Chancellor? His injuries are extremely serious. A mob at the medical facility almost killed him. Krola has ordered drugs to be used to revive him for questioning, drugs that in his condition would be dangerous for him. Without medical aid from his ship, I believe that Riker will not survive the day. You must tell Picard where he is.

[Riker's hospital room]
KROLA: You have lied since the moment of your capture and I believe you are lying now, Commander.
RIKER: No. We're here on a mission of peace.
KROLA: Such noble creatures. Why do peaceful people develop such lethal weapons? Or do you still insist it's just a toy?
KROLA: An interesting toy, to be sure.
RIKER: It's only used for defense.
KROLA: Perhaps, like many conquerors, you believe your goals to be benevolent. I cannot. For however you would describe your intentions, you still represent the end to my way of life. I cannot permit that to occur. Eventually, Durken would choose to welcome your people with arms open and eyes closed. I must force him down another path.
KROLA: When they find us, I will be dead, killed by your weapon. The lines will be drawn. A peaceful accord will no longer be an option.
RIKER: No.
KROLA: For my people.
TAVA: What happened?
NILREM: He shot him. The alien shot Krola.
TAVA: Get me three octares of adrulmine, high frequency EM charge unit now!
NILREM: I have a circulation pattern. It's very weak. We have to get him on vital buffers right now
CRUSHER: I'm a physician, don't be frightened. I need to know what happened. Are you doctors?
TAVA: Yes. He shot him.
NILREM: With that thing.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Commander Riker is near death.

[Durken's office]
CRUSHER (voiceover): But there's still some brain activity. I need to get him back to the ship.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER (voiceover): And there's a Malconian male with a phaser wound in his upper chest. I need to get him back as well.
PICARD: We'll meet you on the Enterprise. Picard out.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: They're both going to be okay. We were able to stabilize Will. If we had been any later
DURKEN: Krola?
CRUSHER: He was never in any real danger. The phaser was on stun.
MIRASTA: Stun?
PICARD: It's a defensive weapon. Have you been able to ascertain what happened?
CRUSHER: Based on the angle of impact, it suggests that Krola's left hand was on the phaser when it went off,
DURKEN: They were struggling for the weapon?
CRUSHER: Commander Riker was in no position to offer any kind of struggle, Chancellor.
MIRASTA: Krola was trying to be a martyr?
KROLA: Where is this?
DURKEN: You're aboard the starship, my foolish old friend.
KROLA: No. Chancellor, you must not. You must not pursue relations with them. You must not.
DURKEN: I know. I know.

[Ready room]
MIRASTA: But Chancellor
DURKEN: Mirasta, it goes against every instinct in my being. My people are not ready to accept what you represent. Everything that happened in the hospital proves it. And Krola is the best evidence of all. We must slow down and allow all those like him to join us in the present before we can move into the future.
MIRASTA: But when we encounter other beings in space, our people must be ready.
DURKEN: The warp program will have to be delayed. We will divert more resources to education and social development to prepare for the day when we are ready.
MIRASTA: Chancellor, I strongly disagree.
DURKEN: I know. Captain, you once said if I ask you to leave, you would without hesitation. I'm afraid I must ask you to do just that.
PICARD: Well, it's your decision, Chancellor. But I must say, I regret that I won't have the opportunity of knowing your people better.
DURKEN: We're a good people, Captain. A society with much potential. Once we cross the threshold of space, we will have to give up this self-importance, this conceit that we are the center of the universe. But this is not the time for that. For now, we will have to enjoy that sweet innocence.
PICARD: How will you keep us a secret when so many have seen and heard so much?
DURKEN: The stories will be told for many years, I have no doubt. Of the ship that made contact, of an alien who was held prisoner in the medical facility. There'll be charges of a government conspiracy. Some of the witnesses will tell their tales and most people will laugh at them, and go back and watch more interesting fiction of the daily broadcasts. It will pass.
MIRASTA: I'm sorry to say he's probably right. Captain Picard, I have one last request. Take me with you.
DURKEN: She will be unhappy with the restrictions I must place on her at home, Captain.
PICARD: We may not be back here in your lifetime. And I have to believe that you cannot be fully prepared for the realities of space travel.
MIRASTA: I have been prepared for the realities of space since I was nine years old, and sitting in a planetarium.
PICARD: Mister Worf to my Ready room.
PICARD: Escort Chancellor Durken to the transporter room, Lieutenant. And assign quarters to Minister Yale. She will be remaining on board.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Until we return, then.
DURKEN: With luck, we'll both be around to renew our friendship, Captain.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
LAFORGE: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. It seems that the exemplary nature of your work has caught the attention of Starfleet Command. In fact, someone is coming on board just to see the engine modifications you've made.
LAFORGE: Who, Captain?
PICARD: The Senior Design Engineer of the Theoretical Propulsion Group. Doctor Leah Brahms.
LAFORGE: Leah is coming here? This is terrific.
PICARD: It is?
LAFORGE: Well, I mean, I've studied her schematics for years. She was responsible for a lot of the engine design on the Enterprise.
PICARD: Well, it should be a very enjoyable visit, then. She'll be transporting on board as soon as we reach the Starbase. Would you like to greet her on our behalf?
LAFORGE: I would love to, Captain. Thank you.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: If you keep picking at that uniform you'll wear it out.
LAFORGE: I guess I am a little nervous. It's not every day a man comes face to face with his dream.
GUINAN: What?
LAFORGE: You remember about a year ago when we were caught in that booby trap the Menthars set? Okay. While we were trying to get out of it, I went down to the holodeck to study an engine prototype that was made when the Enterprise was first designed. And the computer, well, it gave me an image of the engine but it also created this hologram of the designer. Doctor Leah Brahms.
GUINAN: So you met a computer-simulated female.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but not an ordinary computer-simulated female. I mean, she was brilliant, of course, but warm, you know? Friendly. It' was like we worked as one. I would start a sentences, she'd finish it. What I didn't think of, she did. It was just so comfortable. Okay, I know it was just a holographic image but the computer was able to incorporate personality traits from her Starfleet record.
GUINAN: You know, Geordi, everybody falls in love with a fantasy every now and then.
LAFORGE: No, no, Guinan, see, you've got it all wrong. I'm not necessarily expecting anything romantic here. It's just I know whatever, Leah Brahms and I are going to be good friends.

[Transporter room]
CREWWOMAN: Doctor Brahms is ready to transport, sir.
LAFORGE: Okay, bring her over.
LAFORGE: Hi. I mean, welcome aboard, Doctor Brahms. I'm Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge, Chief Engineer.
LEAH: La Forge. So you're the one who's fouled up my engine designs.

[Engineering]
LEAH: The matter-antimatter ratio has been changed. The mixture isn't as rich as regulations dictate.
LAFORGE: Experience has shown me that too high a ratio diminishes efficiency. I worked with the mixture until I got the right balance.
LEAH: The magnetic plasma transfer to the warp field generators doesn't correspond to the recommended specs.
LAFORGE: Right. Again, I adjusted the flow. Sometimes things happen a little differently here is space than they do on the drawing board.
LEAH: Is that a criticism, Commander?
LAFORGE: No, of course not. It's just a well known fact. There's theory and there's application. They don't always jibe.
LEAH: You've charted a completely new swap-out schedule for main components replacement.
LAFORGE: You bet. I found the Starfleet estimates for the MTBF units to be unrealistic. I simply determined my own schedule based on observation and experience.
LEAH: Is that going to be your only defense, Commander, that same tired rhetoric? Out here in the field we learn things you designers couldn't possibly understand.
LAFORGE: In the first place, Doctor, I'm not aware of needing any defense. And in the second place, if you're determined to be.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Doctor Brahms, you have an incoming message on subspace.
LEAH: I'd like to hear this message privately.
LAFORGE: In my office. Be my guest.
LEAH: Thank you.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up some unusual readings from the Alpha Omicron system. At this range, all I am able to discern is that it is an asymmetrical field of intense energy.
RIKER: What type of radiation signature?
DATA: Unknown, sir. The Alpha Omicron system is yet to be charted. I recommend we take this opportunity for further research.
RIKER: Well, we're way ahead of schedule. Alter course for Alpha Omicron.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Doctor Brahms, there's no reason for us to argue. We're on the same side here.
LEAH: I'm aware of that.
LAFORGE: So, why don't I take you on a little tour, show you the adjustments I've made, why I think they work and we can begin pulling together on this? Okay. Then why not start with the dilithium chamber. Okay?
LEAH: Okay.

[Bridge]
DATA: The anomaly is orbiting the seventh planet, sir. It is a mass of plasma energy contained within discrete boundaries by an outer covering of silicates, actinides, and carbonaceous chondrites.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify. Is it a ship?
WORF: It does not conform to any known design.
RIKER: Any records of similar phenomena in Starfleet listings?
DATA: None, sir. This has never been seen before.
PICARD: Ensign Rager, ahead one quarter impulse.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Put us in orbit of the seventh planet. Keep us at a relative distance of ten kilometers from the object.
RIKER: Alert science stations to standby. Tell them to coordinate all efforts with Commander Data.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LEAH: What happened here? Who did this?
LAFORGE: You remember, the crystal's been reoriented to adjust the direction of the lattice structure.
LEAH: Remember? Why would I remember?
LAFORGE: Right, why would you? Well, the ship was experiencing some difficulty, and we made this adjustment hoping that it would work, and it did.
LEAH: So it was your idea?
LAFORGE: Not exclusively, no.
LEAH: It's curious. this modification was due to be introduced.
LAFORGE: In the next class starship.
LEAH: Yes. How did you know?
LAFORGE: I didn't. I mean, well, it's the next logical step, right? Listen, Doctor, sometimes we have to fly by the seat of our pants out here so it stands to reason that once in a while we're going to come up with the same solutions you do. Listen. I've got a personnel review scheduled to start in about five minutes, and I know it's been a long day for you. So, why don't we get together later? Sort of plan our agenda for the next day or two?
LEAH: Agenda?
LAFORGE: What it is we want to accomplish here, how we might best go about that, maybe even get to know each other a little bit. It might make this easier.
LEAH: Maybe you're right.
LAFORGE: Okay, great. How about my quarters. Nineteen hundred hours? Maybe even have a bite to eat? I make a great fungilli.
LEAH: I love fungilli.
LAFORGE: Is that right?

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors are having difficulty penetrating the interior. However, the radiated output suggests a coherent system of energy storage and utilization.
RIKER: Then it was constructed by someone?
DATA: It is a possibility. However, the sensor data gathered thus far suggests a naturally occurring phenomenon with biological properties.
PICARD: A life form.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
RIKER: Mister Worf, begin compiling readings for transmission to Starfleet Headquarters. Mister Data, prepare to launch three level-five probes. Ensign, aft thrusters. Standard observation posture.
DATA: Level-five probe sequence ready for launch, Commander. On your mark.
RIKER: Stand by, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: What would it be like, Counselor? No ship, no bulky spacesuit. Just to live between the stars, have the entire galaxy as a home.
WORF: Captain, we are being probed. Recommend we raise shields.
PICARD: Negative, Mister Worf. If we are curious about it, it has a perfect right to be curious about us.
DATA: Change in readings, sir. The life form has increased its energy output by fifty percent.
WORF: It is moving toward us.
PICARD: Reverse course, Ensign, three hundred kph.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Easy, we don't want to alarm or provoke it.
DATA: We are caught in an energy damping field, sir.
PICARD: Raise shields.
WORF: No effect, Captain.
PICARD: Reverse power, full impulse.
RAGER: Impulse engines at full power.
DATA: No change in position.
RIKER: Red alert!
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare to initiate warp drive.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Sorry, Captain. There's too much interference to form a warp field.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at sixty five millirads per minute and rising.
RIKER: Riker to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER: All decks prepare for radiation protocol.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Acknowledged. Crusher out.
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at three hundred millirads per minute and rising. Lethal exposure in one minute.
PICARD: Mister Worf, ready phasers. Minimum power.
WORF: Ready.
PICARD: Fire.
DATA: Radiation levels dropping back to normal, Captain. Energy patterns are breaking down, sir. The radiation signature is no longer stable.
DATA: Energy output is negligible, sir. Radiation patterns no longer coherent. I believe it is dead, sir.
PICARD: We're out here to explore, to make contact with other life forms, to establish peaceful relations but not to interfere. And absolutely not to destroy. And yet look what we have just done.
TROI: Captain, everything you did was consistent with established Starfleet procedures.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Captain, sensors are picking up a new energy reading from the life form.
PICARD: Elaborate, Data.
DATA: There is a new concentration of ionizing radiation growing in the center of its body.
PICARD: Then, perhaps it's still alive.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: Okay. Computer, subdued lighting. No, that's too much. I don't want it dark, I want it cozy.
COMPUTER: Please state your request in precise candlepower.
LAFORGE: See, it's not a matter of precision, computer, it's a matter of mood. Brighter than this. More. More. A little more. Hold. Right there. Perfect. Now, some music. Maybe a little soft jazz. No, that's not right. Let me think here. Oh, I got it! Some Brahms! A piano etude. Nah, that's too corny. Probably everybody thinks of that. Computer, just give me some guitar. Classical guitar. Doesn't matter who. Yes, thank you.
LAFORGE: Come on in.
LEAH: Oh, you've changed.
LAFORGE: Yeah. The uniforms are so formal.
LEAH: You're less formal than any Starfleet officer I've ever met, Commander.
LAFORGE: Am I? I really just wanted to make you feel more comfortable.
LEAH: I'm fine. Thank you.
LAFORGE: I'm sorry. Come in and have a seat. Can I get you a drink?
LEAH: No, thank you.
LAFORGE: You sure? You know, your hair, it's different.
LEAH: Different than a few hours ago?
LAFORGE: No, I mean it's different than I expected. Different from your Starfleet records.
LEAH: Oh. Yes, I used to wear it up.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
LEAH: Why would you need to see my personnel file?
LAFORGE: Standard procedure when guests come on board. Protocol. I mean, it was nothing specific, actually. Just, you know.
LEAH: Commander La Forge, if I seem to be somewhat unyielding in my views, it's because I care so very much about my work.
LAFORGE: Oh, I know.
LEAH: To be honest, people find me cold, cerebral, lacking in humor.
LAFORGE: But they're wrong, I assure you.
LEAH: Well, I try not to be that way, but when it comes to my designs, my engines, especially the ones on the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: It's like they're your children.
LEAH: Yes. Exactly.
LAFORGE: So naturally you're a little possessive about them.
LEAH: You understand that?
LAFORGE: Yes, I do. You see, I feel the same way.
LEAH: That's amazing. I don't think anyone has ever. Sometimes I feel more comfortable with engine schematics than people.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe you just haven't met the right people. You hungry? I'm hungry. Why don't I just start dinner, okay?
LEAH: Commander.
LAFORGE: Please, call me Geordi.
LEAH: I'm sorry, I hope that I didn't put you to a lot of trouble but I can't stay.
LAFORGE: You can't?
LEAH: I just don't think that it's appropriate.
LAFORGE: Oh.
LEAH: I'll meet with you at oh eight hundred tomorrow. I'm preparing a list of discrepancies that I've identified in your modifications. I hope, now that we've reached an understanding that you'll be prepared to discuss them with me in a more objective fashion.
LAFORGE: Sure. Fine.
LEAH: Thank you. Goodnight, Commander.
LAFORGE: Goodnight.

[Bridge]
DATA: This new concentration of energy was detected only after the surrounding material became inert.
RIKER: Could this be some sort of tissue regeneration?
DATA: The radiation signature is similar to the original pattern, but with significant differences.
PICARD: Some kind of reaction to our phaser fire, perhaps.
DATA: I believe it is separate and self-contained within the body of the dead life form.
RIKER: Another entity.
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears to be a smaller, less developed version of the original creature.
PICARD: No wonder it attacked us. It was about to give birth.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: It's dangerous to generalize about new life forms, but based on my experience with other beings who bear their young in this manner, I'd say that the offspring is still premature. Otherwise, it would be able to break through the outer body shell of the parent.
PICARD: Will this creature be able to survive on its own without the parent?
CRUSHER: There's no way to tell. We don't have enough information about the bio-functions of the adult, much less the child.
TROI: Is there something we can do to help?
CRUSHER: If we were in Sickbay, I'd try a Cesarean section. The first priority is to free it from the body of the parent.
RIKER: We could use our phasers as a scalpel.
CRUSHER: Yes, that might work.
WORF: I advise against this, Captain. The parent proved to be a threat to the ship. We do not know how the offspring will react.
PICARD: Your objection is noted, Mister Worf, but we are directly responsible for the death of the parent. We cannot simply wash our hands of it now. Doctor, we will proceed at your discretion.

[Engineering]
LEAH: Good morning.
LAFORGE: Good morning.
LEAH: The first thing I'd like to do is inspect the power transfer conduits.
LAFORGE: You realize the only way to inspect them is to crawl inside.
LEAH: I designed them, Commander. I know what's involved.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Here we go. Power taps. Watch yourself.
LEAH: The acoustic signature doesn't sound right.
LAFORGE: You're probably the only other person in the galaxy who could pick that up.
LEAH: What's causing it?
LAFORGE: It's right up here.
LEAH: I've never seen anything like this before. What is it?
LAFORGE: It's a mid-range phase adjuster. Puts the plasma back into phase after inertial distortion.
LEAH: This has never been done before. I don't even think this has ever been conceived of before. You should write a scientific paper.
LAFORGE: Uh-uh, Doctor, no. Writing is not one of my strong suits.
LEAH: But this kind of refinement should be shared, and you deserve the credit for it.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe we could collaborate. Writing is one of your strong points.
LEAH: Commander La Forge, ever since I came on board, there seems to be something a little peculiar about your attitude. You seem to know things about me, even though we've never met.
LAFORGE: Well, to tell you the truth, I've studied you. Your writings, your Starfleet file. I've admired you. You know, your work.
LEAH: Well, I'm flattered, but.
LAFORGE: And, well, I really, I really wanted to meet you for a long time, And I'd like to think that we could become friends. Maybe good friends.
LEAH: I thought you knew. I mean, you know everything else about me, but Commander, if I'm hearing what I think I'm hearing, then you should know that I'm married.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Set phaser power to three percent, narrow beam.
WORF: Three percent.
CRUSHER: All right, here we go.
DATA: The first incision is complete.
CRUSHER: Ideally the offspring should now be able to push through the outer shell of the parent by itself.
RIKER: I think it needs a little more help.
CRUSHER: We've done all we can. I don't want to risk hitting the offspring by accident.
TROI: Come on. You can do it.
CRUSHER: Captain, I'd like to announce the birth of a large baby something.
PICARD: Well done, Doctor. Well done.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: How could it have been so far off? It was based on every piece of information on record about Leah Brahms. Okay, with an admitted margin for error. but this is an error that's a light year wide.
GUINAN: Not what you hoped for, huh?
LAFORGE: Hoped? Guinan, the woman is about as friendly as a Circassian plague cat, only cares about her work, hates what I've done to her engines, and to top it off she's married. Computer never even told me she was married.
GUINAN: Computer glitch?
LAFORGE: Must have been.
GUINAN: Maybe it was your old visor.
LAFORGE: What are you talking about?
GUINAN: The one you wore when you were on the holodeck with her.
LAFORGE: Guinan, it's the same visor.
GUINAN: Really? Oh, I figured it was probably the one that lets you see what you want to see.
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean?
GUINAN: You saw exactly what you wanted to see in the holodeck. Sure, the computer made it look like her, gave it personality, but when it came to the relationship. La Forge, you filled in the blanks. And you had a perfectly wonderful, marvelous little fantasy. until the real Leah showed up and ruined it. She's probably done the most horrific thing one person can do to another, not live up to your expectations. So I'd take a good, hard, long look at her, La Forge. See her for who she is, not for what you want her to be.

[Bridge]
DATA: The life form's patterns are stable, Captain. It seems able to withstand the solar radiation.
PICARD: Good. Ensign, set course for the Guernica system.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
RIKER: We're not staying?
PICARD: No, Number One. We've done all we can to help. Now it's time to move on. This creature can continue its existence without any further interference from us.
RIKER: It might be wise to put some distance between us before we initiate warp drive.
PICARD: Very well. Five hundred kph. Ensign. Engage.
WORF: Captain, it is following us. Maintaining a distance of four kilometers, directly astern.
PICARD: Seventeen degrees to port, Ensign.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
WORF: It is turning with us, sir.
RIKER: Increase to half impulse.
WORF: It is matching our velocity.
TROI: It's imprinted on us. It thinks the Enterprise is its mother.
DATA: A change in energy readings, sir. I am reading an internal buildup of gamma particles in
WORF: Its velocity is increasing. It is moving directly toward the ship.
PICARD: Evasive maneuvers, full.
RIKER: Report.
WORF: Minor damage.
DATA: The creature is now in direct contact with the hull, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Sir, the life form is draining energy directly from the fusion reactors.
TROI: It's feeding off the energy of the Enterprise as it would from its mother.
WORF: What action should we take, sir?
PICARD: None, Lieutenant. None at all.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Since the newborn has attached itself to the hull, it has been making greater and greater demands on the ship's energy, but we have been able to stabilize our power systems temporarily.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: How long before the power drain becomes critical, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: If it continues to increase at the current rate, six, maybe seven hours.
LEAH: We may be able to modify the engine to extend that a little longer, Captain.
PICARD: Your help would be appreciated, Doctor.
LAFORGE: By then, Junior may not need us any more.
PICARD: Mister Data, is there any way to determine what the destination of the parent might have been?
DATA: I can attempt to extrapolate from the heading it was on when we encountered it, sir.
CRUSHER: Perhaps it was its way to a safe and supportive environment for its newborn.
PICARD: We might be able to deliver it to the same destination.
RIKER: Which brings up the question of how do we get Junior off the hull once we get there.
LEAH: It's almost completely covering the door of shuttlebay two. If we open the door and deactivate the atmospheric force field.
LAFORGE: the pressure from inside the ship might push it away from the hull.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Sir, is the appellation Junior to be the life form's official name?
PICARD: No, it is not.

[Corridor]
LEAH: We can save a lot of energy just by improving engine efficiency.
LAFORGE: We've run into similar problems before. That's actually why I reoriented the dilithium crystal.
LEAH: And why you added the mid-range phase adjusters?
LAFORGE: Right.
LEAH: Commander it seems that you've made a lot more modifications than I'm aware of. Do you have a file on all the work you've done?
LAFORGE: It's in the computer.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander, I need to see you on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: On my way, Captain. You go on ahead, Doctor. Ensign Palvik can show you the file on the engine modifications.

[Engineering]
LEAH: Phase coils upgraded to fifty five field densities. Plasma inducers interlinked with generator. Ensign, would there be any other files with data on the original engine specifications?
PAVLIK: I believe so, Doctor.
LEAH: This file utilizes the prototype engine schematic.
PAVLIK: It's a holographic program, set in the drafting room at Utopia Planitia.
LEAH: I'll run it on holodeck three.

[Corridor]
LEAH: Computer replay program nine one four zero. Engine schematic at Utopia Planitia.
COMPUTER: Program loaded and ready.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: She went where?
PAVLIK: Holodeck three, sir. I didn't think there was anything wrong with her seeing the file.
LAFORGE: Of course not. Nothing at all.

[Holodeck - Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
HOLO LEAH: I'm with you every day, Geordi. Every time you look at this engine, you're looking at me. Every time you touch it, it's me.
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze program.
LEAH: Now I understand.
LAFORGE: No, you don't. It's not the way this may look.
LEAH: I called up a replay of the program file. I was all ready to compliment you again, Commander, for constructing a program which contained the prototype engine so that you would always have a baseline reference for your modifications. And now I find that it's all about a fantasy plaything.
LAFORGE: It's not like that, I swear.
LEAH: I'm outraged by this. I have been invaded. Violated. How dare you use me like this? How far did it go, anyway? Was it good for you?
LAFORGE: Nothing like that happened. It was a professional collaboration.
LEAH: Oh, I can tell. Every time you're touching the engine you're touching me. Real professional.
LAFORGE: Look, if you watched the whole program, you saw what it was. We were working together to solve a problem in a crisis situation.
LEAH: How do I know how far it went? How many other programs did you create? Perhaps dozens of them, one for every day of the week, one for every mood.
LAFORGE: All right, look. Ever since you came on board, you've been badgering me and I've taken it. I've shown you courtesy, and respect, and a hell of a lot of patience. Oh, no, no, no, wait a minute. I've tried to understand you. I've tried to get along with you. And in return, you've accused, tried and convicted me without bothering to hear my side of it. So, I'm guilty, okay? But not of what you think. Of something much worse. I'm guilty of reaching out to you, of hoping we could connect. I'm guilty of a terrible crime, Doctor. I offered you friendship.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, its total volume has increased by eight point five percent in the last three hours. I now read it at forty six million cubic meters.
DATA: Captain, I have completed the analysis of the parent's course through this system.
RIKER: It was headed for an asteroid belt.
PICARD: Ensign Rager, set course two five nine mark three one eight, half impulse.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Hold a position five hundred kilometers from the periphery of the asteroid field.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
WORF: Difficulty getting a clear sensor reading beyond four thousand kilometers.
DATA: The asteroids contain large quantities of meklonite, which is interfering with our scanners. I am also detecting traces of kephneum, a compound found in the outer shell of the parent being. It is likely the asteroids provide sustenance for this lifeform, sir.
RIKER: We could leave the child here. If Data's right, it would have an ample supply of food.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister La Forge, are you ready to separate our guest from the hull?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Ready, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Shuttlebay control booth]
LAFORGE: I am deactivating the atmospheric force field now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Engineering, report.
PAVLIK (voiceover): Power drain just jumped to ninety three percent, sir.
DATA: Captain, the offspring is emitting high frequency radio transmissions.
RIKER: Is it trying to communicate?
PAVLIK (voiceover): The power drain is increasing, Approaching auto-shutdown.
RIKER: Take the engines offline. Supplement with auxiliary power only. All decks go to emergency level seven. Life support and critical operations only.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what is your status?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Sorry, Captain.

[Shuttlebay control booth]
LAFORGE: The bay's been completely depressurized, but it's still hanging on.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am detecting other radio transmissions, Captain.
WORF: Sensors detect movement within the asteroid field. Bearing two five seven mark one six one.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
DATA: At their current speed, sir, the entities will intercept us in ten minutes, thirty one seconds.
RIKER: Weapons status?
WORF: Auxiliary power only. Two seconds phaser fire available.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Ensign, power readings.
PAVLIK: We're on auxiliary generators. life support is functioning, that's about all.
LAFORGE: Keep your eye on that generator console. We've got less than six minutes to get that baby off our back before his relatives get here. Whatever we try, Junior responds by sucking up more energy.
LEAH: Commander, I have a thought. If you're interested.
LAFORGE: Of course. What is it?
LEAH: If the baby is nursing, perhaps what we need is to find a way to sour the milk. If we could contaminate the energy he's feeding on, we could try to
LAFORGE: make it unpalatable somehow. But the emergency generators are all we've got.
LEAH: And how do we modify them without losing life support?
LAFORGE: Exactly. Unless.
LEAH: What?
LAFORGE: Well. this is a space baby, right? I mean, these creatures are born, live, and die in interstellar space.
LEAH: Apparently.
LAFORGE: Okay. All matter in space vibrates in a specific radiation band.
LEAH: Twenty one centimeters. That's good, Commander, that's very good. If we could alter the power frequency so that it's completely foreign to the life form's natural vibrations
LAFORGE: It might just give us enough to pour a little vinegar in baby's milk.
LEAH: We have to be careful, though. If we upset it this time, we might lose auxiliary power too.
LAFORGE: If we're gradual enough it won't be such a shock. Hopefully it'll just lose interest. La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Captain, Doctor Brahms and I have a plan.

[Bridge]
WORF: Two minutes until the creatures intercept, Captain.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, we're ready down here.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lowering wavelength in the energy system now.
LEAH: Reading eighteen, fifteen thirteen, eleven, eight, five, three. Now at the two centimeter level.
LAFORGE: Any reaction, Bridge?

[Bridge]
DATA: Negative. I detect no reduction in the life form's rate of energy consumption.
WORF: One minute thirty seconds to intercept.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay not sour enough. Leah, take it down further.
LEAH: Reading one, point eight, point four

[Bridge]
LEAH (voiceover): Point two.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I guess it noticed what we're doing.

[Bridge]
DATA: The lifeform is emitting its high frequency transmission. Energy consumption is rising, sir.
WORF: Captain, the creatures are accelerating their approach. They are changing color.
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Just a little more time. Leah, nudge it down even further, toward point oh two.

[Bridge]
WORF: Thirty seconds to intercept.
LEAH (voiceover): Point oh eight.

[Engineering]
LEAH: Oh five, oh three.

[Bridge]
LEAH (voiceover): Now at point oh two centimeters.
DATA: Auxiliary generators losing power, Captain.
DATA: The entity has disengaged, sir. Power levels are returning to normal, Captain.
RIKER: Bring the engines online and take us out of here.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, Doctor Brahms, congratulations. You've weaned the baby.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Good work.
LEAH: You, too.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Yeah, I admit it. I did get a little attached to that lady in the holodeck.
LEAH: The computer never told you that I was married?
LAFORGE: I never asked. And the computer is notorious for not volunteering information.
LEAH: You know, I really owe you an apology.
LAFORGE: No, you don't. I should have told you straight out.
LEAH: Well if you had, then I never would've got a chance to see the look on your face when you walked in on me and me in the holodeck.
LAFORGE: The look on my face? How about the look on your face? I will remember that for a long, long time.
LEAH: I wouldn't change a thing. Except for the way I behaved. I guess I came here with my own set of preconceptions about you.
LAFORGE: Well, I guess I'm just glad that I got the opportunity to get to know you. The real you.
LEAH: Me, too.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to La Forge. There is an incoming message on subspace for Doctor Brahms.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged, Worf. La Forge out.
LEAH: My husband.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 44631.2. We are proceeding through the rim of an uncharted binary star system, where we may have located the USS Brittain. The missing science vessel failed to arrive at its destination and has not been heard from since a distress call twenty nine days ago.

[Bridge]
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: That's the Brittain, all right.
DATA: The ship is intact, sir, with no indication of structural damage.
RIKER: Engines?
DATA: All propulsion systems are shut down. The ship is drifting, sir.
PICARD: Life form readings?
DATA: Inconclusive.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There is life on board, but
PICARD: What is it?
TROI: I don't know. Something
PICARD: Number One, assemble your team.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher, report to Transporter room three. Worf. Data.
TROI: Commander, I need to come too.

[Brittain Bridge]
DATA: There is no malfunction in any of the main systems, sir.
WORF: Commander. Here's another one. This was done by a phaser on a setting of six or seven.
RIKER: And more over here.
CRUSHER: The entire Bridge crew.
RIKER: Whoever did this could still be on the ship.
TROI: There is someone alive, but he didn't kill these people. Here.
TROI: I think he's Betazoid. It's all right. We're going to help you. Who did this? Who did this to you?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We're almost finished with the autopsies, Captain.
PICARD: How long will it take to compile the data?
CRUSHER: It's complicated. The dead were found all over the ship. Some were found locked in their rooms, barricaded, with weapons piled all around them. Others were found in the corridors where they'd obviously had hand to hand combat. It's going to take some time to analyze and sort through the details. We've identified him as Andrus Hagan, from Betazed, scientific advisor. He's in a profound catatonic state.
TROI: I'm not getting much, Captain. A few words, disconnected phrases. I can feel his terror but I can't seem to get through to him.
PICARD: Stay with him, Counselor. We're examining the Brittain for clues, but this man is the only one left who knows what happened there.
TROI (voiceover): I'm here. I'm right here.
HAGAN (voiceover): Are there voices?
TROI (voiceover): Voices? What do they say?
HAGAN (voiceover): Both things. No. No.
TROI (voiceover): Keep talking to me. I'll try to understand.

[Brittain Bridge]
LAFORGE: All the engines check out perfectly, Commander. Once we get them started, the Brittain can get back to Starbase under her own power.
RIKER: Let's give it a try.
LAFORGE: Pre-heating injectors. Data, fuel flow?
DATA: Matter valves are open and operating. Magnetic containment of antimatter pods is constant.
LAFORGE: Okay, open injectors.
DATA: Injectors open. There is no engine activity at all, sir.
RIKER: What's wrong?
LAFORGE: Nothing's wrong. I don't understand it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: I've been studying the autopsy reports. The conclusion is appalling. There was no outside source, no alien presence. All thirty four of them appear to have killed each other.
PICARD: What could have caused such an event? Drugs? A virus? Poison?
CRUSHER: Toxicological tests showed no unusual substances in their systems, and they all appear to be in good health. But for whatever reason, they seemed to turn against each other, using phasers and knives and bare hands. I'd like you to see this, Captain. It's from the logs of the Brittain. Captain Zaheva's mental condition deteriorated steadily once they'd became stranded. She began talking of plots and mutinies. This was the last entry log, made after they had been adrift for over three weeks.
ZAHEVA (screen): First Officer Brink and his men were behind it. They got to the engines. They don't work anymore. Had to eliminate Brink. the ship is out of, out of, we're running out. Too dangerous! Out of Brink! And his men!

[Nightmare]
VOICE: Eyes in the dark. One moon.
TROI: Where are you? I'm coming. Where are you?
VOICE: Eyes in the dark. One moon. Eyes in the dark. One moon circles. See the eyes in the dark. One moon.
TROI: Where are you?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44635.8. Four days have passed, but we have made little progress in solving the mystery of the Brittain. I have decided we should return to Starbase two twenty, and to that end, Commander La Forge is rigging the Brittain for towing.

[Brittain Bridge]
LAFORGE: I'm going to try re-calibrating the field generators. I still don't see why we can't get the engines started. It just doesn't make any sense.
PEEPLES: Someone's still here.
LAFORGE: What did you say, Ensign?
PEEPLES: Can't you hear it? There's someone still alive on the ship! I heard, I mean, I thought I heard something.
LAFORGE: The ship was searched thoroughly. There's nobody left on board.
PEEPLES: Sorry, sir. My mistake.
LAFORGE: Don't worry about it. There were thirty four people were found dead on this ship. That's enough to make anybody uneasy.
PEEPLES: Thank you, sir.

[Sickbay]
TROI (voiceover): I'm here. Can you hear me? Tell me about the voices you hear.
HAGAN (voiceover): Bright. Bright out there.
TROI (voiceover): I don't understand. Bright what? Tell me more.

[O'Brien's quarters]
KEIKO: Boy, what a day this was. I'm doing an isozyme study on some populations of Cardilia but they're turning out to have these really weird polymorphisms. What a headache!
O'BRIEN: Is that why you're late?
KEIKO: Oh, no, I had a conference with Doctor Balthus. She wants to do a study on the laticifer ontogeny of the Kaladian Thorn Flower, but I don't have time to oversee another project.
O'BRIEN: Was Tom Corbin there?
KEIKO: What?
O'BRIEN: Tom Corbin from the science lab. Remember him?
KEIKO: Of course I remember him, but
O'BRIEN: You use any excuse you can to pay him a visit.
KEIKO: Miles, what are you saying?
O'BRIEN: I think you know exactly what I'm saying.
KEIKO: If I didn't know better, I'd say you were jealous.
O'BRIEN: Do you take me for a fool?

[Ten Forward]
GILLESPIE: Hello, Chief. Having coffee?
O'BRIEN: No, I'm drinking too much coffee.
GILLESPIE: I'm surprised to see you here at this hour.
O'BRIEN: Why's that?
GILLESPIE: You're not out of the honeymoon yet. Usually newlyweds can't keep their hands off each other.
O'BRIEN: She has work to do. She heads up the plant biology lab, you know.
GILLESPIE: Any strange things going on down there?
O'BRIEN: Like what?
GILLESPIE: I've been hearing things. Kenicki in Engineering told me he saw a man in an old Starfleet uniform riding the lift near the engine core. When the lift got to the top, there was no one on it.
O'BRIEN: Ghost stories.
GILLESPIE: There's more, there's lots more. There are strange things happening on this ship, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: I'm surprised at you, Gillespie. A Starfleet officer. I have more things to worry about than shades and spirits.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Yes, yes.
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Captain, do you have a moment?
TROI: We're concerned. We're afraid whatever happened on the Brittain may be starting here.
PICARD: Explain.
TROI: Well, Beverly and I have been getting unusual reports. People behaving strangely, others hearing sounds that aren't there.
PICARD: Are we talking about hallucinations?
CRUSHER: In some cases. In others just erratic behavior.
TROI: We can't track down any element that might be responsible.
PICARD: But everything started when we found the Brittain?
CRUSHER: Yes. Captain, we have to get the Enterprise away from here before it gets any worse.
PICARD: We're preparing to take the Brittain in tow. We'll be on our way within the hour.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, maneuver us into tractor beam range.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
DATA: Is there a problem, Ensign?
RAGER: I can't seem to remember how to enter the coordinates, sir.
RIKER: Ensign Lin.
DATA: Ready now, Captain.
PICARD: Report to Sickbay, Ensign Rager.
PICARD: Ready tractor beam, Mister Worf.
DATA: Captain, thrusters are losing power.
PICARD: Impulse engines. Ahead, minimum power.
LIN: Impulse engines are not responding, sir.
RIKER: Geordi, what's going on down there?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I don't know, sir. Nothing's responding.
PICARD: Go to warp engines, factor one. Engage.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We don't have warp drive either.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We have no functional propulsion systems?
DATA: No, sir. Apparently we do not.
LIN: We're adrift.
RIKER: Just like the Brittain.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44639.9. The Enterprise has now been adrift for a total of ten days. We have sent subspace distress calls, but because of our distant location, we cannot expect a response for at least another two weeks.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: After analyzing the sensor logs of the Brittain and the Enterprise, as well as the data from the last series of probes, I conclude that we have become trapped in a massive rupture in space, into which energy is absorbed.
PICARD: You mean a Tyken's rift.
CRUSHER: A what?
DATA: A rare anomaly named after Bela Tyken, the Melthusian captain who first encountered it.
LAFORGE: Tyken's rift. That would explain why we don't have engine power.
DATA: The ship's energy is being drained into the fissure before we can utilize it.
WORF: I was detained.
DATA: When Tyken was trapped in the rift, his analysis determined that a massive energy release might overload and dislocate the anomaly. Fortunately, his cargo included anicium and yurium, which he used to detonate the explosion. He then escaped through the ruptured center of the rift.
LAFORGE: But we aren't carrying anything that could produce that kind of explosion. Not even our photon torpedoes would be enough.
RIKER: Couldn't we replicate the elements that Tyken used?
DATA: No, sir. We no longer have the power to reproduce complex elements in the replicator. We must find a way to generate a violent energy release without using conventional means.
CRUSHER: Data, in Tyken's experience did the crew exhibit behavioral changes?
DATA: No. There were no reports of unusual conduct among the crew.
TROI: What about nightmares?
DATA: There were no records of sleep disturbances of any kind, Counselor.
CRUSHER: Then, what is it? What's happening to us?

[Corridor]
RIKER: The only one who doesn't seem affected by all this is Data.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Bridge.
PICARD: Number One, how?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Any hallucinations, nightmares?
RIKER: No. I'd be a liar if I said I felt like myself. I've had to bite my tongue to keep from snapping at people. A couple of times, I've gone to my quarters and felt as if there was someone in there, waiting for me.
PICARD: I've had similar feelings. With everyone succumbing it's even more important that one of us attempt to keep control of his faculties. I want you to turn in, take a nap. I'll be on the Bridge. You can relieve me in four hours.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Deck eight.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: No!
WORF: Sir?

[Bridge]
PICARD: As you were. Mister Data, will you join me in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
DATA: Commander La Forge and I have come up with a potential solution to our predicament. Perhaps the modifications used to increase firepower against the Borg could be effective here.
PICARD: Channeling power to the main, er, deflector dish.
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe that within six hours we could generate a concentrated burst of energy which might disrupt the Tyken's rift.
PICARD: Very well. Proceed. Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir?
PICARD: It appears that I am not immune to the strange forces that are at work on this ship.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: It's a terrifying prospect to lose control of one's mind. When I was young, I remember watching my grandfather deteriorate from a powerful, intelligent figure to a frail wisp of a man, who could barely make his own way home. Mister Data, it is my responsibility somehow to see that this ship is guided to safety. I will need to rely on you from now on. We may need to count on you for our very survival.
DATA: I will do my best, sir.

[Morgue]
CRUSHER: I'd like to do more cross-sections on the brain tissue of some of these bodies. Set up the positron emission sensor in Sickbay, and I'll decide which ones I want to study.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Go away.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Captain, let me ask you this. Since we located the Brittain, can you remember any of your dreams?
PICARD: I hardly ever recall dreams.
CRUSHER: Most people don't, but think. Have you even had a dream in the last ten days?
PICARD: I don't recall.
CRUSHER: I'm willing to bet you haven't. What's more, neither has anyone else on board this ship, except for Troi. I began to realize that when she talked about having nightmares. I've done some additional brain tissue tests on, er, bodies, some of the bodies from the, er, the.
DATA: The Brittain, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Right. And I've also done some scans on a random cross-section from our crew. They both have the same results, a unique chemical imbalance.
PICARD: Caused by?
CRUSHER: Dream deprivation. Every night when we enter into sleep.
DATA: I believe the Doctor means is that humans enter what is known as REM sleep. Rapid eye movement. It is the level of brain wave activity at which one dreams.
CRUSHER: We have to dream in order to survive. If we don't reach REM sleep, we don't dream, we begin to lose our cognitive abilities, we find it hard to concentrate. We forget how to do the most ordinary task. Then we become irritable, paranoid. Some people experience hallucinations.
PICARD: You're describing the situation on this ship. But Counselor Troi reported nightmares.
CRUSHER: Maybe it's because she's Betazoid. I don't know why. All I know is there's more going on here than being caught in a Tyken's rift, and I don't know how or why it's happening. But I do know this. There is an inevitable conclusion to this pattern, and if I can't find a way to stop it, we will all go insane.

[Nightmare]
VOICE: Eyes in the dark. One moon circles.
TROI: Where are you?
VOICE: Eyes in the dark. One moon circles.

[Sickbay]
TROI (voiceover): I'm still here. I haven't gone anywhere. Do you remember anything more?
HAGAN (voiceover): Double. Double.
TROI (voiceover): What does that mean? Is something doubled?
CRUSHER: Deanna, nothing's working. I've tried somatic drugs, I've tried inducing theta waves into the entorhinal cortex. No matter what I do, no one can reach REM sleep. No one can dream, except for you.
TROI: Except me. And all I have is nightmares. I can hardly sleep at all anymore. In the end, I'll be like him. Just like him.

[Ten Forward]
GILLESPIE: Well, I think it's some kind of experiment. You see, Captain Picard is trying to see how long we'll take it, stuck here like rats.
GUINAN: You couldn't be more wrong.
GILLESPIE: It's like we're laboratory animals. I don't want to sit and wait for death to sneak up behind me.
GUINAN: What's that supposed to mean?
GILLESPIE: You heard about them on the Brittain. Shut in their rooms, dying alone. That's not for me. I'd rather go out fighting.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, all the power has been channeled to the, er, the
DATA: The main deflector dish.
LAFORGE: Yes. Right. The deflector dish. So, what do we do now?
DATA: Data to Bridge. Mister Worf, activate the deflector.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Deflector power banks approaching maximum. Discharge in fifteen seconds.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, this detonation better work. We're not going to last much longer.

[Bridge]
WORF: Discharge in three seconds, two, one.
RIKER: Nothing. It just fizzled out.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, it appears the energy output

[Engineering]
DATA: Has been absorbed into the rift.
PICARD (voiceover): Data, can we try again?
DATA: No, sir. If we draw

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): More power, we risk losing life support systems.
PICARD: Understood. Keep me appraised, Commander.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: lujpu' jiH'e, Alexandrijn.
TROI: Worf, no!
WORF: You will not stop me.
TROI: Security to Lieutenant Worf's quarters, immediately.
WORF: No one can stop me.
TROI: Why? What is it?
WORF: I am no longer a warrior. I am no longer strong. I feel.
TROI: What? What do you feel?
WORF: I feel fear.
TROI: To admit that you're afraid gives you strength.
WORF: Something is waiting for us. I am not strong enough to fight it.
TROI: No, Worf. It's just an illusion. It's not real. Please, put down the knife.
SECURITY: Counselor?
TROI: It's all right. Everything's fine, thank you.
TROI: Let me take you to Sickbay. Acting
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44642.1. I have assumed command of the Enterprise at the request of Captain Picard. Our situation is deteriorating. Many of the crew are unable to function and our life support systems are beginning to falter.

[Sickbay]
TROI (voiceover): Once before you said double. What did you mean? What is double?
HAGAN (voiceover): Mates, too bright. Twin. Cannot leave the twin. One moon circling.
TROI (voiceover): What do you mean? you can't leave?
HAGAN (voiceover): No, no, please. Can't.
TROI (voiceover): You want to leave. Why can't you?
HAGAN (voiceover): Can't go. Help. One moon circling. Eyes, that's it. Eyes in the dark.
TROI: Eyes in the dark. That's what the voice said in my dream. Is that where you heard it? In a dream? Over and over? Beverly, I know what it is. I know what's happening.
CRUSHER: What?
TROI: My nightmare. It's not a dream. It's not a dream at all. It's a message.

[Ready room]
TROI: REM sleep occurs at a different frequency for Betazoids than other humanoids. I believe the beings are using that frequency to communicate telepathically.
DATA: It is possible that this telepathic communication is creating interference in the REM sleep of other species. That would explain why the rest of our crew is not dreaming.
PICARD: Counselor, what are these beings trying to tell us?
TROI: They're calling for help. I think they're trapped just like we are. Eyes in the dark could mean this twin star system.
DATA: Your hypothesis is certainly plausible. There may be another ship on the other side of the fissure, where we cannot detect it.
CRUSHER: Is there a way we could block their signals?
DATA: There is no technology to block telepathic transmissions, Doctor.
TROI: Maybe communication through dreams can work both ways. I could try to get them to stop.
DATA: Perhaps we can accomplish more than that. If there is another ship, and we can reach them, we might be able to coordinate our efforts to free ourselves.
TROI: It is conceivable. When working with patients with debilitating nightmares, I've often used a therapeutic treatment called directed dreaming. Dreamers can learn to control of their dreams, retain a conscious memory even while in REM sleep. I could remember a short message and deliver it to them.
PICARD: If it were possible, what would you say?

[Bridge]
DATA: Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by which we an produce an explosion more intense than either one of us could achieve alone.
TROI: What is it you're looking for?
DATA: These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be used in the creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate this inventory to the other ship, perhaps they would be able to
TROI: No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clear message.
DATA: I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate.
TROI: Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles.
DATA: Yes, Counselor. One electron circles one proton. This is a hydrogen atom.
TROI: One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and over.
DATA: Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in producing an explosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element, calendenium for example, it is extremely volatile. But would the message mean they have hydrogen or they want hydrogen?
TROI: Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what they need, not what they already have.
DATA: Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen into the rift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate it.
TROI: How do I tell them what to do?
DATA: If you are correct, Counselor, I believe they have already told us what to do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the only message you should attempt to convey is, now.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I can help keep you in REM sleep for a while with this cortical scanner. It will maintain electrical activity in your brain at the proper frequency.
DATA (voiceover): Counselor

[Bridge]
DATA: You will have to communicate with the other ship within two minutes of entering REM sleep.
TROI (voiceover): Two minutes.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Is that all, Data?
DATA (voiceover): Unfortunately, yes.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have only enough power to emit a hydrogen stream for that amount of time. They must understand that they will have to detonate it immediately. Captain, we are ready to implement the plan.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: We will have to draw power from the life-support systems in order to discharge the collectors. This is Acting Captain Data. All personnel will report to designated shelter areas

[Ten Forward]
DATA (voiceover): Immediately. Life support systems will continue only in emergency shelter areas.
GILLESPIE: Hear that? Get us jammed into shelter areas. We sit and wait to die. Nobody'll ever find us.
GUINAN: Relax, Gillespie. Everybody relax. Ten Forward is a designated shelter area. Relax.
GILLESPIE: Do we want to die here like helpless children?
GUINAN: Security to Ten Forward immediately.
GILLESPIE: We don't even know what we're dying for.
O'BRIEN: Sit down, Gillespie. You're not helping matters any.
GILLESPIE: What's wrong with standing up for ourselves?
GILLESPIE: Picard owes us some answers.
GILLESPIE: What is that?
GUINAN: It's a little souvenir I picked up on Magus Three. That was setting number one. Anyone want to see setting number two?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: PGO signals steady. Visual cortex showing increased activity. Rapid eye movements commencing. Crusher to Bridge.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): She's in REM sleep.
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. Activating Bussard collectors.

[Nightmare]
TROI: Where are you?

[Bridge]
DATA: Ninety seconds remaining.

[Nightmare]
VOICE: One moon circles.
TROI: Where are you? I have to find you. I have to tell you.

[Bridge]
DATA: Forty five seconds remaining.

[Nightmare]
VOICE: One moon.
TROI: Please, I must find you to tell you.

[Bridge]
DATA: Thirty seconds remaining.

[Nightmare]
VOICE: Eyes in the dark. One moon

[Bridge]
DATA: Ten seconds remaining.
PICARD: Nothing. No explosion.
DATA: The Counselor was unsuccessful.
PICARD: Activate impulse engines.
DATA: Engines activated, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have cleared the rift, sir. Warp engines are coming back online.
PICARD: Set a course to.
DATA: Setting a course for Starbase two twenty. Sir, as my final duty as Acting Captain, I order you to bed. I shall do the same for all personnel.
PICARD: Very well, Mister Data. And Mister Data, thank you.
DATA: Pleasant dreams, sir.

[Tarchannen]
BREVELLE (voiceover): Tarchannen Three Investigation. Stardate 40164.7. Ensign Anthony Brevelle recording. Lieutenant Susanna Leijten in command.
SUSANNA: You up and running, Brevelle?
BREVELLE (voiceover): Yes, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: I've checked buildings four and five. Just like all the others. No phaser hits, no sign of a fight. It's like the entire outpost just vanished.
HICKMAN: Lieutenant Leijten, you'd better come see this. No footprints, no vehicle tracks. The wind probably erased them. But look.
SUSANNA (voiceover): Freeze visual.

[Observation lounge]
SUSANNA: That's Hickman on the right, Mendez on the left, and as already noted, the recording was made by Ensign Brevelle five years ago.
PICARD: Commander Leijten, you said that before Brevelle deserted Starbase one one two last week, he'd been ill for several days. What about Mendez?
SUSANNA: Mendez was seen on the Aries an hour before she disappeared. According to witnesses, she seemed completely normal.
RIKER: And Hickman?
SUSANNA: He just passed a routine physical on Alia Four with flying colors.
LAFORGE: No, wait, I know Paul Hickman. He's a family man, he's got two kids. He wouldn't steal a shuttle and desert.
SUSANNA: Geordi, he was spotted by a Federation supply ship yesterday, on course to Tarchannen three.
PICARD: The original Tarchannen disappearances were never solved, were they?
SUSANNA: No, we never learned what happened or why. Forty nine people gone.
RIKER: And five years later, the away team that was investigating their disappearances have started to disappear themselves.
SUSANNA: Geordi and I are the only two left.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44664.5. We've set a course to intercept Lieutenant Hickman's stolen shuttlecraft, and, hopefully, to discover the whereabouts of the other missing officers.

[Ten Forward]
SUSANNA: And then I almost married Paul Bogrow.
LAFORGE: Bogrow? Bogrow, now which one was he?
SUSANNA: You remember. The one with the thin mustache.
LAFORGE: Oh, not Bogrow.
SUSANNA: I know.
LAFORGE: The one who always used to drive you crazy? You always thought he was so full of himself.
SUSANNA: Well, I decided I had prejudged him unfairly. And then I decided that I'd been right in the first place.
LAFORGE: Bogrow.
SUSANNA: What about you?
LAFORGE: I enjoy the bachelor's life too much.
SUSANNA: That doesn't sound like my little brother who always wanted advice on women.
LAFORGE: Well, obviously you were a great advisor. Well, Suz, what do you think?
SUSANNA: I don't know. But I'm not ashamed to tell you I'm a little scared, you know?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I know.
SUSANNA: Well, if anybody's going to figure this out, it'll be the Leitjen and La Forge Show, right?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
SUSANNA: We always made a good team.
LAFORGE: A hell of a team.
RIKER (voiceover): Commander La Forge, Commander Leijten, report to the Bridge. We have a fix on the missing shuttle.
LAFORGE: On our way, Commander.

[Bridge]
GRAHAM: Entering the Tarchannen system, sir.
PICARD: Slow to impulse power. Mister Worf?
WORF: Long range sensors holding on the shuttlecraft, bearing zero one zero, mark two seven one.
PICARD: Hail the vessel.
WORF: Lieutenant Hickman does not respond, sir.
PICARD: Put a repeating message on all subspace channels. Order the Lieutenant to come about and stand to. Make it a priority one communiqué.
WORF: Still no response, sir.
GRAHAM: The craft is now within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: The shuttle's acceleration is increasing. Its trajectory is moving directly into the planet's atmosphere. He will reach an atmospheric interface at an altitude of two hundred and ten kilometers.
RIKER: If he stays at that speed, he'll self-destruct.
DATA: That is correct, Commander.
PICARD: How soon, Mister Data?
DATA: Fifty three seconds, sir.
PICARD: Options?
GRAHAM: He's out of transporter range.
LAFORGE: He's still too far away to get a positive lock with the tractor beam, Captain.
PICARD: Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Lieutenant Hickman, listen carefully. This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise. You are in danger. You must slow your rate of approach.
DATA: The shuttle is approaching the outer thermosphere, Captain.
RIKER: He's panicking.
DATA: At current rate of acceleration, the shuttle will be destroyed in twenty eight seconds.
DATA: Sixteen seconds to impact.
PICARD: Lieutenant Hickman, you must do what I tell you. Reduce your velocity and bring your craft to a positive pitch of twenty degrees, now.
DATA: The shuttle's entering the lower ionosphere, sir.
WORF: Captain, sensors detect two more Federation shuttlecraft on the planet surface. No life signs.
PICARD: Number One, prepare your away team.
RIKER: Worf, Data, Geordi.
SUSANNA: I'd like to volunteer to join you, sir.
RIKER: Commander.

[Tarchannen]
RIKER: Commander Leijten, Geordi, check out the shuttle. Data, Worf, you've got the perimeter.
SUSANNA: It's the shuttlepod Mendez stole from the Aries.
DATA: No life signs, Commander.
WORF: Sir, I am certain we are being watched.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker. Found it in the shuttle. Where's Commander Leijten?
RIKER: Riker to Susanna, report. Fan out. Let's find her.
LAFORGE: Susanna! La Forge to Leijten.
SUSANNA (voiceover): Over here.
LAFORGE: Where have you been?
SUSANNA: Mendez and Brevelle are alive. You saw the footprints?
LAFORGE: Yeah, but they're not human.
SUSANNA: They're here. Just stand still and listen. You can feel it. They're here.
LAFORGE: I'm not picking up anything. Wait a minute. Where are you going? Susanna?
SUSANNA: Stay away.
LAFORGE: Suz?
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise, medical emergency. Two to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
SUSANNA: Do I look as bad as I feel?
LAFORGE: You look fine, now.
SUSANNA: What happened?
CRUSHER: Your blood chemistry is way off. You had a histamine response, to what I don't know. I'm going to run a complete blood and tissue analysis.
SUSANNA: I need to get back to the surface.
CRUSHER: Until we have some answers, I don't want you to leave the Enterprise.
SUSANNA: I have work to do.
CRUSHER: Look, Commander, you may have just had an anxiety reaction down there, but I've got to know for sure.
LAFORGE: Might not be such a bad idea to take it easy for a while.
SUSANNA: I'm not going to stay locked up on this ship while the investigation's going on.
PICARD: Your devotion to duty is admirable, Commander, but Doctor Crusher is right. You will remain on the Enterprise until we know whether or not this is connected to the disappearance of the others.
SUSANNA: Captain.
PICARD: We have completed our survey on the surface. Analyzing that data will keep us busy for a while.
SUSANNA: Yes, sir. I understand.
LAFORGE: Data's got a preliminary report, if you're up to it.
SUSANNA: Sure. Let's get going.
PICARD: What about La Forge?
CRUSHER: I gave him a complete bioscan. The results say he's in perfect shape.
PICARD: That's what the reports said about Mendez and Hickman before they disappeared.

[Corridor]
SUSANNA: Captain Picard's wrong. The way to handle this is to get back down there with a dozen away teams, fan out from the shuttle, we could cover a lot of ground in a hurry. Use proximity detectors, infrared sensors.
LAFORGE: Susanna.
SUSANNA: Oh, Geordi, it's started. What if what happened to the others is happening to me?
LAFORGE: You don't know that. Suz, I'm here, and I'm not going to let anything happen to you, okay? Okay, come on.

[Bridge]
DATA: During microscopic examination of the torn uniform, I discovered these alien skin cells.
SUSANNA: Source?
DATA: Undetermined.
LAFORGE: Without something else to cross-reference, it would take us weeks to try and identify them.
DATA: Fortunately, we have more evidence. We were able to determine that these footprints found near the shuttle were not made by any known Tarchannen life form.
SUSANNA: If we're pursuing a theory that somehow unknown aliens are involved, I think I should tell you that we didn't find tracks like that during the original investigation.
DATA: The planet is subject to frequent sandstorms. Footprints might have been obliterated prior to your arrival. Doctor Crusher and I will begin to search the medical database in an attempt to match these with some known life form.

[Turbolift]
SUSANNA: Aliens or no aliens, why would our people start returning after five years, to be abducted?
LAFORGE: Some sort of compulsion like a post-hypnotic command?
SUSANNA: Something that happened while we were down there the first time?
LAFORGE: We can go back to the mission record, construct a log of everyone's movements.
SUSANNA: Look for some commonality, something we all touched. Maybe a plant, or the sand.
LAFORGE: Or even something we ingested. It could even be in the air itself.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: The parameters are pretty broad, Data. Any match we make is going to be inconclusive at best.
DATA: I am aware of that, Doctor. However, I can see no other reasonable course of investigation available to us. And we may not have much time.
CRUSHER: You're worried about Geordi, aren't you?
DATA: I am an android. It is not possible
CRUSHER: for you to feel anxiety.
DATA: Starfleet personnel have vanished. Others may be at risk. We must do the best we can to find out why. However, I am strongly motivated to solve this mystery.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Freeze visuals.
SUSANNA: We're wasting our time.
LAFORGE: That's not how you felt before. It was your idea to look for some sort of commonality.
SUSANNA: Yeah, well, I was wrong. We're not going to find anything this way. We should go back to the planet. It's all down there. Everything we need to know.
LAFORGE: That's just not an option. At least, not until Captain Picard says it is. Computer, resume.
SUSANNA: I can't look at that anymore. It hurts my eyes. I can't think. My brain feels like it's wrapped up in a blanket.
LAFORGE: Take a break, all right? I'll work on this.
SUSANNA: I don't need a break. I need to get off the ship.
LAFORGE: Susanna, why don't we go and see Doctor Crusher?
SUSANNA: Forget Crusher and forget your logs. Tarchannen's down there, Geordi. It's waiting for us. That's where we should go.
LAFORGE: Susanna, you can't leave. Susanna. Susanna!
SUSANNA: Geordi!

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Her blood pressure's still falling. Apply the T-cell stimulator. We have got to stabilize her immune system.
CRUSHER: She has developed an extreme sensitivity to light. We're trying to make her as comfortable as we can.
LAFORGE: Oh, God.
SUSANNA: Geordi?
LAFORGE: Susanna, hold on, okay? Doctor Crusher will help you, so just hold on.
SUSANNA: It's inside of me, Geordi. I can't fight it. It's winning.
LAFORGE: Don't give up. Do you hear me? You can't give up, Suz.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is one of Susanna's altered skin cells, and this is one of the alien cells Data found.
PICARD: They're almost identical. How do you explain that?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I think the people from Tarchannen Three who disappeared weren't abducted. I think they were transformed into another species.
LAFORGE: Can you stop it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The T-cell stimulator will slow the rate of change, but until I find the cause.
PICARD: Is the Enterprise at risk?
CRUSHER: No. I checked the cell wall integrity. It's viability is extremely low. I don't think it's possible for Susanna to transmit it.
LAFORGE: Then how did she get it?
CRUSHER: I wish I knew. The only thing I do know, Geordi, is that it's very possible that you'll be next.
LAFORGE: But I had two full bioscans today. You said I was fine.
CRUSHER: I gave Susanna a bioscan, too. I didn't find anything wrong with her, either.
LAFORGE: How long?
CRUSHER: Brevelle was sick for days before he left. Mendez was normal an hour before she disappeared. You may have weeks or very few hours.
LAFORGE: Then there's not much time to waste. I should get back to work.
CRUSHER: Geordi, until I know what we're dealing with, I think you should stay here, in Sickbay.
LAFORGE: Doctor, you said it would help if you knew the source of this. If I can continue my analysis of the mission records, I might find an answer.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what if you begin to change? What if you feel compelled to go down to the planet like the others?
LAFORGE: Program the computer to monitor my movements. That way we can be sure that I don't leave the ship. What would you do, Captain? Would you sit it out here in Sickbay or try to learn what it is that's got you and maybe stop it?
PICARD: Very well, Mister La Forge. You proceed with your investigation, but I want you to report to Doctor Crusher for a bioscan at the start of day watch.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: And Geordi, if you have symptoms of any kind, I want to know immediately.
LAFORGE: Understood.

[Engineering]
HICKMAN (screen): One to transport.
SUSANNA (screen): I want to make another sweep of the perimeter. La Forge, you start at building four. Mendez and Brevelle begin at two. I'll take five.
LAFORGE: All right, computer. Analyze audio elements from time index fourteen four seven to fifteen five eight. List all anomalies.
COMPUTER: No audio anomalies present.
LAFORGE: Any subspace projections, z-particle emissions, interferometric frequencies?
COMPUTER: No subspace projections present. No z-particle emissions present. No interferometric patterns present.
LAFORGE: Damn.
DATA: Geordi. May I inquire how your investigation is proceeding?
LAFORGE: It's not.
DATA: Have you attempted an audio analysis?
LAFORGE: Yes, Data. And a spectrographic analysis, and a screen for ionizing radiation. I even ran an enhancement for micro-seismic disturbances. I've tried it all, okay? I'm sorry, Data.
DATA: There is no need for an apology. Perhaps if you indulged in a brief rest period, you would be able to approach this problem with a fresh point of view.
LAFORGE: Yeah, you're probably right, Data, but I've got to keep scanning these records while I can.
DATA: May I can assist you?
LAFORGE: If I knew what I was looking for. Rally, Data, I think it's just a matter of me going over it, maybe finding something I forgot. I'll let you know if I come across anything, all right? All right, computer, one more time.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Sorry to disturb you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: That's all right. What's happened?
OGAWA: I thought you should see this.
CRUSHER: Her skin is simulating light. A radiant reaction. Some sort of mimetic ability?
OGAWA: That's not all. Her body temperature is dropping.
CRUSHER: It's as if she's generating a disruptive field. I can barely get any readings off her now. What's her rate of transformation?
OGAWA: It's increasing.
CRUSHER: That's not possible. It should have been inhibited by the T-cell stimulator. Unless. If there's a foreign body inside her that's producing these changes, something like a viral crèche.
OGAWA: A very small one if our scans haven't found it.
CRUSHER: I want a full genetic analysis. We're going to examine any abnormality we find no matter how insignificant it seems.

[Engineering]
HICKMAN (screen): One to transport.
LAFORGE: Computer, delete the audio.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. Freeze visual. Whose shadow is that?
COMPUTER: Please restate question.
LAFORGE: Computer, the shadow currently displayed in section B three, what is its source?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
LAFORGE: Come on, it's got to belong to somebody. Computer, replay a visual of the last time index. No audio, and slow to fifty percent. Okay, Brevelle's behind the camera ,Susanna and I head off in that direction. Mendez moves off that way. Freeze visual. Now, magnify four times, and spectrally enhance those shadows. Computer, do you have sufficient data to compile a holographic simulation of this visual record?
COMPUTER: A simulation would be limited to areas scanned by the visual recording device.
LAFORGE: Good, fine. Scan the entire record and then recreate it on holodeck three.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Computer, is the Tarchannen simulation ready?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Program complete. Enter when ready.

[Holodeck - Tarchannen]
LAFORGE: Computer, scan Starfleet records and create a simulation of Brevelle. Place him where he was while recording this. Okay, good. Computer, based on their speed and direction, can you extrapolate each officer's movements as they walk out of the recording device's field of view?
COMPUTER: Affirmative, with an increasing probability of error reaching ninety five percent after ten seconds.
LAFORGE: Understood. Run simulation. HOLO-
HOLO-SUZ: I want to make another sweep of the perimeter. La Forge, you start at building four. Mendez and Brevelle, you begin at two. I'll take five.
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze. It's all happening too fast. Computer, reverse simulation. Run it back to time index fourteen seven two.
LAFORGE: Freeze program. Computer, remove La Forge. And now remove Leitjen. And now remove Mendez.
LAFORGE: Computer, using vector analysis, identify the source of this shadow.
COMPUTER: There is no object in the program which could generate the shadow.
LAFORGE: There has to be something between the camera light and this wall. Computer, given the distance between the light and the wall, can you determine the most likely shape and position of the object causing this shadow?
COMPUTER: There is insufficient data to reconstruct the requested object.
LAFORGE: All right, let's say that my friend and I here are about the same size, say one pint seven meters. Now, can you extrapolate its shape and its position?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
LAFORGE: Do it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There, in the thymus. Some sort of parasite. It's using Susanna's immune system to spread genetic instructions.
OGAWA: How did it get there?
CRUSHER: She could have become infected during the original mission. It's small enough to have entered through any of the mucous membranes. But it certainly isn't behaving like a typical parasite. It isn't feeding off of her. It's transforming her DNA to match its own.
OGAWA: There's not much of her original DNA left.
CRUSHER: And we're going to need unaltered genes or we'll never get her back. We've got to get that thing out of her now.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any luck?
DATA: Negative, Commander. Nothing in our survey suggests the source of a parasitic infection.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): The surgery was successful

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: But it's going to be a few more hours before we know how her regenerative systems are responding. In the meantime, we'd better get Commander La Forge down here.
PICARD (voiceover): Very well, Doctor, keep us informed.
CRUSHER: Crusher to La Forge. Computer, locate Commander La Forge.
COMPUTER: Commander La Forge is not on board the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: Bridge, the Computer says Commander La Forge is no longer on board. Is that correct?

[Bridge]
DATA: I am showing no transporter activity.
WORF: All shuttles are secure.
RIKER: Negative. There's no indication that he's left the ship.
PICARD: Computer, what was the last known location of Commander La Forge?
COMPUTER: Holodeck three.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain, if Geordi has transformed, he may be virtually a chameleon.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The skin develops mimetic capabilities. He may still be on board, but undetectable to our sensors.

[Holodeck - Tarchannen]
WORF: You search the structure. I will take the perimeter.
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: Geordi's uniform.

[Transporter room]
HEDRICK: Security. We have an intruder in transporter room six. Argh.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the security lockout on Transporter room six has been broken.
PICARD: Re-engage now.
DATA: I cannot, sir. The transporter cycle has already begun.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44668.1. Doctor Crusher's research indicates that we have less than an hour before Commander La Forge's transformation becomes irreversible. However, all attempts to locate him on the surface have failed.

[Bridge]
WORF: I do not read any life signs on the surface.
PICARD: Our sensor array is useless. We must find some other way of locating him.
DATA: Captain, if we can get close enough to Geordi, we can read his absorption spectrum with an ultraviolet light.
RIKER: Can you modify an emergency beacon to operate on UV?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Make it so. Number One, as soon as Data is ready, I want you to lead an away team.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: How long, Data?
DATA: I must replace the emitter module and reconnect the power supply. It will take approximately two minutes to complete the modification, sir.
HEDRICK (voiceover): Hedrick to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
HEDRICK (voiceover): I've been able to determine La Forge's transport coordinates. He beamed down next to the Aries shuttle.
RIKER: Acknowledged. He's on foot, couldn't have gotten too far. Let's assume a radius of ten kilometers.
WORF: That still leaves a search area of more than three hundred square kilometers.
RIKER: We've got to narrow that down. What's happening with the enhanced sensor arrays?
WORF: All scans are still negative.
RIKER: We've got to find a way to track him. What about the high-resolution EM scans?
WORF: We are adjusting sensors to read Commander La Forge's absorption spectrum, but it will take several hours.
RIKER: Geordi doesn't have several hours.
DATA: I have completed modifications, Commander.
RIKER: Excellent. Doctor Crusher, meet us in Transporter room six immediately.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's going to need a sedative. Give me ten cc's of kayolane.
SUSANNA: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Say, you look a lot better than you did an hour ago.
SUSANNA: What did you do?
CRUSHER: We've removed some kind of parasite from your thymus.
SUSANNA: No, no, no. It's not a parasite, Doctor. It was their method of reproduction, to plant a DNA strand in a living host that causes metamorphosis. Geordi? He's gone?
CRUSHER: Yes.
SUSANNA: He's gone back to the planet?
CRUSHER: Try to stay calm.
SUSANNA: No, but we have to find him.
CRUSHER: An away team is preparing to search for him.
SUSANNA: You'll never be able to find him. I'm the only one who can.

[Tarchannen]
SUSANNA: No, you must turn them off. The light frightens them.
RIKER: What about the ultraviolet?
SUSANNA: That's beyond their visual spectrum. They won't run away from it.
WORF: He could be several kilometers away by now.
SUSANNA: No, he's here. They're all here.
SUSANNA: There.
CRUSHER: Geordi?
SUSANNA: Geordi, stop!
SUSANNA: No, wait.
SUSANNA: Geordi? Geordi, my voice is familiar. Listen to it. You can feel that we share this. You know I'm not a threat. The others, Mendez, Brevelle, they don't exist as humans any more, but a part of you still does. You're not one of them yet, Geordi. I can help you if you'll just trust me. I know what's going on inside of you, the war you're fighting with yourself. Your humanity slipping away. The instinct to run, it's overpowering, but they know how to beat it now, Geordi. Look at me! I've come back, Geordi. Let me take you back, too. Just take my hand. Please.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. Lock on to Commander Leitjen's signal. Prepare to beam two directly to Sickbay.
SUSANNA: We're going home, Geordi.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Is there no hope for Brevelle or Mendez?
SUSANNA: None.
LAFORGE: Susanna.
SUSANNA: I'm right here, Geordi, and so are Doctor Crusher and Captain Picard.
CRUSHER: Here's your visor, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Commander La Forge reporting for duty, Captain.
PICARD: Welcome back, Mister La Forge.
CRUSHER: Geordi, this species, can you communicate with it?
LAFORGE: No. They act on instinct alone. In another few minutes, I wouldn't have responded to you, Susanna.
PICARD: Then we will leave them be. I'll order warning beacons placed in orbit and on the surface. Hopefully, no one else will have to go through what you did.
LAFORGE: You know, down there, I didn't know who you were, and yet somehow I believed you, I trusted you.
SUSANNA: Must've been because of all the good advice I used to give you.
LAFORGE: Thanks.

[Ship's theater]
CRUSHER: You were like a brother to me. Do you remember? We used played in the park near the lake.
BARCLAY: Yes, of course. Every summer, you came to Bergerac.
CRUSHER: You used to make swords out of the reeds, and when you cut your hand you would come running to me, and I would say, Let me see. Oh! How did you do that?
BARCLAY: Playing near the Porte de Nesle.
CRUSHER: And how many did you plat against?
BARCLAY: No more than a hundred.
CRUSHER: Tell me!
BARCLAY: No.
CRUSHER: Let it go.
BARCLAY: What?
CRUSHER: Let it go.
BARCLAY: Let it go. Let it go. You tell me what you were going to say. Do you dare?
CRUSHER: I do dare. I love someone.
BARCLAY: Ah!
CRUSHER: He does not know.
BARCLAY: Ah!
CRUSHER: Not yet. But he is proud, noble, brave and beautiful.
BARCLAY: Beautiful?
CRUSHER: What's the matter?
BARCLAY: With me? Nothing. It is my hand. He is in the Guards?
CRUSHER: Since this morning. Baron Christien de Neuvillette. In your own regiment.
BARCLAY: Ah.
CRUSHER: Promise me. Promise me to be his friend.
BARCLAY: I promise.
CRUSHER: Oh, I love you. I must go now. Oh, and tell him to write me. A hundred men! What courage!
BARCLAY: Oh, but I have done better since.
RIKER: Bravo!
TROI: Wonderful! Wonderful.
DATA: Lieutenant Barclay's performance was adequate, but clearly not rooted in The Method approach. I do not understand why.
RIKER: Data, because it's polite.
LAFORGE: Good job, Reg. And only what, six weeks of lessons.
CRUSHER: Good job, period.
BARCLAY: We have a patient teacher.
CRUSHER: Ah, Worf, I have an opening in my workshop.
TROI: Well done.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Counselor.
TROI: You've come a long way, Reg.
BARCLAY: After more rehearsals than I can count.
TROI: I don't just mean your acting ability. It takes a great deal of courage to put yourself on display like that.
BARCLAY: You think so?
TROI: There was a time when nothing could have dragged you onto a stage in front of an audience. You've made tremendous progress.
BARCLAY: I, I guess.
TROI: Don't you think so?
BARCLAY: Well, I just feel more more comfortable playing somebody else. Maybe all this is not any better than escaping into a holodeck fantasy.
TROI: I disagree. This isn't fantasy, it's theater. You used to withdraw onto the holodeck. You isolated yourself inside your own imagination, avoiding contact with real people. Look at yourself now. Look at all the other people you're with. You're not just acting, you're interacting. Give yourself some credit, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: Maybe you're right.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44704.2. We have arrived at the Argus Array, a remote subspace telescope at the very edge of Federation space. The unmanned structure mysteriously stopped relaying its data nearly two months ago.

[Bridge]
DATA: The fusion reactors that power the array are extremely unstable. There is a high risk of overload.
RIKER: What about the computer systems?
DATA: They do not seem to be functioning at all, sir.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up an unidentified device one point eight kilometers from the array.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: That's some kind of probe. I'll bet that's what damaged the array.
PICARD: Is it emitting any signals, Lieutenant?
WORF: Negative, sir. I show no activity.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, why not go out and take a closer look.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Lieutenant Barclay, report to the main shuttlebay.

[Shuttle]
LAFORGE: Enterprise, this is shuttle five in position, ready to begin a short-range scan.
RIKER (voiceover): Proceed, shuttle five.
LAFORGE: Reg, why don't we begin with the passive high-res series, all right?
BARCLAY: Electromagnetic band?
LAFORGE: Give it a try.
BARCLAY: I'm picking up visual wavelengths only. Between forty five hundred and seven thousand angstroms.
LAFORGE: Let's try the neutron densitometer.
BARCLAY: Nothing.
LAFORGE: Hmm. Doesn't seem to want to give up any secrets. Let's go to active scan.
BARCLAY: No, no modulation.
LAFORGE: Really? You are definitely not from our neighborhood. Increase to three point zero.
BARCLAY: Commander?
LAFORGE: Yeah, Reg?
BARCLAY: Thanks for assigning me to this mission.
LAFORGE: Don't mention it. You're one of my top engineers. It's about time you got in on some of the interesting stuff. This, this is why I'm in Starfleet.
BARCLAY: There's still no modulation.
LAFORGE: Hit it with a positron emission.
LAFORGE: What was that? Computer's down, Reg. Reg?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. An intense energy surge from the alien probe has severely disabled the shuttle's onboard computer. The away team has been transported directly to Sickbay, where Lieutenant Barclay remains under observation.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any indication of the probe's energy source, Data?
DATA: No, sir. Power emissions do not match any known radiation patterns. We have not encountered this technology before, sir.
PICARD: Very well. Isolate the probe and place it in tow. We'll take it to Science Station four oh two in the Kohlan system.
WORF: Captain, the probe has begun to move. It is approaching the Enterprise.
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There was enough energy in that flash to overload your optic nerves. It knocked you unconscious.
LAFORGE: My visor must have filtered it out.
CRUSHER: Exactly. But there was no apparent retinal damage and the cornea looks fine. But I'm still waiting for a full sero-amino readout. I'll call you when it comes in. I'd like this done as quickly as possible, Ensign.
BARCLAY: You shouldn't have to wait too long for the results.
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
BARCLAY: Couldn't you use a global mode in your scanner? It would be a lot faster.
CRUSHER: That's not possible. We're talking about human cells here, not isolinear circuits. I think you'd better stick to engineering, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY: A cell has a an electromagnetic signature just like a circuit element does. Theoretically, it should work with just a few adjustments. I could set it up for you, if you'd like.

[Bridge]
WORF: Probe now closing at fifteen point three meters per second. Collision course.
DATA: Captain, sensors are reading no particulate emissions or subspace field distortions.
PICARD: Then how is it able to move?
DATA: Method of propulsion is unknown, sir.
RIKER: Ensign, take us away from it. One quarter impulse.
ANAYA: Aye, sir.
WORF: The probe is matching our speed and course.
DATA: Captain, an energy field is forming around the device. Intensity is three point two terawatts and increasing.
WORF: Sir, the shuttlecraft shields did not provide sufficient protection for its computer. Our computer may also be vulnerable. I recommend withdrawal to a safe distance.
PICARD: Ensign Anaya, full about. Half impulse.
ANAYA: One half impulse.
WORF: The probe is following.
PICARD: Options, Number One?
RIKER: We can't use photon torpedoes. An explosion this close could cripple us.
WORF: Sir, recommend full phasers.
PICARD: Proceed.
WORF: Firing phasers.
WORF: No effect, Captain.
DATA: The probe's field intensity is continuing to build, sir. We are in danger.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Can you increase phaser power?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Attempting to now, Commander. Isolate phasers eighty to one twenty. Shunt all the plasma
BARCLAY: To the emitters. Yes, sir, I'm already on it. Ready.
LAFORGE: Phasers are as hot as we can make them, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Nothing.
PICARD: Go to warp two.
ANAYA: Aye, sir. Warp two.
WORF: The probe is still with us, sir.
RIKER: At warp two?
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, the probe's energy output is overloading our shields. Failure anticipated in forty seven seconds.
PICARD: I'm willing to entertain suggestions.
WORF: Captain, we're dropping to impulse.

[Engineering]
LARSON: Commander, warp power has been transferred to the shield grid.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but by whom?
LAFORGE: Barclay, what are you doing?
BARCLAY: Lieutenant Barclay to Captain Picard. You can fire photon torpedoes.

[Bridge]
BARCLAY (voiceover): Maximum yield, full spread.
RIKER: We're too close.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I'm certain the shields will hold.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know how he did it, but shield strength has been increased by three hundred percent.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): It should be enough, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf. Photon torpedoes. Maximum yield, full spread.
WORF: Aye.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Barclay.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: You're welcome, Captain. Barclay out. I'm sorry if I overstepped my authority.
LAFORGE: Don't mention it.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44705.3. The Enterprise has destroyed the alien probe, but now we are left with the difficult task of repairing the Argus Telescope. Failure to do so would represent an incalculable scientific loss.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mister Barclay. Everyone's still trying to figure out exactly how you did it.
BARCLAY: Well, it just occurred to me that I could set up a frequency harmonic between the deflector and the shield grid using the warp field generator as a power flow anti-attenuator, and that of course naturally created an amplification of the inherent energy output.
RIKER: Uh huh. I see that.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I'm glad you could join us, Mister Barclay. Your report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Each of the telescope's subspace antenna clusters is powered by its own fusion reactor, but a single computer controls them all.
RIKER: So all eighteen reactors were affected when the computer was damaged?
LAFORGE: That's right. They're starting to overload, and could eventually go critical. The explosion would destroy the Array, and I wouldn't want to be next door when that happens.
DATA: A standard isolation procedure would be advisable.
LAFORGE: I agree. We'll cut off each reactor from the damaged control system and repair them one by one.
RIKER: How long will that take?
LAFORGE: Two to three weeks at least.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge.
BARCLAY: I don't agree. We could repair all of the reactors simultaneously instead of one by one.
PICARD: Simultaneously? All eighteen?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: But the Argus computer is inoperable.
BARCLAY: Not entirely. The core memory is still intact, and we could program a completely new control system.
DATA: An interesting suggestion, Lieutenant. However, that approach would require much more time than our original plan. At least seven weeks.
BARCLAY: I could have it ready for you in two days.
RIKER: What?
BARCLAY: If you could assist me in the morning, Commander.
LAFORGE: Sure, Reg.

[Ship's theater]
BARCLAY: The moon, yes, that'll be my home, my paradise. I shall find there all the souls I love. Socrates, Galileo. And when I arrive they will question my worthiness. What the devil is he doing there among us? Philosopher, scientist, poet, musician, duellist! Here lies Hercule Savinien De Cyrano de Bergerac. I would not have you weep any less for that charming, good, and handsome Christien. I only ask this, that as the great cold surrounds my bones, you allow a double meaning for your mourning veil. And when you let fall your tears fall for him, some few will be for me.
CRUSHER: That was a real improvement.
BARCLAY: Same time, day after tomorrow?
CRUSHER: Same time.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Reg? May I join you?
BARCLAY: Of course, please. Sit down, Counselor.
TROI: Hard at work?
BARCLAY: I'm getting prepared for tomorrow's meeting in Engineering. We're planning our repair strategy.
TROI: I really enjoyed the scene you just performed.
BARCLAY: You're a very forgiving audience.
TROI: Not at all. I thought you were brilliant. You've changed.
BARCLAY: Is that a professional opinion?
TROI: Pure observation.
BARCLAY: No, it's true. I can't explain it. In the last few days I've found confidence I never knew was there.
TROI: I'm proud of you, Reg. I'm glad for you, too. Well, I'd better be going.
BARCLAY: Must you?
TROI: I think so.
BARCLAY: Wouldn't you like to take a walk with me through the arboretum? The zalnias should be in bloom.
TROI: Reg, as your former counselor, I don't think it would be appropriate.
BARCLAY: I don't need a counselor. What I need is the company of a charming, intelligent woman.
TROI: Goodnight, Mister Barclay.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Where's Lieutenant Barclay?
LARSON: I stopped by his quarters on my way over. He wasn't there.
LAFORGE: Computer, location of Lieutenant Barclay.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Barclay is on holodeck three.

[Holodeck]
EINSTEIN: G sub I, J of t as t approaches infinity.
BARCLAY: G of t over G naught.
EINSTEIN: So it is, so it is.
BARCLAY: I still don't see how you're going to incorporate quantum principle into general relativity without adjusting the cosmological constant a lot more than you're doing here.
EINSTEIN: If we increase the value as you suggest, we must face the possibility of twenty six dimensions, instead of ten.
BARCLAY: I don't think I could deal with that.
EINSTEIN: I certainly could not.
BARCLAY: If the semiset curved into the subatomic, the infinities might cancel each other out.
EINSTEIN: Gruss Gott. They just might.
LAFORGE: We had a meeting at oh seven hundred.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Commander. Thank you, Professor. End program.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: What was that all about?
BARCLAY: I had some ideas late last night. I needed to consult with the computer about some quantum electrodynamic calculations. A holodeck Einstein program seemed like the best way. I guess I went a little overboard.
LAFORGE: A little? Most of the stuff on that blackboard was way out of my league. And yours too.
BARCLAY: Not really. I just haven't thought along those lines before. It's all pretty evident now, and if you were to put your mind to it I'm sure
LAFORGE: Reg, ever since our run in with that probe, something's different about you.
BARCLAY: What, because I'm beginning to behave like the rest of the crew? With confidence in what I'm doing?
LAFORGE: You just spent the entire night arguing grand unification theories with Albert Einstein!
BARCLAY: Yes, but
LAFORGE: Reg, something's happened to you, and we can't ignore that.
BARCLAY: Yes. I've finally become the person I've always wanted to be. Do we have to ask why?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I think we do.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Incredible! The production of neurotransmitters in your brain has jumped by over five hundred percent. Pre and postsynaptic membranes have increased permeability to match it. I couldn't even guess at your IQ level now.
BARCLAY: Probably somewhere between twelve hundred and fourteen fifty.
CRUSHER: But that isn't all. The corpus callosum, the connecting bridge between both sides of the brain, it is so active now that the hemispheres are essentially behaving as one.
LAFORGE: So, it's not just raw intelligence we're talking about here.
CRUSHER: No. Creativity, resourcefulness, inspiration, imagination, they've all been enhanced. Lieutenant, you could very well be the most advanced human being who has ever lived.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Whatever that alien probe did to him, Barclay now seems to know more about the internal workings of the Enterprise than anyone else on board.
PICARD: The question is, how are we going to deal with it.
RIKER: We could confine him to his quarters.
LAFORGE: How can we do that? What's he done? We're talking about locking a man up for being too smart.
RIKER: If he's been influenced by an alien, wouldn't that put us all at risk?
CRUSHER: Not necessarily. It might be something as simple as an allergic reaction to a bee sting.
PICARD: Has Mister Barclay done anything that could be considered potentially threatening?
TROI: Well, he did make a pass at me last night. A good one.
LAFORGE: I'd hardly consider that a threat.
TROI: No, but it's certainly unusual behavior for Barclay.
CRUSHER: There's something else, Captain. He taught violin technique at the music school last night.
RIKER: I didn't know Barclay played the violin.
CRUSHER: He didn't, not until last night.
LAFORGE: Look, if we want to save the array, we need Barclay. It's as simple as that.
PICARD: Until he does something more menacing, I see no reason why we should prevent him from continuing his work.
LARSON (voiceover): Larson to Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Go ahead, Lieutenant.

[Engineering]
LARSON: We're having trouble containing reactor nine, sir. It's starting to chain.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm on my way.

[Ready room]
RIKER: You said he made a pass at you, but you failed to mention whether he was successful or not.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: Thermal levels up one hundred seventy seven percent. Comparable increase in neutron emissions.
LAFORGE: Is the interface between the computer and the array still in operation?
BARCLAY: Yes, but our computer is too slow to direct the repairs. The parameters are changing too quickly for it to keep up.
LAFORGE: Then we'll have to try a remote shutdown from here.
LARSON: Transmitting commands to the array now, sir. Starting close down sequence.
BARCLAY: Brower, increase the intake of liquid helium three into the reactor wall. We've got to cool it off.
BROWER: Transmitting commands. Thermal levels increasing, sir.
LAFORGE: What happened?
BARCLAY: Unclear. The interface isn't fast enough.
LARSON: Commander La Forge. Overload indications on Argus generator five, seven and fourteen.
LAFORGE: Damn!
BARCLAY: I can't do anything from here. I have to find a better interface.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. We're looking at a cascade reactor failure on the Argus.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I don't think we're going to pull this one out.
DATA: Reactor Nine will reach critical in ten minutes, forty three seconds. The subsequent explosion will create a chain reaction along the entire length of the Array, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, standby for a jump to warp two.
ANAYA: Yes, Sir.
RIKER: La Forge, you've got ten minutes. Mister Worf, Red alert.
WORF: Aye, Commander.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: Computer, begin new program. Create as follows, workstation chair. Now, create a standard alphanumeric console positioned for left hand. Now an iconic display console positioned for right hand. Tie both consoles into the Enterprise main computer core, utilizing neural-scan interface.
COMPUTER: There is no such device on file.
BARCLAY: No problem. Here's how you build it.

[Bridge]
DATA: Argus reactor nine twenty eight seconds to critical.
RIKER: Get us out of here.
PICARD: Warp two, Ensign.
ANAYA: Yes, sir. Helm's not responding.
WORF: Captain, we have lost computer control.
RIKER: What?
DATA: Twelve seconds to critical.
PICARD: Go to manual.
ANAYA: I'm attempting that, sir
RIKER: There's not enough time.
WORF: Computer is coming back online, sir.
DATA: Captain, the Argus reactors are shutting down. We are no longer in danger, sir.
PICARD: What happened?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
RIKER: Geordi, what did you do?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It wasn't me, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Computer, how were the Argus reactors shut down?
BARCLAY (voiceover): A neural interface was created to expedite the repairs.
RIKER: Barclay?
PICARD: Computer, respond.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I am responding, sir. I'm sorry if I caused you any alarm. It was necessary in order to secure the Array.
RIKER: Barclay!

[Holodeck]
RIKER (voiceover): Barclay, what's going on? Barclay!
BARCLAY (voiceover): Yes, Commander, it's me.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I'm sorry, Captain, I was only trying to help. Our computer was too slow to compensate for the overload on the Array. So I created an interface that communicated my thoughts directly to the central processing unit.
RIKER: Exactly what does that mean?
BARCLAY (voiceover): My body is as you see it here, but much of my higher brain functions and memory have been transferred to the starboard computer core.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, remove yourself from the computer system. Leave the holodeck.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I'm afraid I can't, sir.
PICARD: Why not?
BARCLAY (voiceover): My primary cerebral functions are now operating almost entirely from within the computer. They have expanded to such a degree that it would be impossible to return to the confines of my human brain. Any attempt to do so would mean my death.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That's it. I've disconnected the visual and audio pickups. We can talk without being monitored by the computer.
WORF: By Barclay.
PICARD: Report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: It is now almost impossible to tell where Barclay ends and the computer begins. He's actually rewriting the isolinear chips each time he extends himself a little further.
RIKER: How do we get him out of there?
LAFORGE: We don't. Not without killing him.
PICARD: This is an intolerable situation. I have no wish to harm him, but I cannot allow Mister Barclay to continue to act as the computer. I don't care how smart he is.
DATA: Lieutenant Barclay has not yet extended himself into the Engineering subsystems. It may be possible to establish an ODN bypass directly to the Bridge.
PICARD: That still won't give us control of the ship.
LAFORGE: No, but it would give us access to the propulsion systems. Enough to get us to the next Starbase.
RIKER: How long would it take to set that up?
LAFORGE: A few hours.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY (voiceover): Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: Yeah, Reg?
BARCLAY (voiceover): I thought you would be in your quarters.
LAFORGE: No, I'm just catching up on some work, you know? That level three diagnostic we talked about. How're you doing?
BARCLAY (voiceover): I wish I could convey to you what it's like for me now. What I've become.
LAFORGE: Yeah? Try.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I can conceive almost infinite possibilities, and can fully explore each of them in a nanosecond. I perceive the universe as a single equation, and it is so simple, I understand.
LAFORGE: You understand?
BARCLAY (voiceover): Everything.
LAFORGE: Well, do you understand how this happened to you?
BARCLAY (voiceover): I believe it is a gift. That I have been chosen to fulfill a great purpose.
LAFORGE: Ah ha.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Do you suppose all of this has changed the way people think about me?
LAFORGE: To tell you the truth, Reg, we don't know what to think.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I've been concerned about that, but soon everyone will understand what I can do for humanity.
LAFORGE: What do you mean?

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY (voiceover): We have always perceived the maximum speed of the Enterprise as a function of warp, but I know now there are no limits. We will explore new worlds that we could never before have reached in our lifetime.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY (voiceover): I will take us to them.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am picking up subspace distortion.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: This disturbance is the result of a highly charged graviton field emanating from our warp nacelles. It is creating a severe bias in the subspace continuum.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, are you responsible for this graviton field disturbance?
BARCLAY (voiceover): Yes, sir, I'm altering subspace in a way that's never been conceived of before. I'm fairly certain it will allow us to travel half-way across the galaxy in a matter of only
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I want you to stop this experiment for now.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Captain, if you'd only allow me to show
PICARD: Mister Barclay, this is a direct order. Discontinue whatever it is you're doing.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I really would rather not, sir. I'm positive that you'll be pleased with the result once I've finished showing
WORF: Audio is disconnected. We may speak freely.
RIKER: How soon before the ODN process is in place?
DATA: I have been monitoring Geordi's progress. It will be operational in seventeen minutes.
TROI: Captain, let me go to the holodeck and try and talk to him.
WORF: Sir, the subspace distortion continues to increase.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY (voiceover): Hello, Deanna.
TROI: Reg.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I'm sorry that we can't take that walk in the Arboretum.
TROI: So am I. Reg, you've frightened all of us. I'm sure that wasn't your intent.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Young children are sometimes frightened of the world. That doesn't mean that their parents should let them stay in their cribs.
TROI: Are we children to you now?
BARCLAY (voiceover): I can see so much more than you are capable of. You should trust that. Deanna, I've always wanted to earn your respect.
TROI: You've got it. From all of us. We don't need any more convincing. Please, obey the Captain's orders. Stop whatever it is you're doing.
BARCLAY (voiceover): You must trust me.
TROI: How can we trust an officer who doesn't follow orders?
BARCLAY (voiceover): Trust me.
TROI: The Captain will do everything in his power to stop you.

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to La Forge. Status?
LAFORGE: Ready, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Commander?
LAFORGE: What?
BARCLAY (voiceover): You're too late.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we have not regained control of the propulsion systems. The ODN bypass to the Bridge has been blocked.
RIKER: Barclay!
BARCLAY (voiceover): Yes, Commander Riker?

[Holodeck]
RIKER (voiceover): Whatever it is you're doing out there, you've got to stop it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, we're going in.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, respond at once!
WORF: Audio's disconnected.
PICARD: Lieutenant, take a security team to holodeck three. Disconnect Mister Barclay from the computer.
WORF: Aye, Captain.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY (voiceover): I want you to know, Lieutenant Worf, that I understand your duty in this matter.
WORF: Phasers. Maximum setting.
BARCLAY (voiceover): And that I in no way will take your actions personally.
WORF: Conduits.

[Bridge]
RIKER: La Forge? Initiate stabilization procedure!
LAFORGE (voiceover): Resetting stabilizers to match subspace flow matrix. Stand by.
WORF: He is protected by a force field. We could not disconnect him.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: We are experiencing a quantum-model oscillation delay, doubling in intensity every twelve point three seconds. Bio-cellular disruption is imminent.
ANAYA: Sir!
RIKER: Where are we, Ensign?
ANAYA: Unless something's wrong with our sensors, sir, we're almost thirty thousand light years from where we were.
PICARD: The center of the galaxy.
ANAYA: Sir, our heading's been altered. Approaching planetary cluster.
DATA: Captain, all systems are back under helm control. The computer has returned to normal functioning.
WORF: Captain!
ALIEN: Emotive. Electro-chemical stimulus response. Cranial plate, bipedal locomotion, endoskeletal. Contiguous external integument.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
ALIEN: Hierarchical collective command structure.
PICARD: Who are you?
ALIEN: Interrogative.
PICARD: I am interrogative, yes, and I would appreciate an explanation.
BARCLAY: I think I can help you with that, Captain.
RIKER: Mister Barclay. I thought it would be fatal if you left the holodeck.
BARCLAY: The Cytherians have reintegrated me, sir.
ALIEN: Cytherians.
BARCLAY: The probe was designed to instruct outsiders on how to reach this system. The technologies aren't always compatible. They failed with the Argus computer, and with the computer on board the shuttle, but they were able to reprogram me.
PICARD: What do you want of us?
ALIEN: The same as you.
PICARD: Mister Barclay?
BARCLAY: You're both on the same mission, Captain.
PICARD: Mission?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir. The Cytherians are exploring the galaxy just as we are. The only difference is that they never leave their home. They bring others here. Their only wish, an exchange of knowledge. They want to know us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44721.9. After ten days in the company of the Cytherians, the Enterprise has been safely returned to Federation space. We bring back knowledge of their race that will take our scholars decades to examine. Lieutenant Barclay is apparently no worse for his experience.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: So how much do you remember?
BARCLAY: I remember doing everything. I just don't remember how or why.
TROI: How do you feel now?
BARCLAY: Smaller.
LAFORGE: Just plain old Barclay, huh.
BARCLAY: Always seems to come back to that, doesn't it.
TROI: You know. almost everyone has a moment in their lives when they exceed their own limits, achieve what seems to be impossible.
LAFORGE: The tricky part is what happens afterwards.
TROI: You almost always feel a sense of loss, but it is possible to carry something of that experience through the rest of your life in ways that you aren't even aware of now.
BARCLAY: I think I know what you're saying.
LAFORGE: Either way, Reg, you're an important part of this crew. In fact, I could really use your help with that level three diagnostic.
BARCLAY: Sure.
TROI: Excuse me, Commander, but I believe Mister Barclay and I had a date scheduled, for a walk in the Arboretum?
LAFORGE: The diagnostic can wait. I'll see you later.
BARCLAY: You really, you really don't have to do that.
TROI: I know.
BARCLAY: May I? Checkmate in nine moves.
TROI: I didn't know you played chess.
BARCLAY: I don't.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44741.9. We have arrived at Tagus Three where the Enterprise is to serve for host of the Federation Archeology Council's annual symposium. I look forward to giving tomorrow's keynote address with great anticipation.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: I thought you'd like to know the Council members have beamed aboard and been assigned their quarters.
PICARD: Excellent.
TROI: Captain, it really is quite late.
PICARD: Tell me, Counselor, with regard to my lecture, what do you think would provide greater clarity? A chronological structure, or the division of each excavation's findings into various religious, sociological and environmental sub-groupings?
TROI: I thought you'd already decided on a chronological structure.
PICARD: There is something to be said for a more scientific approach.
TROI: May I make a suggestion?
PICARD: By all means.
TROI: Relax. You've written a brilliant speech.
PICARD: It will need to be. Tomorrow I'll be addressing some of the greatest scientific minds in the Federation. Switzer, Klarc-Tarn-Droth, McFarland. Giants in the field of archeology. Compared to them I'm just an enthusiastic amateur.
TROI: I doubt they see of you as an amateur. Not when it comes to Tagus Three.
PICARD: Well, it's true, I have done my homework I have examined the findings of every archeological expedition conducted on the planet surface.
TROI: It is unfortunate that the Taguans no longer allow outsiders to visit the ruins.
PICARD: Indeed. Especially since we know so little about their origins. But I think that I have constructed some plausible theories of my own.
TROI: And I'm sure the council members will agree with you.
PICARD: Your support is appreciated, Counselor.
TROI: Now goodnight, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]
VASH: Bring back any memories?
PICARD: Vash. How did you get in here?
VASH: I came in through the window.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: I had no idea you were a member of the Archeology Council. You are a member, aren't you?
VASH: More or less.
PICARD: Why did you come to Tagus Three?
VASH: To see you, of course.
PICARD: Is that the only reason?
VASH: Isn't it enough?
PICARD: I wish I could believe you.
VASH: I really have missed you, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Excuse me.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry I'm late. Oh. Excuse me. I didn't realize you had company.
PICARD: That's all right. Er, allow me to introduce you. This is Beverly, Doctor Beverly, Doctor Beverly Crusher. This is Vash. She's a friend of mine from the Archeology Council.
CRUSHER: I didn't mean to interrupt. The Captain and I often share morning tea together.
VASH: Yes, I know. Jean-Luc has told me all about you.
CRUSHER: Really? When was that?
VASH: On Risa, where we met.
CRUSHER: I see. That must have been during your vacation last year.
PICARD: No. Yes. Yes.
CRUSHER: Well, I'm surprised he never mentioned you.
VASH: So am I. Doctor, are you busy?
CRUSHER: Not at the moment.
VASH: I was wondering, I would love to see some more of this marvelous ship.
CRUSHER: I would be delighted to show it to you.
PICARD: I, er
CRUSHER: That is, if it's all right with you, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Of course.
VASH: Don't worry, I promise to behave myself.

[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: And this is Ten Forward, where the Council's welcoming reception will be held today.
VASH: Well, I can't think of a better location. Tell me, does Jean-Luc come here often?
CRUSHER: Not often. The Captain is a very private man. Would you like something to drink?
VASH: Please.
RIKER: Eternity never looked so lovely.
VASH: Excuse me?
RIKER: I was referring to the view. Eternity never looked so lovely.
VASH: You must be Commander Riker.
RIKER: I'm afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
VASH: I didn't mean to interrupt. I believe you were about to tell me that my eyes are as mysterious as the stars.
RIKER: You're Betazoid.
VASH: Not at all. It's just that Jean-Luc does a very good imitation of you.
RIKER: He does?
CRUSHER: I see you two have met.
RIKER: Not exactly.
CRUSHER: This is Vash, a member of the Archeology Council. And a friend of the Captain's.
RIKER: So I've gathered.
CRUSHER: They met during his visit to Risa.
RIKER: On Risa? That vacation must have been better than he let on.
VASH: You mean he never mentioned me to you, either?
CREWMAN (voiceover): Doctor Crusher, please report to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I'm afraid I won't be able to finish our tour. But perhaps Commander Riker could take over for me.
RIKER: It would be my pleasure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: This is the main Bridge, the command center of the Enterprise and our last stop. Vash, Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Vash.
VASH: Hello.
RIKER: Commander Data.
VASH: Hello.
DATA: How do you do.
RIKER: And this is Lieutenant Worf.
VASH: Hello.
RIKER: Something wrong, Lieutenant?
WORF: I had not been informed that Council Members had been granted bridge clearance.
RIKER: Well, I think we can make an exception in this case. Vash is a guest of the Captain.
WORF: Welcome aboard.
VASH: Thank you. Is this where Jean-Luc sits?
RIKER: That's the big chair.
VASH: Well, I can see where being a starship Captain has its rewards.
PICARD: I'm that glad you approve.
VASH: I suppose I'll go back to my room now and get ready for the reception.
PICARD: By all means. Well, I suppose I'll see you then, then.
VASH: I look forward to it.
RIKER: Fascinating woman.

[Ten Forward]
VASH: I don't understand, I thought being the ship's Counselor meant the Captain confided in you.
TROI: He does, when he thinks it's necessary.
VASH: And he never spoke to you about me?
TROI: Not that I recall.
VASH: Not even a hint?
TROI: You must understand, the Captain is a very private man.
VASH: Private man.
VASH: I know. Excuse me?
TROI: Of course.
WORF: Nice legs. For a human.
VASH: Jean-Luc, we need to talk.
PICARD: Excuse me.
PICARD: The reception seems to be going well.
VASH: Forget the reception for a moment. Why have you never mentioned me to your friends?
PICARD: What would you have me tell them?
VASH: Maybe that we met, for one thing. That we had an adventure together, some fun.
PICARD: It wouldn't be possible.
VASH: Why not?
PICARD: It would be inappropriate.
VASH: I wasn't expecting you to go into intimate details.
PICARD: A Captain does not reveal his personal feelings with his crew.
VASH: Is that a Starfleet regulation, or did you just make that up yourself?
PICARD: I'm sorry if you're upset.
VASH: And I'm sorry if my being here embarrasses you.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How was the reception?
PICARD: Splendid.

[Ready room]
Q: Jean-Luc, it's wonderful to see you again. How about a big hug? Well don't just stand there, say something.
PICARD: Get out of my chair.
Q: Oh, and I was hoping for something more along the lines of, welcome back, Q, it's a pleasure to see you again my old friend."
PICARD: We're not friends.
Q: You wound me, mon capitaine.
Q: There, perhaps now your manners will show some improvement.
PICARD: What brings you here, Q? Have you been banished by the Continuum once again?
Q: Oh, hardly. They're still apologizing to me for the last time.
PICARD: Then what is it you want?
Q: Do I always have to have a reason to stop by? I was merely in the sector, I. You force a confession from me. The truth is, I have a debt to repay.
PICARD: A debt?
Q: To you. And it gnaws at me, and it interferes with each of my days.
PICARD: I have no idea what you're talking about.
Q: Without your assistance at our last encounter, I never would have survived. I would have taken my own life but for you.
PICARD: We all make mistakes.
Q: Your good deed made possible my reinstatement in the Continuum, and I resent owing you anything. So, I'm here to pay up. Tell me, what is it you wish and I'll be gone.
PICARD: Just be gone. That'll do nicely.
Q: No, no, no, no, no. It has to be something more, more constructive. That's my new word for the day.
PICARD: Some other time, Q. Right now I have other matters to attend to.
Q: Yes, your speech. I read it. It's dull, plodding, pedantic, much like yourself. I could help you with it.
PICARD: No thank you.
Q: You've never actually been to the ruins at Tagus Three, have you?
PICARD: No. They were sealed off more than a century ago.
Q: Well, that explains it, then. How can you write about something that you've never seen. I know, why don't I take you there?
PICARD: Out of the question. That would mean breaking Taguan law.
Q: Must you always be so ethical? I suppose we could travel back in time. You could see what Tagus was like two billion years ago. They really knew how to party back in those days.
PICARD: My answer is still no. My lecture will have to stand on its own. Now, will you please leave my ship.
Q: You are simply the most impossible person to buy a gift for.
PICARD: Commander Riker, will you report to my Ready room?
RIKER: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: I've just been paid a visit from Q.
RIKER: Q? Any idea what he's up to?
PICARD: He wants to do something nice for me.
RIKER: I'll alert the crew.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: Captain.
VASH (voiceover): Who's there?
PICARD: It's me.
VASH (voiceover): Who?
PICARD: Jean-Luc.

[Vash's quarters]
VASH: Yes?
PICARD: May I come in?
PICARD: Let me try to explain. I am by no means embarrassed by your presence here. On the contrary.
PICARD: What's this? A map of the ruins? I thought that I was the only reason you came to Tagus.
VASH: I never fooled you for a second. Still, you are the most important reason.
PICARD: Am I?
VASH: That's the trouble with being such a well-known liar. Even when I'm telling the truth, no one believes me.
PICARD: This equipment will have to be confiscated.
VASH: Is that necessary?
PICARD: If the Taguans were to catch you down there.
VASH: Oh, come on. You gave me the same warning about Sarathong Five.
PICARD: I remember.
VASH: Well, it didn't stop me from going there. I brought back some very impressive artifacts, too.
PICARD: Which no doubt you sold for a very impressive profit.
VASH: That's what I do!
PICARD: Not on board my ship. I will not allow it.
VASH: Let's get one thing straight, though, Picard. I cannot change who I am for you or anyone else.
PICARD: Nor can I change who I am.
VASH: Then we have nothing more to say to one another.
PICARD: So it would seem.

[Picard's quarters]
Q: Sleeping alone?
PICARD: I'm in no mood for your foolishness, Q.
Q: I knew there was something different about you. You seem tense, preoccupied, somewhat smaller. At first I thought it was that horrible lecture of yours, but I was mistaken.
PICARD: Whatever game you want to play will have to wait until tomorrow.
Q: I had such high hopes for you, Picard. I thought you were a bit more evolved than the rest of your species. But now I realize you're just as weak as all the others. Still, it pains me to see the great Jean-Luc Picard brought down by a woman.
PICARD: What woman?
Q: Don't play coy with me, Captain. I witnessed your little spat with Vash. Nor will I soon forget the look of anguish on your face. The pain, the misery. If I didn't know better, I would have thought you were already married.
PICARD: You must be very bored, Q. Your imagination is running away with you.
Q: This human emotion, love, is a dangerous thing, Picard, and obviously you are ill-equipped to handle it. She's found a vulnerability in you. A vulnerability I've been looking for for years. If I had known sooner, I would have appeared as a female. Mark my words, Picard, this is your Achilles heel.
PICARD: Believe what you wish.
Q: Do you deny that you care for this woman? Believe me, I'd be doing you a big favor if I turned her into a Klabnian eel.
PICARD: Stay away from her, Q.
Q: I was just trying to help. My debt to you
PICARD: Is hereby nullified. I don't want your help, your advice, your favors or for that matter, you. Do you understand? Once and for all!
Q: You would have me stand idly by as she lead you to your destruction?
PICARD: Yes!
Q: As you wish.

[Meeting room]
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Archeology Council. Welcome. Mystery. It is the mystery of Tagus Three that brings us together today. It is a mystery that has invited more argument, more deduction, more speculation than the best works of fiction. And if you'll excuse the conceit, I want to tell you about my detective story. For several years now, I have been trying to unravel the secrets of Tagus Three.
PICARD: Needless to say, I've not succeeded.
PICARD: However, I have, I believe, turned up some new information, that, if nothing else, raises a whole new set of mysteries and I hope that we can discuss them here together.
PICARD: There have been nine hundred and forty seven known archeological excavations conducted on the planet's surface. Of those, some seventy four are generally believed to have revealed findings of major importance.
PICARD: The earliest was some twenty two thousand years ago.
PICARD: What the hell?

[Sherwood Forest]
PICARD: Q!
TROI: Is this Tagus Three?
PICARD: I doubt there are many oak trees on Tagus. No, I think this is supposed to be Earth, somewhere round about the twelfth century. And this is England, or to be more precise, Sherwood Forest. Or at least Q's recreation of it.
RIKER: That would explain these costumes.
PICARD: Quite right, Number One. Or should I say, John Little.
CRUSHER: Well, if he's Little John, that makes you
PICARD: I know. Robin Hood.
WORF: Sir, I protest. I am not a merry man.
DATA: On the contrary, Lieutenant Worf. Your clothing identifies you with the character of Will Scarlett, just as Geordi's mandolin identifies him as Alan A-Dale
RIKER: And you, Mister Data, bear a striking resemblance to Friar Tuck.
SIR GUY: I have you at last, Robin Hood.
PICARD: Quick, into the forest. Mister Worf. That's an order.
SIR GUY: Enough, you fools. We'll never find them in the greenwood.

[Forest glade]
CRUSHER: I've managed to stop the bleeding.
PICARD: Q. It's about time you showed up.
Q: I would prefer if you addressed me as His Honor the High Sheriff of Nottingham.
PICARD: We will no longer share in this pointless fantasy of yours.
Q: Fine. stay here and do nothing. By midday tomorrow, your crew will be safely aboard their ship. Of course, you will have to accept the consequences of your inaction.
PICARD: Consequences?
Q: What is the one thing that Robin Hood is most famous for?
LAFORGE: He robs from the rich and gives to the poor.
Q: Besides that.
DATA: Perhaps you are referring to the rescue of Maid Marian from Nottingham Castle?
Q: Yes, Data. And it just so happens that Sir Guy of Gisbourne has decreed that Marian's head shall come off tomorrow at noon.
PICARD: Vash.
Q: It's your choice, Robin. You can either take your ease in this sylvan glade or risk your life to save the woman you care nothing about.
PICARD: My feelings toward Vash are irrelevant. I would attempt to save any innocent life, as you well know.
Q: Yes, but what about your merry men? Are you willing to jeopardize their lives as well? Is Vash's life worth more than Data's or Troi's or Worf's? You know, Worf, you'd make a perfect throw rug in Nottingham Castle.
PICARD: Q, I ask you to put and end to this before someone gets hurt.
Q: Oh, that's impossible. You see, I've given this fantasy as you call it, a life of its own. I have no more idea what's going to happen than you do. But of one thing I am absolutely sure. If you dare come to Nottingham Castle, blood will be spilt.

[Marian's chambers]
NURSE: Oh, you'll wear yourself out with all that pacing, Milady.
VASH: I told you to stop calling me that. The name's Vash.
NURSE: My poor lamb. You've got a brain sickness for sure. Can't I get you something to ease your suffering?
VASH: I could use a drink.
NURSE: Well, I wasn't thinking of spirits, Milady, but I have some nice fresh leeches. To drain the fever.
VASH: Out. Get out.
NURSE: Oh, her mind's in an awful turmoil, Sir Guy.
VASH: Who the hell are you?
NURSE: Milady, everyone in Nottingham knows, Sir Guy of Gisbourne.
VASH: Sir Guy of what?
SIR GUY: Leave us.
SIR GUY: Do not mock me, Lady Marian. I'm prepared to offer you one last chance to change your mind. Will you marry me?
SIR GUY: I see. Then the execution will proceed as scheduled.
VASH: What execution?
SIR GUY: I warn you, Marian, this pathetic attempt at feigning madness will not save your life.
VASH: You mean I'm the one being executed? Sir Guy, wait a minute. Couldn't we talk this over? I admit, I haven't been myself lately. Maybe we've both been a bit hasty? Please?

[Forest glade]
WORF: Sorry.
TROI: Data, are you alright?
DATA: The arrow impacted just above my sixth intercostal support, penetrating my secondary subprocessor. Fortunately, none of my biofunctions seem affected. Do not be concerned, Counselor. I believe your aim is improving.
RIKER: We've got to get out of here, Captain.
PICARD: Not we, Number One. I want you and the others to stay here until I return.
RIKER: You're not going to try to save her yourself, sir?
PICARD: This is not a mission. It's personal. It's between Q and myself. I don't want the rest of you involved.
RIKER: Captain!
PICARD: You have your orders, Commander. And I expect you to follow them.

[Castle courtyard]
Q: A touch sharper, shall we?
Q: Such benevolence, Sir Guy. Allowing the condemned prisoner fresh air?
SIR GUY: You're mistaken, Sheriff. Maid Marian has promised to be my wife.
Q: What? But that's impossible?
VASH: Not at all. Though I admit a maiden seldom has the opportunity to win herself such a noble husband.
SIR GUY: A toast. To the most beautiful bride-to-be in the whole of England.
Q: Don't drink that! It could be poison.
SIR GUY: Have you taken leave of your senses?
Q: A foul scheme of Robin Hood's. She's in league with him still, I'll warrant.
VASH: Robin Hood? Oh, Robin Hood. Oh, well, that was over long ago.
Q: All of Nottingham knows you're still in love with him.
VASH: That's a lie. He bewitched me. He put me under some evil spell.
SIR GUY: I suspected as much. You can add sorcery to the list of charges against that rogue.
Q: Sir Guy, if anyone's been bewitched here, it's you.
SIR GUY: Silence. Any more impudence and it'll be your head on the block. Guard, escort the Lady Marian to her chamber.
VASH: But I'd much rather stay with you.
SIR GUY: Of course you would, my child. But I have important business to attend to.
SIR GUY: Lovely creature.
Q: Intriguing.

[Marian's chamber]
VASH: One step closer and I'll scream!
PICARD: Vash, damn it, it's me!
VASH: Jean-Luc! Oh, am I glad to see you. You wouldn't believe what I've been going through. One minute I'm on the Enterprise, the next thing I know I'm here in Nottingham. First, they're going to chop my head off, now I'm supposed to marry someone named Sir Guy, and everyone insists on calling me Marian.
PICARD: Yes, I know.
VASH: You do? But how? You're Robin Hood!
PICARD: My staff and I were brought here by an old adversary of mine named Q, and I'll tell you the rest of that once we're safe. Come, we don't have much time.
VASH: And the others are outside?
PICARD: They're waiting for us back at Sherwood Forest.
VASH: You mean you came here alone?
PICARD: That's right, now come on.
VASH: What kind of plan is that?
PICARD: It's an excellent one if you'll just hurry up.
VASH: You do realize our lives are at stake here.
PICARD: Only too well.
VASH: And this is the best strategy you could come up with? One man against an entire castle.
PICARD: You have a better one?
VASH: How about this? You go, I'll stay here.
PICARD: And do what?
VASH: Marry Sir Guy if I have to.
PICARD: Well that's brilliant.
VASH: If there's a way to escape, I'll find it, eventually. With my head still attached.
PICARD: You really believe I would leave you here?
VASH: I can take care of myself.
PICARD: You are the most stubborn woman I ever knew.
VASH: Hey!
SIR GUY: There'll be no escape for you this time, Robin Hood.
PICARD: You stay behind me.
VASH: You should have left while you had the chance.
SIR GUY: Well done, my dear.
VASH: Consider it my wedding gift to you, darling.

[Castle courtyard]
Q: Congratulations, Sir Guy. I see you've snared the jackal.
SIR GUY: It's Marian who deserves the credit. Took him with his own sword.

[Marian's chamber]
NURSE: You sent for me, Milady?
VASH: I want you to take this letter to Robin's men.
NURSE: You want me to go to Sherwood Forest at this time of night?
VASH: You'll leave immediately.
NURSE: But it's dark. I'll get lost. Besides, it's not safe. What with all them hedge robbers and worse lurking about.
VASH: Please, this is urgent.
NURSE: If you ask me, you'd be better off with Sir Guy. He's got a future. Why, you'll be living in London afore you know it.
VASH: But you must go, otherwise they'll kill him.
Q: Out.
VASH: How dare you barge in here like this
Q: I've come to apologize for my harsh words. I had no idea that you were so ruthless.
VASH: That's most gracious of you.
Q: I admit I was surprised, but no more surprised than Jean-Luc.
VASH: You're Q.
Q: Yes. And you are a very interesting woman. What is this?
VASH: Give me that.
Q: A letter to Riker. Quick, Come to Castle. Save the Captain. Why, this is wonderful. What marvelous duplicity. You certainly fooled Sir Guy, and me as well. I think you're worth further study.
VASH: Am I?
Q: Yes, but unfortunately we just don't have the time. Guards! Take this traitor away. It appears there's going to be a double execution.

[Castle courtyard]
VASH: This whole thing is your fault.
PICARD: My fault?
VASH: Yes, your fault.
PICARD: If you hadn't grabbed my sword we'd be back in Sherwood by now.
VASH: I grabbed your sword to prevent you from being killed.
PICARD: Oh, really? Not as a wedding present for Sir Guy?
VASH: You know I had no intention of going through with that.
PICARD: Do I? You should never have interfered.
VASH: You're the one interfering.
PICARD: I was just trying to rescue you.
VASH: Well next time don't bother.
PICARD: Don't you worry. I won't.
Q: Don't the two of you ever stop arguing? Now, tell me, Robin, as you stand here facing the termination of your insect existence, do you see what brought you to this end? Was she worth it?
PICARD: Can we just get this over with.
VASH: Are you implying that I'm not worth it?
PICARD: Q, your game was for my benefit. She is innocent in all of this.
Q: She is many things, none of them innocent.
PICARD: Let her go.
VASH: Jean-Luc, you do care.
Q: A gallant gesture, Robin, but a futile one. Farewell. I hope the two of you are happy together.
SIR GUY: You have been found guilty of outlawry and high treason. Do you have anything to say before sentence is carried out?
VASH: I.
SIR GUY: Prepare them for the block.
RABBLE: Off with their heads.
LAFORGE: There are too many of them.
RIKER: Data, we need a diversion, now.
SIR GUY: Guards! Take Marian to the tower.
SIR GUY: I'll have you know I'm the greatest swordsman in all of Nottingham.
PICARD: Very impressive. There's something you should know.
SIR GUY: And what would that be?
PICARD: I'm not from Nottingham.

[Marian's chamber]
VASH: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: It's over, Q! Get us out of here.
Q: My compliments, Picard. I doubt Robin Hood himself could have done much better.
PICARD: If you have hurt any of my people
Q: Sadly enough, they're all fine, but my point is they could have been killed, and so might have you. All for the love of a maid. My debt to you, Picard, is paid. If you've learned how weak and vulnerable you really are, if you finally see how love has brought out the worst in you
VASH: Nonsense. You're absolutely wrong. It's brought out the best in him. His nobility, courage, self-sacrifice, tenderness.
Q: Oh, you're good. You're really good.
PICARD: Enough of this.
Q: Indeed.

[Meeting room]
RIKER: Everybody here?
TROI: Where's Vash?
PICARD: Computer, locate Council Member Vash.
COMPUTER: Council Member Vash is not aboard the Enterprise.

[Ready room]
VASH: Hello, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Well, this is a relief. I thought that perhaps Q had found
VASH: Well he had some things to discuss with me.
PICARD: Indeed? Surprised he's not busy gloating over his victory.
VASH: He was right about one thing, you know. As ridiculous as it was, his game did prove that you still care.
PICARD: I may not show my feelings to my crew, but I do have them.
VASH: I'm going to miss you, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: So, where are you off to now?
VASH: I haven't made up my mind.
Q: After all, she has the entire universe to choose from.
VASH: Meet my new partner.
PICARD: Him?
VASH: Why not?
PICARD: I'll tell you why not.
Q: Now, Jean-Luc, let's not be unkind.
PICARD: He's devious, and amoral, and unreliable, and irresponsible, and, and definitely not to be trusted.
VASH: Remind you of someone you know?
PICARD: As a matter of fact, it does.
Q: We're going to have fun. I'm going to take her places no human has ever seen.
VASH: Who can resist an offer like that?
PICARD: As payment in full for your debt to me, you will guarantee her safety.
Q: She will not be harmed, Jean-Luc. I promise you that. Well, are you going to kiss her goodbye? All right.
VASH: Well? Aren't you?
Q: Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot my hat.
VASH: Goodbye, Jean-Luc.

[Interrogation room]
RIKER: What were you doing accessing the propulsion system files on Stardate 44758?
J'DAN: I didn't.
RIKER: Yes, you did, from computer twelve B nine, deck thirty six. The computer logged in your identification from your communicator.
J'DAN: It must be a mistake.
TROI: J'Dan, we have confirmed reports that schematic drawings of our dilithium chamber fell into Romulan hands one week later.
J'DAN: I know nothing about it.
RIKER: I suppose you know nothing about the explosion that disabled the warp drive at approximately the same time?
J'DAN: No. I was not involved. You accuse me because I am Klingon.
TROI: Our Chief Security Officer is Klingon. That has nothing to do with it.
J'DAN: Send me home, then, if you are so distrusting.
RIKER: We've already contacted the Klingon High Council. You'll be returned home as soon as we finished our investigation.
J'DAN: I have nothing more to say.
RIKER: Very well. Worf, accompany the Lieutenant to his quarters.
RIKER: What do you think?
TROI: It's hard to tell. He is very closed, but he is hiding something.

[Turbolift]
J'DAN: On the Klingon Home World your name is not mentioned. It is as though you never existed. A terrible burden for a warrior to bear, to become nothing, to be without honor, without the chance for glory.

[Corridor]
J'DAN: I have friends, powerful friends, on the homeworld. I could talk to them. They might help to restore your name, if you could just take me to a shuttlecraft.

[J'Dan's quarters]
J'DAN: It could be done without any one knowing about it.
WORF: I don't know how you transferred secret information to the Romulans, but I will find out.
J'DAN: Pahtk!
WORF: When we inform the Klingon High Council, they will put you to a slow death.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Retired Admiral Norah Satie, whose investigation exposed the alien conspiracy against Starfleet Command three years ago, is arriving to assist in our inquiry.

[Transporter room]
SATIE: Captain Picard.
PICARD: Admiral Satie. Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
SATIE: Delighted to be here. I managed to acquire my former staff. My aide, Sabin Genestra, from Betazed, and my assistant, Nellen Tore, from Delb Two.
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. May I show you to your quarters?
SATIE: Captain, if Starfleet Command is so concerned with your report they brought me out of retirement, I think I should get right to work.
PICARD: Very well. Commander Riker, will you see to the Admiral's staff?
SATIE: First, I'd like to inspect the damage to your engine room.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Admiral Satie, this is Commander Data, Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Admiral. We still can't get in there, Captain. The radiation levels are dropping, but they're too high to raise the isolation door.
PICARD: How much longer will it be?
DATA: At the rate the levels are decreasing, we will gain entry in forty nine hours, Captain.
LAFORGE: Maybe the Admiral would like to see the visual log of the explosion.
SATIE: Yes.
LAFORGE: This was logged four days ago at oh three hundred hours.
LAFORGE: At that point the emergency confinement field was activated and the isolation doors came down. No one was killed, but I have two people in Sickbay with radiation burns.
SATIE: Have you been able to make any assessments?
DATA: Slow motion study of the explosion suggests that the articulation frame collapsed.
SATIE: The schematics that were stolen from the Enterprise, I believe some involved the articulation frame of the dilithium chamber.
PICARD: That's one reason we tend to suspect sabotage.
DATA: Other evidence lends credence to that theory, Captain. A review of the sensor logs indicates that every systems reading was well within normal parameters until fifty two milliseconds before the explosion.
LAFORGE: We haven't found anything that suggests there was a malfunction anywhere along the line.
SATIE: Captain, I think I'm going to need a full briefing before we go any further.
PICARD: By all means, Admiral.
SATIE: Commander Data, La Forge, I don't envy you your job. Good luck.

[Ready room]
PICARD: There are disturbing overtones in the idea of a Klingon providing information to the Romulans. Are you aware of any other Klingon-Romulan connection that Starfleet Command might have encountered recently?
SATIE: I don't believe what Starfleet Command knows or doesn't know is for me to reveal.
PICARD: This ship has encountered several incidents which might suggest a potential alliance between those two powers.
SATIE: We're aware of that, Captain. What we must concentrate on is the business at hand.
PICARD: Come.
WORF: Excuse me, Captain, I didn't know that
PICARD: Please, Mister Worf, come in. I particularly want my guest to meet you. Admiral Satie. This is my Head of Security, Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Captain, I have been pursuing the investigation of Lieutenant J'Dan. I believe I know how he transferred information off the Enterprise.
SATIE: Well done, Lieutenant.
WORF: This is J'Dan's. A hypospray he uses to treat his Ba'ltmasor Syndrome. But this has been fitted with an optical reader specially modified to read data from Starfleet isolinear chips. He can extract digital information from a computer, encode it in the form of amino acid sequences, and transfer those sequences into a fluid in the syringe. Then he injects someone, perhaps even without their knowledge.
SATIE: Or perhaps with their knowledge.
WORF: The information would be carried in their bloodstream in the form of inert proteins.
SATIE: The body itself becomes a conveyor of top secret files. Lieutenant Worf, when we confront J'Dan, I want you to conduct the interrogation.
WORF: I would be honored. Captain. Admiral.
SATIE: Captain, I predict that officer will be extremely valuable in this investigation.

[Interrogation room]
WORF: I have tracked the movements of every person who has left the Enterprise since you have been here. I traced one Tarkanian diplomat as far as the Cruces system where he disappeared and has not been seen since.
J'DAN: That proves nothing.
WORF: A hyposyringe was discovered in your quarters.
J'DAN: I take injections. Everyone knows that.
WORF: But your injections do not include an optical chip reader. This device has but one function, to transform computer information into biological sequences.
J'DAN: The blood of all Klingons has become water. Since the Federation alliance we have turned into a nation of mewling babies. Romulans are strong. They are worthy allies. They do not turn Klingons into weaklings like you.
SATIE: Lieutenant, how did you damage the dilithium chamber?
J'DAN: I had nothing to do with that
SATIE: You mean it was sheer coincidence that it was sabotaged after you gave the plans for the design to the Romulans?
J'DAN: I do not know. I had nothing to do with it.
SATIE: You've admitted your crime. Why lie now?
J'DAN: I am not lying.
PICARD: Mister Worf, you may have him confined.
SATIE: Sabin?
SABIN: I believe he's telling the truth. He admits stealing the files but not sabotaging the dilithium chamber. I get no sense that he's lying.
PICARD: But if you're right, someone else may be involved.
SATIE: I think, Captain, you have a bigger problem on your ship than one Klingon exchange officer.

[Satie's quarters]
SATIE: I've seen this before. The specter of conspiracy on a starship is a frightening one.
PICARD: I can scarcely believe it myself, but I am so grateful for your presence, Admiral. If anyone in Starfleet can help us, it's you.
SATIE: Captain, I find myself changing my mind about you.
PICARD: In what way?
SATIE: When Starfleet ordered me here, it was with the express command that we work together on this problem as equals. My father taught me to avoid partnerships. Most of them are woefully lop-sided.
PICARD: That sounds like Judge Aaron Satie.
SATIE: You knew my father?
PICARD: Only from his writings. His judgments were required reading at the Academy.
SATIE: He was an extraordinary man. Every night at the dinner table he would pose a question for debate. My big brothers and I would wrangle it around, from one side and the other. Father would referee, and he kept a stopwatch on us so we'd have to learn brevity. But he wouldn't let us leave until he thought we'd completely explored the issue.
PICARD: I'm willing to wager that you trounced your brothers during those debates.
SATIE: More than once. Father loved it when I nailed one of them with some subtle point of logic. All that I am, I owe to him. He was a giant.
PICARD: You must miss him very much.
SATIE: Captain, I always preferred working alone. That way, if something goes wrong, I don't have to go far for the cause. I resented you being assigned to me, but I was wrong. We're going to be quite a team.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: J'Dan did not make friends easily. There are not many to question.
SABIN: You've done a thorough job, Lieutenant.
WORF: I am strongly motivated in this matter.
SABIN: Yes, I can see that. I don't mind telling you I'm surprised. Frankly, when I first heard about your father.
WORF: My father?
SABIN: Yes. There are some who believe he betrayed your people to the Romulans.
WORF: What he did or did not do is no one's concern but my own
SABIN: Of course. I only meant before I saw you in action, I naturally considered you a possible security risk. But I want you to know you have the Admiral's and my complete confidence. You have nothing to prove to us.
WORF: If there is a conspiracy on board, I promise you I will find it.
SABIN: Good. You know the ship, you know the personnel, you know exactly what we're up against. We're counting on you, Lieutenant.
WORF: I will arrange for the interviews to begin.

[Interrogation room]
SATIE: And how often did Lieutenant J'Dan come in for his injections?
CRUSHER: About once a week.
SATIE: Did you administer them yourself?
CRUSHER: No.
SATIE: Then who did?
CRUSHER: I had one of my assistants do that.
SABIN: Did you ever hear him say anything? Anything that may have seemed innocent at the time that might now shed some light on this investigation?
CRUSHER: No, nothing. In fact, he rarely spoke at all.
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor Crusher, we appreciate your time. You are excused now. Mister Worf, will you bring in the next person?
PICARD: Please sit down, Mister Tarses. For the record, will you tell us your name and position?
TARSES: Simon Tarses, Crewman First Class, medical technician.
PICARD: I assure you this is an informal inquiry. We are not accusing you of anything. However, if you would like counsel, it can be provided for you.
TARSES: No, sir. I have nothing to hide.
PICARD: Tell me, how long have you held your appointment onboard this vessel?
TARSES: Since Stardate 43587.
SATIE: Mister Tarses, your records state that you were born on Mars Colony.
TARSES: That's right.
SATIE: Then you are human?
TARSES: Largely. My paternal grandfather was Vulcan.
SATIE: Yes, I see that. Tell me, what is your relationship with the Klingon, J'Dan?
TARSES: Er, he, I mean, there's no relationship. He just came in for his injections.
SATIE: Did you give him those injections?
TARSES: Sometimes. There were several of us. Actually, I might have done it twice.
SABIN: Did he ever make any comments that might, in retrospect, be suspicious?
TARSES: Not really. He hardly ever talked.
SATIE: Did you ever see him outside Sickbay?
TARSES: Once or twice in Ten Forward, with a group of people, but I never had a conversation with him.
SATIE: Thank you, Mister Tarses. I don't think there's need for more. Captain?
PICARD: You're excused, crewman.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
SABIN: Wait. He's lying. He's desperately frightened. He's covering something.
PICARD: It's clear that he's frightened, but that's hardly an indication
SABIN: It's more than that. He wasn't truthful. He's covering a lie. One so big it's overwhelming him. I think we've found the man.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Admiral. I have to tell you, you must not expect me to permit any action against Mister Tarses solely on the basis of Betazoid intuition.
SATIE: Sabin has uncanny instincts. I've learned to trust them.
PICARD: I'm not happy about this use of a Betazoid.
SATIE: But you have a Betazoid counselor. Surely you're aware of the advantages.
PICARD: There is a difference between a counselor and an investigator.
SATIE: Are you saying you never use your counselor during interrogations?
PICARD: Yes, I do, but I would not act solely on the basis of her instinct.
SATIE: Nor do I.
PICARD: But you're asking, you're asking me to restrict Mister Tarses' movements solely on the basis on Sabin's feeling.
SATIE: If Counselor Troi suggested to you that someone on the ship were dangerous, would you not act on that? Observe him? Curb his activity?
PICARD: Yes, I admit I probably would. And perhaps I should re-evaluate that behavior.
SATIE: Oh, nonsense. Let's keep our priorities straight. The important thing is to uncover the conspiracy on this ship and to prevent further damage. Now, if Tarses is a possible saboteur, you cannot allow him access to sensitive areas of the ship, and I strongly suggest continuous surveillance.
PICARD: If we had clear evidence.
SATIE: We will have clear evidence. Sabin and Lieutenant Worf are continuing to investigate. But if you don't act until then, it may be too late.
PICARD: No. I won't treat a man as a criminal unless there is cause to do so.
SATIE: And while you're being so generous, you give a saboteur a chance to strike again. Last time it was just a hatch cover/ What if next time it's more serious? What if lives are lost? Can you afford not to act?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, could you come to Engineering right away? We've got something interesting to show you.
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, we finally got in here about six hours ago. We've been going over it inch by inch ever since.
DATA: We have made micro-tomographic analyzes of the dilithium chamber, the hatch mounting, the blast pattern from the explosion.
LAFORGE: We did mass spectrometer readings of the residue for chemical content, sifted through the debris for bomb fragments.
SATIE: What did you find?
LAFORGE: This is the frame for the hatch. It ruptured right along here. When we take a reading of that spot. See?
SATIE: I'm afraid I'm out of my element, Commander. You'll have to interpret for me.
PICARD: There are submicron fractures in the metal casing.
LAFORGE: That's right. A breakdown of the atomic cohesive structure.
SATIE: Yes? And what caused them?
DATA: Those fractures suggest nothing more than simple neutron fatigue. I would speculate that when the engine was last inspected at McKinley station, the hatch casing was replaced with one which had an undetectable defect. I believe, sir, that the conclusion to our investigation must be that the explosion was not intentional.
LAFORGE: That's the way I see it. This wasn't sabotage at all. It was nothing more than an accident.

[Observation lounge]
SABIN: An accident? I find that hard to believe.
PICARD: If my crew say there was no sabotage, then you can be sure there was none.
SATIE: Let us keep our perspective, gentlemen. Just because there was no sabotage doesn't mean there isn't a conspiracy on this ship. We do have a confessed spy.
SABIN: And he had confederates.
PICARD: Do we know that for sure?
SATIE: Of course he did. Do you think J'Dan could have come on board the flagship of the Federation and accomplished what he did without help from within?
PICARD: I agree it would be difficult, but not impossible.
WORF: We should continue to investigate Tarses. He was hiding something.
SABIN: Captain Picard Lieutenant Worf and I have been working well together. I suggest we continue, if for no other purpose than to determine Tarses' innocence.
PICARD: Now, please! Let me remind you he is innocent until he is proved guilty.
SATIE: Of course he is. What Sabin is saying is that he and Lieutenant Worf would like to establish his innocence unequivocally, for his own sake.
PICARD: Very well. But let us put this to rest as quickly as possible.

[Interrogation room]
PICARD: You've opened the hearing to spectators?
SATIE: It isn't good to have closed door proceedings for too long. It invites rumor and speculation.
PICARD: Nevertheless, Admiral, I think it would be wise
SATIE: Because spies and saboteurs don't like the bright light of an open inquiry. They're like roaches, scurrying for the dark corner.
PICARD: This hearing is convened on Stardate 44780 as a continuing inquiry into the activities of Crewman Simon Tarses. Mister Tarses, for your own protection, I have assigned a counsel to you in the person of Commander William Riker.
TARSES: Thank you, sir, but I don't need protection. I have not done anything wrong.
SATIE: Doctor Crusher, have you observed Crewman Tarses with J'Dan?
CRUSHER: Well, yes, he gave him his injection.
SATIE: I meant outside of Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I think so, perhaps in Ten Forward.
SATIE: And whom else have you observed at these occasions?
CRUSHER: I don't understand what relevance that has. It was an innocent social gathering.
SATIE: If it was so innocent, why do you hesitate to give us the names?
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor. If you have a case to make against Tarses, you had better make it, otherwise I'm stopping this here and now.
SABIN: Mister Tarses. Isn't it true that you have access to the biological supplies in Sickbay?
TARSES: It's part of my job, yes.
SABIN: J'Dan used suspensions of deoxyribose to carry the encoded files he stole. Isn't it true one of your duties is to prepare those suspensions?
TARSES: Several technicians share that job.
SABIN: And isn't it true that your security clearance allows you access to all the stores and files in Sickbay? Access which you can exercise at any time?
TARSES: Because I have access does not mean I
SABIN: What would you say if I told you there is evidence that the explosion in the engine room was caused by a corrosive chemical. One that is kept stored in Sickbay.
TARSES: I had nothing to do with that.
SABIN: How can we believe you? How can we believe someone whom we know, we know, to be a liar?
RIKER: I object! There is no basis for calling Crewman Tarses a liar.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Sabin.
SABIN: Captain, there is a basis which will become clear in a moment. Mister Tarses, didn't you deliberately and premeditatively lied when you filled out your personnel application and compounded that lie by repeating it to this committee?
TARSES: What?
SABIN: Isn't it true that the paternal grandfather of whom you speak was not a Vulcan but was in fact a Romulan? That it is Romulan blood you carry and a Romulan heritage that you honor?
SABIN: We're waiting, Mister Tarses.
TARSES: On the advice of my counsel I refuse to answer that question, in that the answer may serve to incriminate me.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: You and Crewman Marcus will coordinate to track Tarses' movements over the last five years. Ensign Kellogg, I want a list of all relatives, known associates, and especially old school friends. And make arrangements to do an encephalographic polygraph scan.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: I need to speak with you.
WORF: You are dismissed. Please get your reports to me as soon as possible.
PICARD: Do you see what is happening here, Mister Worf?
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: This is not unlike a drumhead trial.
WORF: I do not understand.
PICARD: Five hundred years ago, military officers would upend a drum on the battlefield sit at it and dispense summary justice. Decisions were quick, punishments severe, appeals denied. Those who came to a drumhead were doomed.
WORF: But we know there is a traitor here. J'Dan has admitted his guilt.
PICARD: That's true, and he will stand for his crimes.
WORF: Tarses has all but done the same.
PICARD: How?
WORF: He refused to answer the question about his Romulan grandfather.
PICARD: That is not a crime, Worf. Nor can we infer his guilt because he didn't respond.
WORF: Sir, if a man were not afraid of the truth, he would answer.
PICARD: Oh, no. We cannot allow ourselves think that. The Seventh Guarantee is one of the most important rights granted by the Federation. We cannot take a fundamental principle of the Constitution and turn it against a citizen.
WORF: Sir, the Federation does have enemies. We must seek them out.
PICARD: Oh, yes. That's how it starts. But the road from legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think. Something is wrong here, Mister Worf. I don't like what we have become.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: There you are, Mister Tarses. Would you care for some lemon?
TARSES: No, thank you, sir. This is fine.
PICARD: Well, tell me a little about yourself, Crewman. I know you were born on Mars Colony.
TARSES: Yes, sir. All my life I wanted to be in Starfleet. I went to the Academy's training program for enlisted personnel. I took training as a medical technician and I served at several outposts. The day that I was posted to the Enterprise was the happiest day of my life.
PICARD: Did you ever consider applying to the Academy, going the whole route, apply to become an officer?
TARSES: My parents wanted me to. And then I thought about it. I used to sit under this big tree near the parade grounds
PICARD: An elm tree with a circular bench?
TARSES: Yes, that's the one.
PICARD: I spent many an hour there. It was my favorite spot to study.
TARSES: I used to sit under that tree and watch the drills, picture myself an officer. I know that it would have made my mother very happy, but.
PICARD: You didn't do it.
TARSES: No. I was eighteen, and eager. The last thing I wanted to do was spend four years sitting in classrooms. I wanted to be out there, traveling the stars. I didn't want to wait for anything. And now it's done, isn't it? My career in Starfleet is finished.
PICARD: Not if you aren't guilty, Simon.
TARSES: It doesn't matter. I lied on my application, and that mistake will be with me for the rest of my life.

[Corridor]
SATIE: Mister Worf has found a brother who still lives on Mars Colony. Contact someone there and have him interviewed.
PICARD: Admiral Satie?
SATIE: And start a background check into all his friends at the Academy training program.
PICARD: Admiral Satie?
SATIE: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: I would like to have a word with you.
SATIE: Of course.
PICARD: In private and off the record.
SATIE: Of course. After all, you are my partner in this.

[Ready room]
SATIE: I cannot possibly believe you mean this.
PICARD: But I do. This must stop. It has gone too far. You lied to him about the Engine Room. There were no volatile chemicals found there.
SATIE: It was a tactic. A way of applying pressure.
PICARD: We are hounding an innocent man.
SATIE: And how, may I ask, have you managed to determine that?
PICARD: I've talked with him.
SATIE: I see. And he told you he was a victim of circumstance, blameless and pure.
PICARD: No, he admits his mistake in falsifying his application. That does not make him a traitor.
SATIE: How can you be so incredibly naive? Captain, may I tell you how I've spent the last four years? From planet to Starbase to planet. I have no home. I live on starships and shuttlecraft. I haven't seen a family member in years. I have no friends. But I have a purpose. My father taught me from the time I was a little girl still clutching a blanket, that the United Federation of Planets is the most remarkable institution ever conceived. And it is my cause to make sure that this extraordinary union be preserved. I cannot imagine why you are trying to block this investigation. There have been others in the past who doubted me. They came to regret it.
PICARD: The hearings on Simon Tarses will stop. If necessary, I will go to Starfleet Command.
SATIE: I have news for you, Captain. I've been in constant contact with Starfleet Command. The hearings are not going to stop. They're going to be expanded.
PICARD: What are you saying?
SATIE: I'm going to get to the heart of this conspiracy if it means investigating every last person on this ship. And every hearing from now on will be held in the presence of Admiral Thomas Henry of Starfleet Security. I've requested he be brought here at once.
PICARD: You never told me about this.
SATIE: I report to Starfleet Command directly. I do not need your permission or your approval for my decisions.
PICARD: Admiral, what you're doing here is unethical. It's immoral. I'll fight it.
SATIE: Do what you must, Captain. And so will I.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, warp engines are back online. We are ready to commence restart sequences. Sir?
PICARD: Yes? Yes, yes, of course. Proceed, Mister Data.
RIKER: Are you all right, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, of course, Number One. Just a little preoccupied.
NELLEN: Admiral Satie has ordered you to report to the interrogation room at oh nine hundred hours tomorrow morning. You are to be questioned before the committee.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Admiral Thomas Henry, who has worked closely with Norah Satie in the past, has arrived to observe the hearings.

[Interrogation room]
SABIN: Your full name?
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard.
SABIN: Rank and position?
PICARD: Captain, Federation Starship Enterprise.
SABIN: How long have you held this post?
PICARD: For three years, since stardate 41124.
SABIN: Very well. Admiral?
PICARD: If you don't mind, there's something I'd like to say.
SATIE: If you have a statement, you'll have an opportunity to make it later.
PICARD: I believe that Chapter Four, Article Twelve of the Uniform Code of Justice grants me the right to make a statement before questioning begins.
SATIE: Very well.
PICARD: I am deeply concerned by what is happening here. It began when we apprehended a spy, a man who admitted his guilt and who will answer for his crime. But the hunt didn't end there. Another man, Mister Simon Tarses, was brought to trial and it was a trial, no matter what others choose to call it. A trial based on insinuation and innuendo. Nothing substantive offered against Mister Tarses, much less proven. Mister Tarses' grandfather is Romulan, and for that reason his career now stands in ruins. Have we become so fearful? Have we become so cowardly that we must extinguish a man because he carries the blood of a current enemy? Admiral, let us not condemn Simon Tarses, or anyone else, because of their bloodlines, or investigate others for their innocent associations. I implore you, do not continue with this proceeding. End it now.
SATIE: Captain, do you believe in the Prime Directive?
PICARD: Of course.
SATIE: In fact, it's Starfleet General Order Number One, is it not?
PICARD: Your point, Admiral?
SATIE: Would it surprise you to learn that you have violated the Prime Directive a total of nine times since you took command of the Enterprise? I must say, Captain, it surprised the hell out of me.
PICARD: My reports to Starfleet document the circumstances in each of those instances
SATIE: Yes, we're looking into those reports, Captain, very closely into those reports, after which I'm sure we'll have more questions for you about your so-called commitment to Starfleet's Prime Directive.
SABIN: Captain, could you tell us just what happened on Stardate 44390?
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
SABIN: Let me refresh your memory. You were transporting a Vulcan ambassador, T'Pel.
PICARD: I was following orders to take this ambassador to a location near the Neutral Zone.
SATIE: I don't think we need the preamble.
SABIN: In fact, she was not a Vulcan at all, was she? She was a Romulan spy.
PICARD: That's correct.
SABIN: A spy whom you were delivering back into the hands of the enemy.
SATIE: Tell me, Captain, when the deception was revealed and she stood proudly on the bridge of a Romulan ship, did you make any effort to retrieve her?
PICARD: No.
SATIE: No. Even though you knew she carried Federation secrets that she'd been accumulating for years?
WORF: The Enterprise could have been captured by the Romulans! Captain Picard did the only thing he could.
SATIE: Really, Lieutenant? And where were you when this traitor was on board the Enterprise? Where was ship's Security?
SABIN: Don't you think it's questionable judgment, Captain, to have a security officer whose father was a Romulan collaborator?
PICARD: Lieutenant.
SATIE: Tell me, Captain, have you completely recovered from your experience with the Borg?
PICARD: Yes, I have completely recovered.
SATIE: It must have been awful for you, actually becoming one of them, being forced to use your vast knowledge of Starfleet operations to aid the Borg. Just how many of our ships were lost? Thirty nine? And a loss of life, I believe, measured at nearly eleven thousand. One wonders how you can sleep at night, having caused so much destruction. I question your actions, Captain. I question your choices. I question your loyalty.
PICARD: You know, there some words I've known since I was a school boy. With the first link, the chain is forged. The first speech censured, the first thought forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us all irrevocably. Those words were uttered by Judge Aaron Satie as wisdom and warning. The first time any man's freedom is trodden on, we're all damaged. I fear that today
SATIE: How dare you! You who consort with Romulans invoke my father's name to support your traitorous arguments. It is an offense to everything I hold dear. And to hear those words used to subvert the United Federation of Planets. My father was a great man. His name stands for integrity and principle. You dirty his name when you speak it. He loved the Federation, but you, Captain, corrupt it. You undermine our very way of life. I will expose you for what you are. I've brought down bigger men than you, Picard!
SATIE: I have nothing more to say.
SABIN: Perhaps we should call a recess until tomorrow.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Am I bothering you, Captain?
PICARD: No. Please, Mister Worf. Come in.
WORF: It is over. Admiral Henry has called an end to any more hearings on this matter.
PICARD: That's good.
WORF: Admiral Satie has left the Enterprise.
PICARD: We think we've come so far. The torture of heretics, the burning of witches, it's all ancient history. Then, before you can blink an eye, it suddenly threatens to start all over again.
WORF: I believed her. I helped her. I did not see what she was.
PICARD: Mister Worf, villains who wear twirl their mustaches are easy to spot. Those who clothe themselves in good deeds are well camouflaged.
WORF: I think after yesterday, people will not be as ready to trust her.
PICARD: Maybe. But she, or someone like her, will always be with us, waiting for the right climate in which to flourish, spreading fear in the name of righteousness. Vigilance, Mister Worf, that is the price we have to continually pay.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: Jean-Luc! You delicious man. You were just thinking of me, weren't you?
PICARD: As a matter of fact
LWAXANA: Well think no further, dear heart. She's here!
PICARD: Yes, indeed.
LWAXANA: Oh, serious. You're always so serious.
PICARD: Lwaxana, as a matter of fact, I am rather busy at the moment.
LWAXANA: And you're always busy with something or other. Never the right thing, though. My daughter tells me that we're picking up someone interesting here.
PICARD: Yes, the leading scientist of Kaelon Two and
LWAXANA: Oh, Kaelon Two? I've never heard of that.
PICARD: Well, Lwaxana, it is something of a rather delicate situation> It's the first real contact with a rather reclusive race, and this is in the nature of an official greeting, so
LWAXANA: Diplomacy. I adore diplomacy. Everyone dresses so well.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, energize. (Charles Emerson Winchester III beams in, having escaped from the 4077 MASH)
PICARD: Doctor Timicin. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of The Enterprise. This is Lieutenant Commander La Forge.
TIMICIN: I beg your pardon, Captain. This is my first time aboard a Federation starship. Oh yes, they told me. Shaking hands, a form of greeting.
PICARD: I beg your pardon. Doctor Timicin, allow me to present Lwaxana Troi of Betazed. She's also a guest on board, and
LWAXANA: And Daughter of The Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir of the Holy Rings of Betazed, and what are you doing for dinner?
TIMICIN: Well, I don't know, really.
PICARD: Lwaxana, we have quite a bit of work planned.
LWAXANA: The man's never been on board a starship before, Jean-Luc. Certainly somebody ought to make him comfortable before you get started.
PICARD: It seems that Mrs Troi is our acting ambassador of goodwill for today.
LWAXANA: You just think of me as your Entertainment Director.
LAFORGE: That man is in a lot of trouble. Captain's Log. Stardate 44805.7. For generations, the people of Kaelon Two have been working to revitalize their dying sun. The Federation has offered to assist in testing what may be a solution to this problem.

[Observation lounge]
TIMICIN: Of course, the basic theories of helium fusion enhancement have been discussed for over a century, but there's been no practical method of application until now.
DATA: The modifications that you have made to the torpedo's guidance systems are remarkable, Doctor.
TIMICIN: Well, we'll see. They still have to be proved. But now at least it's possible. I'd never dared hope for such a perfect match with our own sun.
PICARD: My only regret is that it took us three years to find a suitable sun after you had first contacted us.
TIMICIN: We're not used to dealing with other worlds. We're not used to asking for anything from others. Your offer of help has given us a possible means of survival. It has taken forty years of my life to develop the programming that will control your photon torpedoes. It has been my life. Thank you for this opportunity. My only wish has been to find a way to revive our sun before I die.

[Bridge]
WORF: Mrs Troi, I must protest your unauthorized presence on the Bridge.
LWAXANA: What does that little one do, Mister Woof?
WORF: Please, Madame! That is a torpedo launch initiator, and, it is Worf, Madame, not Woof.
LWAXANA: Oh. Ah, there you are, dear. Where've you been? I've been waiting for you.
LWAXANA: So nice to see you again so soon.
TIMICIN: Mrs Troi.
TROI: Mother, what did you want?
LWAXANA: What?
TROI: You were waiting for me.
LWAXANA: Oh yes, dear, of course I was. You really must let me do something to relieve the tedium of all this work, work, work.
TIMICIN: I'm afraid I'm expected in Engineering. I'm really terribly sorry.
RIKER: Mrs Troi, I have to ask you to clear the Bridge, please.
LWAXANA: I don't see why. There are lots of other people here.
TROI: Mother. Please.
LWAXANA: Well, don't you worry. We'll just have our little chat later.
TIMICIN: I'd never have thought her old enough to be your mother. She is so vibrant.

[Engineering]
TIMICIN: If you look at the next simulation you'll see that we need the temperature to stabilize at two hundred twenty million before there's a secondary or tertiary reaction.
LWAXANA: Enough is enough. Rescue is at hand. Doctor Timicin, would you clear all this mess from the table, please?
LAFORGE: This mess, Mrs Troi
LWAXANA: Now, now, now, you boys have been shut up in here for hours. Now, if you don't eat something, you're going to get sick, and who's that going to help? I've made some perfectly marvelous Mantickian pate. Mister Homn will lay it out for us. Mister Homn is my valet. He doesn't say much.
LAFORGE: How can he?
DATA: It is true that the intellectual efficiency of high order beings does diminish proportionately with the deprivation of nutritious fuel or
LAFORGE: All right, all right. Don't you start.
TIMICIN: Mrs Troi, you're a wise woman. I'm sure we could use a respite.
LWAXANA: These two call me Mrs Troi. You call me Lwaxana. Mister Homn? Spread it.

[Turbolift]
LWAXANA: So, knowing that my daughter's starship would be passing fairly close to Betazed again, I maneuverd a ride and here I am. Deck eight.
TIMICIN: I also have a grown daughter. She has a small son of her own.
LWAXANA: Then you're married.
TIMICIN: My wife died quite some years ago.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: You know, one thing I don't understand. If your people have known for generations that their sun is dying, why not simply evacuate the planet?
TIMICIN: It is our home. It defines who we are as a people. If Kaelon Two ceases to exist, so do we.
LWAXANA: Then you definitely should fix it.
TIMICIN: With the Federation's help, I hope we will.
LWAXANA: And the Federation will be pleased to offer whatever help it can.
LWAXANA: Would you come in for a nightcap?
TIMICIN: That's extremely kind of you, but
LWAXANA: My valet sleeps elsewhere.
TIMICIN: You are delightful. You make me laugh. I mean, I don't mean your invitation makes me laugh. I mean I took it quite seriously. I mean
LWAXANA: Just say yes. I'll make you laugh some more.
TIMICIN: I wish I could. But I must say no. Goodnight, Lwaxana.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44807.5. The Enterprise has arrived at the Praxillus system, where we will conduct Doctor Timicin's helium ignition test.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
TROI: Mother, how much
LWAXANA (voiceover): Little one, why do you refuse to use telepathy even when we are alone?
TROI: We're not alone, Mother. Now how much longer is this going to take? You've been selecting for twenty minutes.
LWAXANA (voiceover): I am a woman dressing for a man. Something you might try now and then, dear. I wonder if Timicin likes green.
TROI: That's not very telepathic of you.
LWAXANA: Oh, I tried telepathy on him. He's the wrong species. Right species for everything else, though. You might try that once in a while, too.
TROI: You know, you're not just incorrigible, you're insatiable.

[Bridge]
WORF: I have completed long range scans. There are no other life forms are present in this system.
RIKER: Spacecraft?
WORF: None within sensor range.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge, the system is clear.
LAFORGE: Final pre-launch diagnostic, level five.
TIMICIN: All systems verified.
LAFORGE: We're ready here when you are, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf?
WORF: Photon torpedoes armed and targeted.
PICARD: Fire in sequence.
WORF: First volley released.
DATA: Tracking torpedoes. Entry program confirmed.
WORF: Second volley released.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Torpedoes now entering the stellar core.
TIMICIN: Their shields are holding. Guidance systems normal.
LAFORGE: Ignition sequence, six seconds

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Five seconds. Four.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Three seconds. Now. Shock wave patterns within predicted range. Seventeen hundred percent rise in gamma radiation levels. Helium fusion rate increasing.
TIMICIN: What about heat and pressure levels?
LAFORGE: Steady so far. Density at eleven hundred grams per cubic centimeter. Temperature approaching sixty million degrees Kelvin.
TIMICIN: We want it to stabilize at two hundred and twenty million.

[Bridge]
DATA: Pressure wave harmonics dispersing. Temperature in target zone increasing to eighty one million degrees, sir.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Still rising.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Temperature at ninety million degrees Kelvin. And now one hundred ten million. Looking good. One hundred thirty seven.

[Bridge]
DATA: Radiation and pressure levels still stable.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Temperature is one hundred and seventy million degrees Kelvin.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: One ninety. And now two hundred million.
TIMICIN: It's happening.
LAFORGE: Two oh seven and rising. Two nineteen. And twenty. Two twenty. And holding. Looks like congratulations may be in order.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Turbulence patterns are within predicted parameters.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Two twenty two.

[Bridge]
DATA: Temperature is rising in the core again, Captain. Two hundred and thirty million degrees Kelvin.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Still rising, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Two fifty one.

[Bridge]
DATA: Rate exceeding critical level. Core density is becoming unstable.
RIKER: Let's get the hell out of here.
PICARD: Ensign, warp two now!

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Sorry.
TIMICIN: Captain Picard?
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor?
TIMICIN: Permit me to express my appreciation to you and your crew. I am most grateful. Most grateful.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course for Kaelon Two. Warp factor five.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Ten Forward]
LWAXANA: I'm so sorry, Timicin. I had one of those named after me once. Brilliant young astronomer from Rigel Four. Of course, I sparkled a bit myself in those days. You see, that's called fishing for a compliment. You're supposed to tell me I still sparkle. I'm sorry, I'm not helping, am I?
TIMICIN: You're very kind. I'm just not adequate company right now.
LWAXANA: Oh, that's all right, I can make enough conversation for both of us. I'll leave you alone.
TIMICIN: No. Please stay. I wanted to tell you how much I wish we had met years ago.
LWAXANA: What difference do a few years make?
TIMICIN: Unfortunately, a great deal. You see, Lwaxana, I'm on my way home now to die.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44812.6. We have returned to Kaelon Two, and established contact with Science Minister B'tardat.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The experiment achieved a stable core temperature for a short time, Minister. That's a significant step forward.
RIKER: We've been studying the sensor logs and the torpedo telemetry to determine if there was any malfunction. If there was, and we are able to isolate the problem, another test might be successful. In the meantime, all of our facilities would be made available to Doctor Timicin.
B'TARDAT (screen): A most thoughtful and generous offer, but Timicin has obligations at home. And it would take us some time to select a replacement.
PICARD: We would be more than willing to extend our visit, sir.
B'TARDAT (screen): That will not be necessary. We'll contact you as soon as we're ready. We expect Timicin to return home as soon as possible. And again, gentlemen, many thanks.
PICARD: Come.
LWAXANA: Are you aware these people you are so graciously helping are murderers?
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
LWAXANA: Well the next thing to it. When a person on this benighted little planet reaches the age of sixty, which Timicin is about to do, they're expected to simply kill themselves. Did you know that?
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The people of Kaelon Two are isolationists, almost to the point of being xenophobes. Regrettably, we know very little about their customs.
LWAXANA: Well, I know. Timicin himself just told me. He is supposed to go down there, to his loving friends, be wined, dined, honored for his achievements and then kill himself. It's a barbaric ritual. The Resolution, it's called. Obviously, you can't let him go, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: I'm afraid I have no choice.
LWAXANA: I don't think you've been listening to me. The man is supposed to kill himself. You don't just let that happen. You don't just turn your back. What's the matter with you!
PICARD: Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but whatever my personal feelings, I have no jurisdiction here. I simply cannot interfere.
LWAXANA: But you have to. In a situation like this, you absolutely have to interfere. You've got to go down there and talk to those people, Jean Luc. Open their eyes, educate them.
PICARD: The Prime Directive forbids us to interfere with the social order of any planet.
LWAXANA: Well, that's your Prime Directive, not mine!
PICARD: Computer, locate Counselor Troi.

[Transporter room]
LWAXANA: What do you mean, I can't go down there? Are you telling me that I'm a prisoner on this ship?
TROI: Mother? What's going on? What are you doing?
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Counselor, I'm not sure what to do here.
LWAXANA: Well, I am sure! I am a Betazoid ambassador. I'm a Daughter of the Fifth House, and those people are going to answer to me! So you just energize this damned thing and get me down there!
TROI: He can't, Mother. He has his orders.
LWAXANA: His orders don't apply to me.
TROI: No, they apply to him.
LWAXANA: Don't you try your professional patronizing on me, young lady. They expect Timicin to die, don't you realize that? Just because he's sixty! What's sixty? It's nothing.
O'BRIEN: I'll go check the pattern buffers.
TROI (voiceover): Come on, Mother, let's sit down.
LWAXANA (voiceover): I'm sorry, little one. I don't know what's wrong with me. I'm sorry.
TROI (voiceover): There's no need to be.
LWAXANA (voiceover): But I'm crying. I don't cry.
TROI (voiceover): You cried when father died.
LWAXANA: You remember that?
TROI: Of course I remember. We both cried.
LWAXANA: But this isn't the same. Is it?
TROI: What do you think?
LWAXANA: I don't know. I just can't accept that fate will allow me to meet him like this and then take him away. I mean, he's not ill. He hasn't had a tragic accident. He's just going to die, and for no good reason. Because his society has decided that he's too old, so they just dispose of him as though his life no longer had value or meaning. You can't possibly understand at your age, but at mine, sometimes you feel tired and afraid.
TROI: You're feeling very vulnerable. Very mortal, if I may say so. I know you, Mother, and believe me, you will never be one of those who dies before they die.

[Timicin's quarters]
TIMICIN: Come in.
TIMICIN: I've been studying the preliminary reports of the test. I don't understand where I went wrong. I thought I'd taken into account all of the variables. Deep convection patterns, proton reactions, neutrino count.
TIMICIN: I will say it again. You are a kind woman.
LWAXANA: No, no, I'm a hateful woman. I hate what you're going to do, and I hate you for doing it.
TIMICIN: It is the way of my world. I wish you could accept that.
LWAXANA: I never will. Never.
TIMICIN: How long have you been sitting there?
LWAXANA: I don't know. A minute. An hour.
TIMICIN: Lwaxana
LWAXANA: Do you want anything? Some tea?
TIMICIN: I want to explain. I want very much for you to understand. Fifteen or twenty centuries ago, we had no Resolution. We had no such concern for our elders. As people aged, their health failed, they became invalids. Those whose families could no longer care for them were put away in deathwatch facilities, where they waited in loneliness for the end to come, sometimes for years. They had meant something, and they were forced to live beyond that, into a time of meaning nothing, of knowing they could now only be the beneficiaries of younger people's patience. We are no longer that cruel, Lwaxana.
LWAXANA: No, no, you're not cruel to them. You just kill them.
TIMICIN: The Resolution is a celebration of life. It allows us to end our lives with dignity.
LWAXANA: A celebration of life. It sounds very noble, very caring. What you're really saying is you got rid of the problem by getting rid of the people.
TIMICIN: It may sound that way, but it is a time of transition. One generation passing on the responsibilities of life to the next.
LWAXANA: What about the responsibility of caring of the elderly?
TIMICIN: That would place a dreadful burden on the children.
LWAXANA: We raise them, we care for them, we suffer for them. We keep them from harm their whole lives. Eventually, it's their turn to take care of us.
TIMICIN: No parent should expect to be paid back for the love they've given their children.
LWAXANA: Well why the hell not? Oskoids.
TIMICIN: What's that?
LWAXANA: Oskoids. A Betazed delicacy.
TIMICIN: Looks very interesting.
LWAXANA: You should have tried it while you were still alive. No reason to bother now. Why sixty? Why not sixty two, or fifty eight?
TIMICIN: A reasonable age had to be set.
LWAXANA: But it's not reasonable. Certainly not in your case. You're as vital and healthy a man as I've ever known.
TIMICIN: That is why I wish to say goodbye to my family and colleagues while I am this way, in complete command of my faculties, knowing they will always remember me as a strong and vigorous man.
LWAXANA: But it makes no sense. Some of your people could still be active at seventy or eighty, and others might be seriously ill at fifty. How cruel of you to make them wait so long to commit suicide.
TIMICIN: Setting a standard age for the Resolution makes it uniform for everybody. To ask individual families to decide when their elders are to die, that would be heartless.
LWAXANA: I agree. Why not let everybody die when they die.
TIMICIN: Lwaxana.
LWAXANA: You have a grandson, you said.
TIMICIN: Yes, almost seven.
LWAXANA: Well, wouldn't it be better for him to know his grandfather? Not some vague memory of someone who once loved him, but a real living person who does love him. Don't you really think that would be better?
TIMICIN: I attended the Resolution of my parents when it was their time. It was beautiful. Lwaxana, this is a custom I've known and accepted all my life.
LWAXANA: The women of Betazed used to wear these enormous wigs with large holes in the cenre for tiny caged animals.
TIMICIN: Yes.
LWAXANA: First, it was a fashion. Then it went on long enough to become a custom, a tradition. But it was uncomfortable for the woman and cruel to the animal. So then one day, one very formidable woman finally said so, refused ever to wear another of those wigs. fairly soon the custom stopped. She had the courage to stand up and fight for change.
TIMICIN: She must have been a lot like you.
LWAXANA: Timicin, there is no one more qualified, more experienced, or more likely to save their planet than you. And they would have you kill yourself.
TIMICIN: Younger scientists will take my place. My work, the work will continue.
LWAXANA: Your planet has what, thirty, forty years left? What if your scientists can't find the answer without you? What then? What chance do you think your grandson has of reaching the age of sixty?
TIMICIN: Enough, please. It is my time, Lwaxana, and that is the way it is.
LWAXANA: If that's the way it is, I don't know why anyone's bothering to try to save your world at all. If its time has come, let it die. Where's the difference, Timicin? Where?

[Engineering]
TIMICIN: Convection boundary uncoupling. The reaction caused gas turbulence of a totally unexpected magnitude. Why?
DATA: There was a evidence of a delayed surface shock.
TIMICIN: No, I'd anticipated that. I thought I'd anticipated all possible variables, but stars, they're like living entities in a way. Quite unpredictable. You know, I wouldn't be at all surprised if this were the result of. Look here. Forty two seconds into the test, there is a sudden rise in the level of hydrogen alpha emissions. And here, here's another. I'm right, aren't I? There had to be neutron migration within the star's inner core as the reaction grew.
DATA: Perhaps, Doctor, but there is no known method for controlling a neutron migration.
TIMICIN: Yes, yes, but theoretically it is possible. Using these test results, we could construct a new computer model of the energy dynamics of a star that can test a new detonation program. I'm certain it can be accomplished. Certain. It's just a matter of time. A matter of time.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Timicin. Time for you to leave us, then?
TIMICIN: Captain, I have come to officially request asylum aboard The Enterprise.
B'TARDAT (screen): Timicin, I cannot believe this. Why asylum? Asylum from what?
TIMICIN: I turn sixty in four days, Minister.
B'TARDAT (screen): Yes, and your family and colleagues are already gathering for your Resolution.
TIMICIN: I believe that it is time for us to re-examine, as a people, the wisdom of The Resolution.
B'TARDAT (screen): Are they forcing you into this? Are you being coerced?
TIMICIN: Influenced, perhaps. Coerced, no.
PICARD: Our only influence, Minister, is by example. Timicin's decision is his own free will, I assure you.
B'TARDAT (screen): I cannot believe that a man of Timicin's stature would freely choose to reject his own culture.
TIMICIN: No one on Kaelon Two understands this project as I do. There are new theories that would take others a decade to test and confirm. With my guidance, it can be done in half that time. I must finish my work.
B'TARDAT (screen): Others started your work, others will finish it. It's always been this way. It always will.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, scanners indicate two Kaelon warships rising on an intercept course.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Commander. Minister, we're here in friendship, hoping to provide assistance.
B'TARDAT (screen): You have helped quite enough, Captain. I suggest you return Timicin and depart. If you attempt to leave orbit with Timicin on board, our ships have been ordered to open fire.
TIMICIN: B'tardat, there's no purpose at all in letting this become
TIMICIN: It shouldn't have happened. I've handled this poorly.
PICARD: You acted in good conscience, Doctor. I don't see what else you could have done.
TIMICIN: I could have let well enough alone. I could have returned home. What do you think, Captain? Have I done the right thing?
PICARD: I'm afraid you're the only one who can answer that.
TIMICIN: Lwaxana would have me lead a revolt. I'm only a scientist. I wish I had her strength. She is a woman of extraordinary conviction, isn't she?
PICARD: Isn't she.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any communication, Number One?
RIKER: No, sir. We have an open channel.
WORF: The warships are taking a standard attack posture. Staggered approach vectors, within weapons range.
PICARD: Shields up. Red alert.
TIMICIN: Captain.
PICARD: Doctor, I suggest that you return to your quarters.
TIMICIN: I don't want there to be any bloodshed because of my decision.
CRUSHER: They will be doing everything they can to avoid it. I think we should get out of their way now.
TIMICIN: Yes. Yes, of course. I understand.
PICARD: Mister Worf, ascertain their offensive potential.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
TIMICIN: We must transmit the new analysis of the neutron migration immediately. If I can make them see the direction I've taken
LAFORGE: We've already tried.
DATA: They refuse to accept further reports from you, Doctor.
TIMICIN: They have to accept them. If I can re-establish computer interface with the science ministry.
LAFORGE: They've disengaged the link-up, Doctor.
TIMICIN: Why don't they answer? Even if I find the solution, you will not accept it! Because I do not terminate my life, they terminate my work. Alive, I am a greater threat to my world than a dying sun.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: But Jean-Luc will find a way to settle this. He always does.
TIMICIN: No, my decision will only lead to more distrust of other worlds. Nothing will change.
LWAXANA: Now don't be foolish.
TIMICIN: I am not being foolish! Lwaxana, I want to live because I see in you how much I have to live for. You make me realize that my life still has value. I can be an example to my people. I can finish my work. But discovering these new desires and not being able to do anything about them, not being able to finish my work, not being able to reach my people.
LWAXANA: You have made a statement about the sanctity of life, and it will be heard, Timicin.
TIMICIN: Who will hear it from light years away? Where will I go now, Lwaxana? I'm a man without a world. I can't go home.
LWAXANA: Timicin.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Doctor Timicin. You have a visitor coming aboard.
TIMICIN: B'Tardat?

[Bridge]
RIKER: No, sir. It's your daughter.

[Timicin's quarters]
TIMICIN: Dara.
DARA: Father.
TIMICIN: This is Lwaxana Troi. She has been a host and a friend.
LWAXANA: I've been looking forward to meeting you, Dara.
TIMICIN: Whatever you have to say to me, can be said in front of her.
DARA: I see. Father, come home. This is wrong.
TIMICIN: Dara, if I could show you the work I have begun. There's still so much for me to do.
DARA: There's nothing for me to look at. It is irrelevant.
LWAXANA: Your father's work may save your world, my dear. I would hardly consider that irrelevant.
DARA: All I'm concerned with now is you, not your work. Your work is over. It is your time to rest.
LWAXANA: Perhaps you will feel differently as you get a little older, say approaching sixty.
DARA: My father taught me to cherish The Resolution. I don't know how you have poisoned him to reject it.
LWAXANA: It's an obscene ritual.
DARA: How dare you. How dare you criticize my way of life, my beliefs.
TIMICIN: Please. Please, Dara. Please.
DARA: Where will you go?
TIMICIN: I don't know.
DARA: And where will you die? I cannot bear the thought of you being laid to rest on some other world. That you will not lie beside my mother. That I will not be able to lie beside you when my Resolution comes. I'm sorry. I don't know how you can go on with your life knowing that each day you live is an insult to everything we believe in. Father, I love you. But I am ashamed.
TIMICIN: I would like to be alone now, please.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: I am suddenly suddenly not sure of myself. It's a feeling I'm not at all used to. I don't think I like it very much, little one.
TROI: Not sure of yourself?
LWAXANA: My life has been full. Now and then, perhaps it's overflowed a little, but I enjoy living. And now I am asking myself is it possible I was wrong to encourage Timicin to choose life?
TROI: You were honest with him, Mother. You had to be.
LWAXANA: Maybe I want him to live just to keep me company.
TROI: Of course you do. But you didn't do this for yourself, you did it for him.
LWAXANA: Did I? Then look what I've done to him. He's like a man who's lost his faith. I never considered how deeply ingrained this Resolution liturgy is.
TROI: Ritual provides a structure in society, good rituals and bad rituals alike.
LWAXANA: Well, this is a bad one.
TROI: Your point of view.
LWAXANA: It should be the point of view of any reasonably intelligent middle-aged person. Unfortunately, it is not.
TROI: I'll see you later, Mother. Excuse me.
TIMICIN: Thank you.
LWAXANA: You're going back.
TIMICIN: Do you believe I love you? I do, you know. But finally, if that is my only reason to stay alive.
LWAXANA: It's not enough.
TIMICIN: Almost. Almost but not quite. I can't be that selfish, Lwaxana. I am not the person to lead the revolt.

[Transporter room]
TIMICIN: I do apologize for all the turmoil I've created.
PICARD: Doctor, I would deeply regret it if you were returning only to ease diplomatic tensions.
TIMICIN: It is more. Much more.
PICARD: Then I wish you and your people well.
TIMICIN: When it is time for another test, I will encourage my people to seek your assistance again.
PICARD: If for any reason you would like to wait a few minutes.
TIMICIN: No. We have already said our goodbyes.
TIMICIN: Lwaxana?
LWAXANA: It is the custom for your loved ones to join you at this Resolution, is it not?
TIMICIN: You do not have to do this.
LWAXANA: Yes, I do. Permission to disembark, Captain. I promise I won't cause any problems down there.
PICARD: Permission granted.
LWAXANA: We're ready, Mister O'Brien.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Ambassador Odan, Doctor Crusher. I was just on my way to speak to you.
CRUSHER: Hello, Data.
DATA: I have completed my study on the atmospheric variations which have occurred on the moon since the new technology was implemented.
ODAN: Thank you, Commander. That will be most helpful in my efforts to mediate the quarrel.
DATA: I could go over it with you now. It would not require more than two hours.
CRUSHER: We do appreciate that, Data, but the Ambassador and I have set aside this time to analyze the incidence of the lung disease on the moon's inhabitants.
DATA: Then it is perfect timing, Doctor. What better occasion to integrate my results into your study?
ODAN: Now that I think about it, you're absolutely right, Commander. Unfortunately, I'm not feeling very well. Perhaps Doctor Crusher could get you started inputting your information. I myself must return to my quarters.
CRUSHER: Ambassador, are you still having those awful headaches? I'd better bring you a hypospray to take care of it.
ODAN: I would be most grateful.
CRUSHER: Okay.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Put a cold cloth on your forehead, Ambassador. I'll do my best to be with you shortly.
CRUSHER: I'll set you up at the medical monitor, Data. It'll take you a while to input the figures, won't it?
DATA: At least an hour, but I do not believe much time can be saved by exhibiting such haste now.
CRUSHER: Data, there are times when every second does count.

[Odan's quarters]
ODAN: Somehow, I had an unnatural fear that Data was going to barge in and ask to discuss the peripheral effects of magnetospheric energy taps.
CRUSHER: Well if I don't get back soon and take a look at his projections, he just might come looking for me.
ODAN: Do you know, when I first met the formidable Doctor Beverly, what, ten days ago? I thought to myself, this woman is ice through to her bones. Who would have ever guessed that instead of ice, there is fire.
CRUSHER: Odan.
ODAN: Stay here, don't go.
CRUSHER: Odan, are we? Is this interfering with your work on the Peliar Zel problems?
ODAN: Fortunately, I've done about as much as I can until we get there. Because I just can't seem to keep my mind on my work right now.
CRUSHER: Odan, I have to go.
ODAN: Promise me we'll be together tonight.
CRUSHER: I promise.
ODAN: Then you may go, Doctor Beverly.
CRUSHER: It's just Beverly.
ODAN: Not just Beverly. It's Beverly's smile, it's her kindness, her beauty within and without. So much more than just Beverly.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Ambassador Odan.

[Ready room]
ODAN (voiceover): Yes, Captain? This is Odan.
PICARD: The Federation representative from Peliar Zel has come on board. Would you care to meet us in the Observation Lounge?

[Odan's quarters]
ODAN: I'll be right there, Captain.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: If the news were encouraging, I assume you would not be here.
LEKA: I'm afraid you're correct, Captain. The situation's growing progressively worse.
TROI: Where've you been?
CRUSHER: With a patient. Minor emergency.
PICARD: Ambassador Odan, this is Governor Leka Trion of Peliar Zel.
LEKA: Ambassador. thank you for coming. I knew your father. His efforts helped keep our people at peace for several generations.
ODAN: I would hope to serve you as well as he.
PICARD: Governor. Ambassador.
DATA: I hope Doctor Crusher was able to help you with your headache.
ODAN: Thank you. Actually, she was.
PICARD: Governor Leka has intercepted us before we reach her planet in order to update us on the situation.
LEKA: The people on our moons have been in discord ever since they migrated from our planet five centuries ago. To us on the planet They're like two squabbling children. We try to help settle their arguments by not taking sides, but this time we are at a loss.
ODAN: I've been studying the information you sent. If I understand correctly, the people of Alpha moon have found a way to tap directly into the magnetic field of your planet, and now rely exclusively on that energy source.
LEKA: Yes, but the Beta moon is now suffering some environmental damage as a result.
DATA: My design models suggest that Beta will eventually experience rising temperatures, erratic tide surges and in general the beginnings of global warming.
CRUSHER: The impact on the health of the Betan people is clear. There will be profound medical repercussions.
LEKA: Alpha is unwilling to give up its new-found energy source. Beta accuses them of intentionally courting genocide. Our efforts to reach a compromise have failed. And now, we have received intelligence that both sides are arming for war. If that happens the people of my planet will begin to take sides, and the outcome can only be disastrous.
PICARD: We will be in orbit around Peliar Zel within six hours. If you could arrange for the representatives of Alpha and Beta to be there, then Ambassador Odan could beam directly down to the planet.
ODAN: Excuse me, Captain. I prefer to shuttle to the surface.
LEKA: I would not recommend it. There are many radical factions involved in this dispute. It would be difficult to guarantee your safety.
ODAN: I'm sure I'm not the first who has expressed discomfort at the idea of molecular transport. Thank you, but I prefer to remain intact. I'll shuttle down.
PICARD: As you wish.
PICARD: Counselor, what is it?
TROI: It's Ambassador Odan. I continually feel fluctuations of emotion from him.
PICARD: Perhaps it's perfectly normal among the Trill.
TROI: It could be. We know so very little about them.
PICARD: Yes. Quite.

[Beauty parlor]
WOMAN: Hi, Deanna.
TROI: Hi. Is that the colgonite astringent you have on your eyes?
CRUSHER: Yes. I guess so.
TROI: I've never tried it.
CRUSHER: Someone just put it on me.
TROI: I didn't know you even came in here.
CRUSHER: I don't. At least, not very often.
TROI: But it feels good to indulge yourself sometimes.
CRUSHER: I guess so.
TROI: Especially when you haven't done so in a while.
CRUSHER: What is that supposed to mean?
TROI: Beverly, you're in love.
CRUSHER: Sometimes I wish you weren't so empathic
TROI: I don't really think it's really a secret.
CRUSHER: It isn't?
TROI: You've been glowing.
CRUSHER: Oh. Must be the astringent. What?
TROI: Nothing.
CRUSHER: Oh, yes, there is. What is it?
TROI: It's just something I sense in Odan.
CRUSHER: What? What do you sense?
TROI: It's just, how well do you really know him?
CRUSHER: I feel I know him better than I've known anyone in my life. Am I being foolish? I don't think so. And yet, I've only known him for a couple of weeks. Of course, that could be infatuation, but I am a grown up and I know the difference between love and infatuation. All I know is, I haven't felt this way for a long time.
TROI: And you like it.
CRUSHER: I like it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
ODAN: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Ambassador. Please, sit down. We have entered orbit. We shall be transporting you to the planet in a few minutes.
ODAN: I am ready, Captain.
PICARD: How will you proceed when you're there?
ODAN: Oh, I cannot answer that. I never know until I am into the situation, meet the people involved. I work very much by instinct, not by pre-arranged plan.
PICARD: It seems to work well for you.
ODAN: Well, I do like to go into a situation as well-informed as possible, and I must say that your staff has been quite helpful in briefing me on the problems down here. Particularly Doctor Crusher.
PICARD: My staff is quite capable. I'm glad they've been useful.
ODAN: Your Doctor Beverly is an extraordinary person, both as a scientist and as a woman.
PICARD: Yes, I'm sure that's true. Well, shall we make our way to the shuttlebay?
ODAN: Captain, you know her better than I. Do you have any idea how committed she is to remaining with Starfleet?
PICARD: I wouldn't presume to speak for her.
ODAN: Oh no, of course not. I just thought, well, you've known her so much long than I.
TAGGART (voiceover): Ensign Taggart to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Ensign.
TAGGART (voiceover): The shuttle is ready to transport the Ambassador.
PICARD: Very well.
ODAN: I'll find my own way, Captain. I hope to return with good news.

[Shuttlebay]
LAFORGE: Commander Riker has asked to pilot you himself, Ambassador.
ODAN: I am honored.
ODAN: I don't know when I'll be back.
CRUSHER: I know. Have a safe trip.
ODAN: I will stay safe, Doctor Beverly. I have good reason to return. I've researched Earth customs. This flower is given to express love.
CRUSHER: Yes, it is.

[Bridge]
DATA: Initiate shuttle preflight sequence.
RIKER (voiceover): Preflight underway. Counting to clearance.
DATA: Shuttle has cleared the bay door.
WORF: Commander Riker, you will be out of shield range in five seconds.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Lieutenant. We'll be entering the upper ionosphere in two minutes and twenty seconds.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, an unidentified ship is emerging from the limb of the moon.
PICARD: Hail the vessel.
RIKER (voiceover): I have visual contact. I don't recognize it.
WORF: It claims to be an escort vessel from the Beta moon.
PICARD: There was no mention of an escort. Request a security clearance code.
WORF: They do not answer, sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, prepare to return to the shuttlebay.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged.
WORF: Captain, they are loading its phaser banks.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Increasing power to the shields.
RIKER: Coming about.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Engage tractor beam. Report, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): We've lost port thrusters

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: And both backup stabilizers. I'm losing control.
PICARD (voiceover): We're bringing you in.
RIKER: Captain, the shuttle hull has been weakened. We're breaking up. You can't tow us. You'd better beam us directly on board.
ODAN: No, don't do it.
RIKER: I can't stabilize the shuttle.
ODAN: If you transport me, it will kill me. Please.
PICARD (voiceover): Number One we're ready to beam you aboard.
RIKER: Belay that order, Captain. I'll bring her in manually.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Advise Doctor Crusher we have a medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's in shock, he's lost a lot of blood, but that still doesn't explain these readings. Eosinophilia in the cerebrospinal fluid at forty six percent.
OGAWA: Sedimentation rate is twenty nine, but his lymphocytes are still intact.
CRUSHER: It's as though there's a parasite at work. Odan, Odan. I need to do exploratory surgery. You may have a parasitic infection.
ODAN: You must not.
CRUSHER: But you won't survive.
CRUSHER: What is that?
ODAN: Beverly, that is me.
CRUSHER: What?
ODAN: This body is just a host. I am that parasite. That is what must survive. It has always been this way. The Trill are a joined species. A host and a symbiont, and in this fashion we have survived for millennia.
CRUSHER: You're dying. What can I do?
ODAN: The host body is dying. You must contact the Trill quickly. Tell them I need another host. They will send a replacement. I know this is difficult to accept, but I beg you, Doctor Beverly, help me. This mission must be completed.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Odan's host body died of the injuries just over an hour ago. But the symbiont being, Odan, is still alive. Odan is the one who negotiated the last treaty, but the man everyone thought was his father was just another host body.
RIKER: And the reason Odan refused the transporter?
CRUSHER: It would have damaged the symbiont.
PICARD: We've contacted the Trill. Another host will be here in forty hours.
CRUSHER: I've placed Odan in stasis. He can survive another hour, maybe two, but not beyond that.
DATA: Would it be possible for me to serve as a temporary carrier?
CRUSHER: No, Data. The relationship requires a biological being.
PICARD: We are at a desperate impasse in the Peliar system. The attack on the shuttlecraft has inflamed the dispute.
TROI: Who was responsible?
PICARD: No one will admit anything. Each side accuses the other and the threats are mounting. We need Odan.
RIKER: Doctor, could a human host carry him?
CRUSHER: I believe so. From Odan's description of the process it should be possible. But I don't have
RIKER: Then I volunteer.
CRUSHER: There's been no precedent for a human host. I couldn't guarantee what might happen.
PICARD: The risk is too great, Commander.
RIKER: Weigh it against the prospect of war.
PICARD: It's your choice, Will.
RIKER: Let's get to it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've given you a local anesthetic. You must be conscious during the implantation. Drugs might damage the symbiont.
RIKER: I understand.
CRUSHER: Laser scalpel.
CRUSHER: How do you feel? Is there pain?
RIKER: No, just some strange sensations.
CRUSHER: Vital signs?
OGAWA: Heart rate one hundred ten. Blood pressure ninety over forty.
CRUSHER: I can't close yet, The assimilation's not complete.
OGAWA: Pulse one thirty and climbing. EEG is erratic.
CRUSHER: He's going to start fibrillating. Two hundred milligrams of metrazene.
NURSE: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Hang on, Will.
NURSE: We've got incorporation, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I'm closing.
NURSE: Brain waves are still irregular.
CRUSHER: The metrazene should have stabilized him. I'll give it ten seconds more before we go in again.
NURSE: Here we go. EEG approaching regular.
OGAWA: Blood pressure leveling off.
CRUSHER: That's better. Signs are returning to normal. Will, it's Beverly. Can you hear me?
RIKER: Hello.
CRUSHER: You're going to be all right. How do you feel?
RIKER: I'm fine. You look a little tired, Doctor Beverly.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I know this must be disturbing, Governor, but you must convince the inhabitants of the moons that I am Odan. I have his skills, his thoughts, his memories.
LEKA (screen): They will perceive you as a Starfleet officer, perhaps with your own agenda.
RIKER: The man they knew as my father, the man who stands before them, both are merely hosts. It is your task to help them understand.
LEKA (screen): I will try. I cannot promise they will listen. They are more factionalised than ever. Listening is a skill which seems to have evaporated with the heat of argument.
RIKER: Speak softly, Governor. Those who cannot hear an angry shout may strain to hear a whisper.
LEKA (screen): I will do what I can.
PICARD: Well done. Mister Worf, will you escort the Ambassador to his quarters.
RIKER: I'm just a little dizzy. I'll be fine. I just need to lie down.
PICARD: Picard to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Doctor, the Ambassador is not well. Will you please attend to him in his quarters.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Right away, sir.

[Odan's quarters]
CRUSHER: White cell count is elevated, six tenths of a degree of temperature. But no sign of rejection.
RIKER: That's good.
CRUSHER: You look awfully pale.
RIKER: Just a little weak and light-headed.
CRUSHER: Cerebral blood flow looks normal. I'll leave you a metabolic booster. Use it if the symptoms get worse.
RIKER: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Beyond that, I don't know what to do. This is all new to me.
RIKER: It is new to me as well. Please, don't go. We've got to talk about this.
CRUSHER: I don't know what to say.
RIKER: Nor do I, but I know that this silence will injure us.
CRUSHER: Well maybe you should have thought about that sooner. Maybe you should have told me what you were. It didn't seem to bother you to remain silent yesterday.
RIKER: It never occurred to me. This is what I am. Did you ever tell me that you are only a single being? Of course not. That was normal to you.
CRUSHER: I don't know who you are.
RIKER: You must understand, whoever I seem to be, I am Odan, who loved you. That has not changed. I still love you. I can't help that. If this causes you pain, I will suppress it, I will keep my distance. Doctor Beverly, I would never hurt you.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: May I join you?
CRUSHER: You know, Deanna, the first man I ever loved unconditionally was named Stefan. He was a soccer player, and I would watch him as he would race down the field and I thought my heart would stop because he was so beautiful. We married and had three children. Twin boys, Andrew and Alexander, and then later a little girl, Jennifer. Stefan became an artist, very famous. He created huge, breathtaking, metal sculptures. He came to adore me as much as I worshiped him. In my daydreams at least. Stefan was eleven and I was eight. He never even knew I existed. Oh, Deanna, I loved Odan. I'm sure of it. I had no doubts, no fears, but what it was I loved? His eyes? His hands? His mouth? They're gone. If that was all it was, I should mourn him and go on. But it was more than that. I felt completely free with him. Unguarded. At ease with myself. There were so many things that made him special to me. Where are they? Are they still here, alive in Will Riker? I look at Will and I see someone I've known for years. A kind of brother. But inside, is he really Odan? Help me, please.
TROI: What do your feelings tell you?
CRUSHER: I feel his pull. It's very powerful. I wish he'd never come on this ship.
TROI: Don't wish that, Beverly. You can't be open to love if you don't risk pain.
CRUSHER: I don't care. I'd give anything not to feel the way I do now. He's here, isn't he?
TROI: Look at him.
CRUSHER: I don't want to look at him. Talk to me. Just keep talking to me.
TROI: The first man I ever loved was my father. He was strong and tall. He carried me when the ground was muddy. He chased away the monsters that hid under my bed at night. And he sang to me, and kept me safe. And he went away. What I wouldn't give to hear those songs again. To feel his arms protect me. I never will, but I can still feel his warmth and his love as though he were here with me. If you can feel those things from the man we know as Will Riker, accept them. Accept the love.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44823.8. Representatives of the two moons of Peliar Zel have agreed to come on board to meet the new Ambassador Odan.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: White count is elevated. It's getting higher and higher every time I read it. Are you in pain?
RIKER: Not much.
PICARD: Ambassador, we can stall the representatives.
RIKER: They would see that as deception. I must meet with them.
PICARD: But surely, to present yourself in this condition is not going to help our cause.
RIKER: I promise you, Captain, they will never know that I am ill.
WORF: Captain, the emissaries.
LEKA: May I present Kalin Trose of Alpha Moon, and Lathal Bine of Beta Moon.
KALIN: Thank you for receiving us, Captain.
LATHAL: Is this Ambassador Odan?
RIKER: Lathal Bine. It was your aunt who represented Beta thirty years ago.
LATHAL: That is correct.
RIKER: She was a formidable woman. I had the utmost respect for her.
KALIN: And who was it who spoke for Alpha so long ago?
RIKER: That was you, of course, Kalin Trose. Then you were a young man, bristling with passion and zeal, yet wise enough to understand that your people needed peace to ensure their future.
KALIN: And how did you manage to achieve a compromise between that young man and the iron willed woman of Beta Moon?
RIKER: They agreed to trade places for a week, to understand each other's situation with more informed eyes. After that an agreement came swiftly.
KALIN: Nothing that you have said is beyond what a school child could learn in a history book.
RIKER: What is not commonly known that during those negotiations, you, Kalin Trose, quelled a plot by a radical from your moon who was attempting to assassinate the Beta delegate.
KALIN: It is true.
LATHAL: Perhaps he was wiser in his youth than he is now. Odan, you must convince him to stop.
RIKER: Will you accept me? Will you allow me to work with you?
LATHAL: Yes.
RIKER: And Alpha moon?
KALIN: I will consider it, but I must consult others.
LATHAL: This is a typical tactic. He is an obstructionist. You can see that.
RIKER: Kalin Trose, you may confer with your people, but we must have your answer within eight hours.
KALIN: You shall have it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His vital functions are overworked. His immune system is under attack. I can only guess that he's suffering from classic rejection syndrome.
PICARD: Is there any treatment you can give him?
CRUSHER: I can administer an immunosuppressant. That could help relieve the symptoms but it Can't correct the underlying cause. There is a foreign organism in his body. Medical school didn't exactly prepare me for situations like this.
PICARD: You're doing all you can.
CRUSHER: Don't worry about me, Captain. I'm fine.
PICARD: Ambassador, when you feel up to it, would you join me in my Ready room?
RIKER: Of course.
CRUSHER: I'm giving you something that should help with the pain. At least for a little while.
RIKER: The pain's gone. Thank you.
CRUSHER: Please don't.
RIKER: Please let me touch you, just for a moment.
CRUSHER: No. Please.

[Ready room]
PICARD: It was a fast decision, which we must take as positive. The Alphan representative has agreed, however reluctantly. to let you mediate the dispute.
RIKER: I knew they would. They are reasonable people, they're just trapped in their own anger.
PICARD: I have no doubt, however, that they will bolt if something goes wrong in the discussion.
RIKER: Then it's my job to see nothing goes wrong. Did I said something wrong, Captain Picard?
PICARD: No, it's just that for a moment you sounded more like Will Riker. We have received information that the new host will arrive in eighteen hours. Will you be all right until then?
RIKER: The medication Doctor Beverly gave me has helped. I will find a way to keep going.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Lemon tea.

[Odan's quarters]
RIKER: Computer, location of Doctor Beverly Crusher.
COMPUTER: Doctor Crusher is in her quarters.
RIKER: Can you make balso tonic?
COMPUTER: There is no formula on record. Please supply a molecular structure.
RIKER: Never mind.
RIKER: Come in.
CRUSHER: I thought I should see how you were doing. If you needed another hypospray?
RIKER: I don't think so. The symptoms haven't returned.
CRUSHER: Oh. Well, that's good.
RIKER: Yes.
CRUSHER: Tomorrow's an important day. Do you feel ready for it?
RIKER: I'll be fine. I've been preparing.
CRUSHER: That's good.
RIKER: Yes.
CRUSHER: I'll check your vital signs in the morning before the representatives get here.
RIKER: I don't want them knowing I'm taking any medication.
CRUSHER: Maybe you could schedule a series of breaks.
RIKER: That's good.
CRUSHER: Yes.
RIKER: Beverly, I want you. If you're going to leave, you'd better go right now.
CRUSHER: I'm not leaving.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44824.4. Governor Leka and the representatives of the two moons are ready to transport on board. We have learned that they each have troops massed and are ready for combat if this final effort at peace is not successful.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: White count is back up, temperature is elevated. The effects of the medication are wearing off faster every time. I'll administer one now and hope that it will hold for an hour or two.
RIKER: No, no more.
PICARD: Ambassador, it's clear you're in pain. You can't get through the next hours without help.
RIKER: I must.
CRUSHER: Are the injections damaging to the host's body, Riker's body?
RIKER: Yes. We can't put him through any further risk.
CRUSHER: But how can you function, conduct the meeting?
RIKER: I'll manage.
PICARD: We'll respect your wishes.
RIKER: One more thing. I will conduct the mediations today, but at the end of today, regardless of the outcome, I must be removed from Riker's body. Even if the new host has not arrived.
CRUSHER: But you wouldn't survive.
RIKER: Riker will not survive if I am removed. He has done enough. Your word.
CRUSHER: Very well.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Worf?
WORF (voiceover): The Governor and the two representatives have returned. I will escort them to the Observation Lounge.
PICARD: Thank you.
CRUSHER: I'll stand by with the medication, just in case. The pain may become so intense that I'll have to
PICARD: Beverly. Whatever else I may be to you, I am your friend. I can only imagine what you're going through, and I want you to know I'm here.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Computer, what is the time?
COMPUTER: Fifteen thirty five hours.
CRUSHER: They've been in there for almost six hours.
WORF: Captain, I am receiving a message from the ship carrying the Trill host.
CRUSHER: Are they here, Worf?
WORF: No, they are experiencing difficulty. They do not anticipate their arrival for another nine hours.
CRUSHER: Nine hours.
RIKER: It was worth it.
PICARD: Ambassador!
RIKER: They will not go to war.
PICARD: Mister Worf, see that the representatives are safely transported off the ship. Ensign, set a course to intercept with the Trill ship. Prepare to go to warp nine.
DATA: Sir, it could take more than two hours to reach the vessel.
CRUSHER: I must remove him. I gave my word.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Will is going to be all right. His vital signs have stabilized and he's sleeping now.
PICARD: How is Odan?
CRUSHER: I've placed him in stasis. He's fine for the moment.
PICARD: You need some rest, Doctor.
CRUSHER: No. If Odan is to survive, he needs to be implanted in the new host as soon as he arrives. I'll wait here.
PICARD: It'll be some time.
CRUSHER: I know.
WORF: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Is the Trill host here?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: Good. Bring him in.
WORF: Doctor?
KAREEL: I am Kareel. I am to become host to Odan.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: The operation to implant Odan into the new host was completed at nineteen hundred hours and appears to have been successful. There were no difficulties in assimilation.
KAREEL: Doctor Beverly, could we talk for a moment?
CRUSHER: You should be sleeping. You need to rest.
KAREEL: I've never felt better, except once or twice. My poor Beverly. This has been so hard for you. I want to thank you for your caring, for your standing by me.
CRUSHER: I congratulate you. You averted a war that would have cost many lives.
KAREEL: Yes. It seems as though everything has turned out for the best. And yes, I am still Odan, and I still love you. I cannot imagine that ever changing.
CRUSHER: I am glad that you're all right.
KAREEL: Is there to be nothing more?
CRUSHER: Perhaps it is a human failing, but we are not accustomed to these kinds of changes. I can't keep up. How long will you have this host? What would the next one be? I can't live with that kind of uncertainty. Perhaps, someday, our ability to love won't be so limited.
KAREEL: I understand.
CRUSHER: Odan, I do love you. Please remember that.
KAREEL: I will never forget you.

[Shuttlecraft]
LAFORGE: How about some different music, Computer. Something with a Latin beat. No, I meant something with a gentle Latin beat. Maybe a Spanish guitar. Perfect. Hey, what's the weather like on Risa?
COMPUTER: Risa is climate-controlled for optimum tourist comfort,
LAFORGE: Is that right? How long before we get there?
COMPUTER: Arrival at Risa is scheduled for oh nine thirty two hours.
LAFORGE: Three hours. How about a game, computer?
COMPUTER: Please restate request.
LAFORGE: Something to pass the time, you know, a diversion.
COMPUTER: Select either visual interactive or verbal interactive.
LAFORGE: Verbal.
COMPUTER: You have twenty seconds to respond to each question. Level of difficulty will increase as you progress. Proceed when ready.
LAFORGE: Begin.
COMPUTER: List the resonances of the subquantum states associated with transitional relativity.
LAFORGE: That's easy.
COMPUTER: In alphabetical order.
LAFORGE: Er, well, asymmetrical, inverted, phased, stable.
COMPUTER: Your time has expired.
COMPUTER: The fifth resonance is
COMPUTER: Universal
LAFORGE: I knew that. Okay, give me another one.
COMPUTER: List the field patterns associated with warp modulation in order of decreasing energy.
LAFORGE: Oh, there's the aft nacelle associative, the forward Whoa! Computer, sequence zero one zero. Maximum power to the shields. Kill the music. Enterprise, this is shuttle seven. I've encountered a Romulan Warbird. Coordinates at three
COMPUTER: Warning. Shield failure.
LAFORGE: Damn. Risa Control. Anybody.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44891.6. The Enterprise has been ordered to accompany a special emissary from the Klingon High Council to the Kriosian System, where one of their colonies is fighting for independence.

[Ready room]
KELL: There was a time when the Empire would crush a rebellion. Now it is tolerated. We have enough problems on the home planet. We don't wish to divert resources to such a trivial war.
PICARD: You're prepared to grant them independence?
KELL: Perhaps. We'll conquer them again later, if we wish.
PICARD: May I ask, Ambassador, what has this to do with us?
KELL: The Governor of Krios has charged that the Federation is secretly aiding the rebels.
RIKER: Does he have evidence?
KELL: The Council has sent me here to examine that evidence. It was my decision to invite you to accompany me, Captain. Many on the Council have great respect for you.
PICARD: K'adlo. I have been pleased to offer occasional assistance to the Klingon people in the past.
KELL: Your modesty is very human, Captain. I will excuse it.
PICARD: I can assure you, Ambassador, the Federation would never interfere in the internal affairs of the Empire.
KELL: Let us hope not. Such interference would strike at the very basis of our alliance.
RIKER: Captain, we are in the war zone.
PICARD: Indeed. Ambassador, I will ask our Chief Security officer, Lieutenant Worf, to make a report
KELL: Captain, Worf's discommendation makes that very awkward. If I could work with one of the other security officers
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf is my Chief of Security and my tactical officer. This matter clearly falls within his jurisdiction.
KELL: As you wish.

[Romulan ship]
LAFORGE: Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey, take it easy! Hey.
TAIBAK: Welcome, Mister La Forge. We've waited a long time to meet you.
LAFORGE: I can tell you've gone to a lot of trouble.
TAIBAK: Indeed we have. You are going to be of great help to us.
LAFORGE: I wouldn't count on it.
TAIBAK: Good. Very good. Do not enjoy yourself too much on Risa.
LAFORGE: Hey!
TAIBAK: Your visor will be returned to you, but first I want to show you something.
LAFORGE: Show me something? That'll be an interesting trick seeing as how I can't see anything without the visor.
TAIBAK: That is not quite true. Allow me to demonstrate. I now have direct access to his visual cortex. He has no choice but to see what I wish him to see. I can feed him any image I choose. He will be unable to ignore it. His galvanic skin response has increased nine percent. It seems Commander La Forge, like many humans, has a low tolerance for watching others suffer.
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this?
TAIBAK: I am sorry, Commander. It is a necessary step. I apologize for your discomfort.
TAIBAK: Here. Observe how a spring day on his native Earth affects him. He's looking at a beautiful meadow, green trees, birds, a blue sky. The heartbeat slows, the galvanic skin response drops. The body responds to our stimuli. He is incapable of maintaining control of his own responses. Watch as I change the stimuli again. Once our work is done, La Forge will act normally, totally unaware of his conditioning. The perfect tool for our purpose.
WOMAN: Will there be any physical evidence of what you are doing to him?
TAIBAK: None, Commander. That is why we chose La Forge. The utilization of his pre-existing neural implants makes our work impossible to detect.
WOMAN: How will we be certain the procedure has been successful?
TAIBAK: I will program him to perform a series of specific tests, both before he leaves us and after he returns to the Enterprise. We'll be able to verify his effectiveness. Notice that his heart rate has slowed somewhat. He is becoming accustomed to the horrors he is witnessing. So, we change horrors.

[Tactical area]
KELL: There have been two rebel attacks on neutral freighters. One a Ferengi, the other Cardassian.
WORF: Both were engaged near the Ikalian asteroid belt. That's where the rebels must be hiding.
KELL: The actinides in the asteroids provide positive protection against our sensors.
WORF: They might attack a freighter, but I doubt they would challenge a Federation starship.
KELL: Especially with the Federation furnishing them support.
WORF: You would test the Captain's word with me, Kell? Is it because I have no honor in your eyes that you expect me to be disloyal?
KELL: Wrong of me to ask. My apologies.
WORF: Captain Picard does not lie. If he says there is no Federation assistance to the rebels, there is none.
KELL: Good. Because I risked my own reputation and honor coming to Picard.
WORF: He will not disappoint you. If that is all.
KELL: There are some members of the High Council who would thank you, Worf.
WORF: Thank me?
KELL: For killing Duras. No doubt that had he lived, one day he would ascended to head the Council. Many were not looking forward to that.
WORF: My motives were personal, not political.
KELL: Motives? Who cares for motives? Humans perhaps. What matters is you acted that day as a true Klingon.

[Ten Forward]
TAIBAK: Where are we, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: This is Ten Forward.
TAIBAK: Who is that man sitting over there?
LAFORGE: That's Chief O'Brien.
TAIBAK: How long has he served with you?
LAFORGE: Almost four years.
TAIBAK: I want you to kill him.
LAFORGE: Okay.
TAIBAK: Take this phaser and kill Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Finally I think I've found it. You see, this piece of conduit carrying the power to transporter seven, and I know that can't be right, so I take a closer look and sure enough
TAIBAK: Freeze simulations. Commander, did you understand my request?
LAFORGE: Well, I, it's just I, I don't
TAIBAK: Look at me. Now, what did I ask you to do?
LAFORGE: Kill Chief O'Brien.
TAIBAK: Then do as I asked. Resume program.
LAFORGE: Chief.
O'BRIEN: I have to
TAIBAK: Good, Mister La Forge. Very good. Why don't you enjoy a drink with your friends?
LAFORGE: Mind if I join you, guys?
CREWMAN: Sure.
TAIBAK: He still hesitated. Prepare the equipment for another session.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44896.9. We are orbiting Krios, awaiting our first meeting with the Klingon Governor. Commander La Forge has rejoined the Enterprise from Risa.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Welcome back, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Data!
DATA: How was the seminar?
LAFORGE: Very informative. I'll tell you all about it.

[Corridor]
DATA: It is fortunate we were able to coordinate your return on the Teldarian cruiser.
LAFORGE: Yeah, when I heard the Enterprise had been ordered to the Krios system, I thought I might be forced to endure another couple of weeks on Risa.
DATA: I am sorry to hear you did not enjoy yourself.
LAFORGE: I was joking.
DATA: Joking? Ah. Forced to endure Risa. Your actual intent was to emphasize that you did enjoy yourself. Yes, I see how that could be considered quite amusing.
LAFORGE: I missed you, Data.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Permission to come aboard, sir.
PICARD: Granted. Welcome back.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Commander La Forge is my Chief Engineer.
KELL: Commander.
PICARD: He's has been attending a seminar on artificial intelligence on Risa.
RIKER: I'm glad we got you back, Geordi. We're going to need your help on this.
LAFORGE: Data tells me that the Federation has been accused of aiding Kriosian rebels.
PICARD: We're to be presented with evidence today. We'll need your help in analyzing it.
LAFORGE: Anything I can do.
TROI: You had a good time.
LAFORGE: Does it show?
TROI: You're more relaxd than I've ever seen you.
WORF: Captain, Governor Vagh has signaled he is ready to meet with you.
PICARD: Very well. Advise him that we will transport sown to the surface immediately. Ambassador.
DATA: Commander Riker.
RIKER: What is it, Data?
DATA: Our sensors have detected a brief energy fluctuation in the E-band.
RIKER: E-band? That's unusual. What's the source?
DATA: Unknown, sir. E-band emissions are difficult to localize.
RIKER: Collapsing protostars sometimes emit E-band bursts.
DATA: Yes, sir. However, there are no protostars in this sector.
RIKER: You'd better run a complete scan. Keep me posted.
DATA: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: The Carnelians have actually done the most work on artificial intelligence, so I spent a lot of time in their research seminars.
TROI: Geordi, I get the feeling that something special happened on this vacation, and I'm not talking about computers.
LAFORGE: Well, I did take second place in a chess tournament.
TROI: Yes.
LAFORGE: And I swam a lot. I worked on my back stroke. The water is very calm on Risa.
TROI: And?
LAFORGE: And I walked a lot. That's all. Well, I ate enough for twelve people. The food there is terrific. They've got a chocolate there, Counselor, you would love.
TROI: And that's all?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Well, there was this
TROI: Yes?
LAFORGE: Her name is Jonek. But you wouldn't want to hear about that. Better get ready for duty. Nice talking to you, Counselor.

[Governor's office]
VAGH: We talk, we socialize, we waste time and the insurrection continues to grow. These rebels need to be crushed not coddled.
KELL: Governor, it does not matter what you or I think. The High Council's made its wishes clear.
VAGH: The Council should be more interested in Federation interference.
PICARD: Governor, exactly what do you think the Federation has done?
VAGH: Your medical supplies have been found in rebel strongholds.
RIKER: We make no effort to restrict access to our medical supplies.
VAGH: Are your weapons also freely available?
PICARD: No, they are not.
VAGH: Then explain this.
PICARD: You took this weapon from the rebels?
VAGH: That and many more like it.
RIKER: It does appear to be Federation issue.
PICARD: Governor, with your permission, I would like to take this weapon back to the Enterprise to verify its origin.
VAGH: As you wish. I have hundreds more.
PICARD: Even if these weapons are genuine, I can assure you that a third party must have been involved. The Federation is not in the business of supplying arms to rebels.
VAGH: This is the only Klingon colony on the border of Federation space. You cannot deny that Starfleet would be happy to see Krios gain its independence. It would reduce your vulnerability to an attack.
PICARD: Governor, you speak as if we are enemies, not allies.
VAGH: And you speak the lies of a taar'chek.
PICARD: Qu'vath guy'cha b'aka.
KELL: Gentlemen.
VAGH: You swear well, Picard. You must have Klingon blood in your veins.
KELL: Governor, I will report to you as soon as the analysis of that weapon is complete. Captain, Commander.
PICARD: Enterprise, three to transport.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Intercooler flux down to five percent. Plasma deviation steady at point seven two.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Well, if you guys keep running at this efficiency, I might as well go back to Risa for another week. Just run through a level four series, and then call it a night, huh? I'd help you, but there's something I've got to take care of.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Red Torian, please. Thank you.
LAFORGE: Oh! I'm sorry.
O'BRIEN: It's all right.
LAFORGE: My glass, it just slipped.
O'BRIEN: It's nothing, just a little cold.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you're all soaked here.
O'BRIEN: It's nothing serious.
LAFORGE: Let me get you something to wipe that off with.
O'BRIEN: I'll just go to my quarters and change.
LAFORGE: You sure?
O'BRIEN: Don't think twice about it, Commander.

[Engineering]
DATA: Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire chamber to the emission aperture.
LAFORGE: Rapid nadion pulse, right on target. Beam control assembly, safety interlock, both checked out. Beam width intensity controls also responding correctly.
DATA: Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five megajoules per second. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge crystal is well above Starfleet specifications.
LAFORGE: Yeah, by quite a bit. Ninety four point one percent efficiency.
DATA: Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty six point five percent efficiency.
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look at the wave pattern on the emission beam. That might tell us why it's losing so little energy.
DATA: Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady.
LAFORGE: There. That's not right. The initial output spike is inverted.
DATA: That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced pulse, well into the terahertz range.
LAFORGE: Then it's definitely not Starfleet issue and there can't be that many systems that use the terahertz feeds.
DATA: Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably achieve an exact match with a random computer search. It will take approximately three hours.
LAFORGE: I think we could narrow this down with a little common sense, Data. Who has the most to gain from a conflict between the Klingon Empire and the Federation?

[Governor's office]
LAFORGE: The Romulans. They fashioned a perfect Federation rifle but they had to charge it from their energy sources. So the discharge crystal and the emission beam pattern correspond to those you'd find in a Romulan disrupter.
VAGH: The Romulans have no interest in Kriosian independence. The planet is too far from their borders.
PICARD: But they do have an interest in driving the Federation and the Empire apart. Our alliance is the only thing that has kept them in check.
VAGH: Romulan replications using stolen Federation technology?
KELL: It's a typical Romulan ploy. An attempt to sow dissension and mistrust. Commander, you've done well. I would thank you on behalf of the Empire.
VAGH: I still have my doubts, Picard. I will want my own technicians to confirm your findings.
PICARD: Of course. My staff will give you their full cooperation.
VAGH: You may go.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Another E-band blip?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that this one did not originate from the same location as the first.
RIKER: If it's changed intensity, it can't possibly be a protostar.
DATA: That is a reasonable assumption.
RIKER: Is there any known instance of Romulans using E-band communications?
DATA: Not to my knowledge, sir.
RIKER: Can you track the source?
DATA: We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their focus to scan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a directional vector. But only if there are more occurrences.
RIKER: Do it.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Computer re-route the power flow in the cargo bay four transporter to the auxiliary replicator system.
COMPUTER: Please verify command with necessary protocol.
LAFORGE: Initiate protocol three six four dash B.
COMPUTER: Verify priority clearance.
LAFORGE: Recognize La Forge, theta two nine nine seven.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Power has been re-routed through auxiliary power distribution system code number four four seven six two.
LAFORGE: Now, redirect transporter mode to the planetary sensor array.
COMPUTER: Transporter mode has been redirected.
LAFORGE: Verify that all record of these modifications are being erased from each directory.
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Erasure process is proceeding.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed by Governor Vagh.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf. Governor.
VAGH (screen): You astonish me, Picard. Did you seriously believe you would succeed? Do you think we are blind?
PICARD: I don't understand.
VAGH (screen): We intercepted the weapons you tried to transport to the surface.
PICARD: Governor, I assure you
VAGH (screen): Do not insult us both by denying it. Maintain your position until further notice. Do not attempt to leave orbit.
WORF: Klingon attack cruiser uncloaking, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Two birds of prey approaching.
DATA: Sensors confirm an unauthorized transporter beam at eleven twenty three hours.
PICARD: Do you know which transporter was used?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Captain. Whoever did it apparently used the planetary array to bypass the transport sensors.
RIKER: What about the transporter logs?
LAFORGE: They're blank.
RIKER: How many people on board are capable of doing this, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I'm not even sure how it was done yet. As soon as I find out, maybe I can give you an answer. Not many, that's for sure.
KELL: Vagh is fully prepared to fire upon the Enterprise. I have convinced him it would not be wise to take any action without first consulting the High Council.
RIKER: How long do we have?
KELL: A few hours at most.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your recommendations?
LAFORGE: It might be possible to locate the point of origin by tracing power flows at the time of transport.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Engineering]
DATA: The primary plasma system does not indicate a power drain from any of the transporters.
LAFORGE: Then whoever used the transporter must have bypassed the primary feeds.
DATA: Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of the transporters indicated.
LAFORGE: Damn, who could have pulled this off? Try the life-support power flows.
DATA: No abnormal surges indicated.
LAFORGE: Replicator waveguides? There. That's not a replicator energy pattern. Trace it.
DATA: Cargo bay four.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Worf. Security to cargo bay four.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: I've run a level one diagnostic. As far as I can tell, the unit hasn't been tampered with.
LAFORGE: This has to be the transfer point.
DATA: Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase any record.
O'BRIEN: You're talking about thirty or forty chips in half a dozen different control systems.
WORF: Which members of the crew could have accomplished that?
LAFORGE: I think I could have done it, if I put my mind to it. The Chief, Data, Lieutenant Costa, that's about it.
WORF: Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at eleven twenty three hours.
O'BRIEN: I was with Keiko, in the Arboretum.
DATA: I was on the Bridge at my station.
LAFORGE: I was in my quarters.
WORF: Was anyone with you?
LAFORGE: No, I was alone. Costa was on duty in Engineering. I'm sure he's got twenty witnesses.
WORF: Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to be.
LAFORGE: Data, let's do a detailed scan on every chip in this assembly. There's got to be some kind of trail we can follow.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The isolinear chips were definitely altered?
LAFORGE: Programmed to erase all operator commands once the transfer was complete.
KELL: But with the chips erased, what evidence remained?
DATA: The erasures were complete. However, an analysis of the subatomic structure revealed an almost undetectable residual pattern. In time, we may be able to reconstruct the perpetrator's authorisation code.
KELL: Do you have any idea who's responsible?
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everyone with the necessary skills also has an alibi, except for me, that is. I was alone in my quarters at the time.
KELL: Then whoever did this must have been specially trained for the task.
PICARD: Our forensic team is trying to identify anyone who might have been in cargo bay four today.
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy. There were a lot of people in and out of there.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Data.
DATA: Yes, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Sensors have picked up another E-band emission.
DATA: Acknowledged, I will be there shortly.
KELL: E-band emission?
DATA: We have been picking up a curious intermittent blip. Commander Riker has speculated that it may be a Romulan transmission. I am attempting to track its source.
PICARD: Proceed. Thank you, Mister La Forge.
KELL: We do not have much time, Picard. Vagh is not known for his patience.
PICARD: Assure him that we are doing everything possible. And, advise him that if necessary I will defend my ship.
KELL: With your permission, I will transport down to the planet.
PICARD: Of course.
KELL: May I suggest that you issue an invitation to Vagh, to personally witness your continuing investigation.
PICARD: Do you think he will come?
KELL: I will do everything in my power to see that he does. Qapla', Picard.
PICARD: Qapla', Ambassador.

[Kell's quarters]
KELL: Come in, Mister La Forge.
KELL: The investigation is moving faster than we expected. You are in danger of being exposed. I will transport to the surface. When I return, I'll have Governor Vagh with me. Your Captain and I will bring him to the cargo bay. I want you to kill him there, in front of many witnesses. Use a hand phaser. When he is dead, you will claim that you acted on behalf of Starfleet, in support of Kriosian independence.
LAFORGE: I understand.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: La Forge to O'Brien. O'Brien?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander, what can I do for you?
LAFORGE: Nothing. Chief, I'm sorry to disturb you. I'm sorry.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Hiya, Doc.
CRUSHER: Geordi, hi. What can I do for you?
LAFORGE: Well, I just can't seem to get any sleep. I was hoping you could give me something.
CRUSHER: Sit down. Let's take a look. You couldn't sleep at all?
LAFORGE: I was restless. I kept waking up.
CRUSHER: Would you take off your visor, please?
LAFORGE: Sure.
CRUSHER: Is there something on your mind?
LAFORGE: No, I don't think so.
CRUSHER: Well, everybody goes through these occasional bouts of insomnia. There's probably nothing to worry about. Let's just make sure there's nothing physically wrong. There's a minor vascular irregularity in the visual cortex. A slight dilation of the blood vessels. It's nothing serious. What about your visor? Has it been giving you any problems lately?
LAFORGE: Nothing out of the ordinary.
CRUSHER: All the same, it might be a good idea to have it examined when we get to Starbase thirty six next month.
LAFORGE: Okay.
CRUSHER: In the meantime, I will get you a somnetic inducer to put by your bed. It'll help you to sleep.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Doc. I'm sure I'll be fine.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD: Governor Vagh, thank you for coming.
VAGH: You can thank Ambassador Kell. I am here against my better judgment.
KELL: Captain, I think the first thing the Governor should see is the investigation underway in the cargo bay.
PICARD: Of course.

[Bridge]
RIKER: From inside the Enterprise? You're sure?
DATA: The first and third E-band blips were clearly generated on board the ship. The second came from the planet surface.
RIKER: Generated by what?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
RIKER: Mister Data, we have a known spy on board and now we have unexplained signals on board. I think it's reasonable to assume that they're related somehow, wouldn't you?
DATA: One could speculate that the E-band is being used for some form of covert communication.
RIKER: We need more than speculation, Mister Data. We need to know who, what, where, when and why, or we may be going to war.
DATA: Yes, sir. Computer, run an analysis of all known Romulan transmission formats, all bands, Identify any commonalities with displayed waveform.
COMPUTER: No commonalities noted.
DATA: Does this waveform match that of any known communication format?
COMPUTER: Negative.
DATA: Broaden search pattern beyond communications. Does the waveform displayed conform to any natural phenomena, cryptographic formats or lifeform EM emissions?
COMPUTER: The signal corresponds to a delta compressed wavelength spectrum similar to human neural frequencies.
DATA: As in a human brainwave pattern?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
DATA: What kind of receiver would be capable of processing these signals?
COMPUTER: A system designed to modify the electromagnetic spectrum and carry those messages directly to the human brain.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Computer, link with the shuttle's onboard system. Access the isolinear storage assembly. Scan all chips which contain mission logs. Note any discrepancies.
COMPUTER: No discrepancies noted.
DATA: Perform a level 5 diagnostic on the shuttle's power and navigational systems.
COMPUTER: The components specified are all within normal tolerances.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: My technicians have examined all of the ship's transporters, sir. I can assure you, this is the only unit that has been tampered with.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Computer, scan the shuttle's structural integrity.
COMPUTER: Sub-microscopic deformations are present in the nose section and aft thrusters.
DATA: Probable cause of these variations?
COMPUTER: The shuttle has been subjected to stress consistent with a tractor beam.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: All our transporter containers have a slight impurity in the structural alloys which allows us to trace our material.
O'BRIEN: Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: What can I do for you, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Could you take a look at the pattern buffers? Considering what's happened, I'm not sure the control systems are reliable.
LAFORGE: Sure. Sure, let's take a look.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Computer, I am reading anomalous variations in the molecular structure of these memory chips. Please confirm.
COMPUTER: Analysis confirmed.
DATA: Probable cause?
COMPUTER: Replication.
DATA: Compare these variations with established Romulan replication patterns.
COMPUTER: The patterns are identical.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Maybe we should run a level one diagnostic on those phase transition coils.
O'BRIEN: Right, Commander.
DATA (voiceover): Data to La Forge.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Report, please. Geordi.

[Cargo bay]
DATA (voiceover): Please respond.

[Corridor]
DATA: Computer, current location of Commander La Forge?
COMPUTER: Cargo bay four.
DATA: Data to Lieutenant Worf.

[Cargo bay]
DATA (voiceover): Priority One.
WORF: Go ahead.

[Corridor]
DATA: Take Commander La Forge into custody immediately.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Sir?

[Corridor]
DATA: That is an order.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: DNA samples by tracing biochemical signatures, we'll be able to determine who has been in this bay recently.
VAGH: But how will it be possible to prove which one was responsible?
VAGH: Q'ac ken ta'vak!
WORF: La Forge!
PICARD: Mister Worf, get him out of here.
VAGH: Arming our enemies is not enough. Now the Federation would murder me to achieve its aims.
PICARD: Governor, if I could explain this I would.
DATA: I believe I can help, Captain. I have been able to determine that Commander La Forge was abducted by Romulans en route to Risa. It is likely that he was somehow forced to take part in the plot to assassinate Governor Vagh.
KELL: I saw no evidence of Romulans. We just witnessed him acting very much alone.
DATA: No, sir, you did not. I do not believe the Commander is acting of his own accord. He has been receiving E-band signals through his visor. Signals which are carrying direct commands to his brain. I have surmised that Commander La Forge was conditioned by Romulans, a process referred to historically, and somewhat inaccurately, as brainwashing.
VAGH: But to what end? Why would the Romulans want to kill me?
PICARD: The Romulans have always wanted to destroy the alliance between the Federation and the Klingons. If Mister La Forge had killed you, Governor, I think you would agree, they might have succeeded.
KELL: Who sent these signals? A cloaked Romulan ship?
DATA: No, sir. That is not possible. The signals had to be transmitted within close proximity to the visor.
PICARD: Are you suggesting there was a Romulan accomplice in close proximity to La Forge when he was receiving the signals?
DATA: Yes, sir, I am.
VAGH: This Romulan accomplice, who is he?
DATA: I have narrowed the list of possibilities to two people. The only two people who were with Commander La Forge all three times a transmission was recorded. Captain Picard and Ambassador Kell. One of them may be concealing an E-band transmitter. If they would agree to be searched
KELL: I am a Klingon. An emissary of the High Council. I will not be submit to being searched by you or anyone else on this ship.
VAGH: I am forced to agree, Captain. We will take the Ambassador with us and search him ourselves.
KELL: Captain, I believe it to be in all best interests if I remain on board. I formally request asylum.
PICARD: I will certainly grant you asylum, when you have been absolved of this crime.
VAGH: Gurt'ank te'la.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: But I remember everything! Like, there was this one night at dinner, we had this Andorian waiter, he couldn't get our orders right. It did happen. I remember being on Risa.
TROI: I know you do. Just take that memory and put it aside for a moment, and tell me everything you remember about the shuttlecraft trip after you left the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Well, I was just trying to get in the mood. I played some music, I talked to the computer. You know what it's like on a long trip.
TROI: And when you saw the Romulan ship, did you try calling for help?
LAFORGE: No, the first thing I did. Wait a minute, that's. But that's
TROI: It'll take time, Geordi. A long time. But we will reconstruct your memory. Together.
LAFORGE: I'm just not sure about anything.
TROI: Believe it or not, that's a good sign. A beginning. Now, let's go back to the shuttlecraft. There was a Romulan ship and the first thing you did was?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44932.3 The Enterprise is preparing to enter the Mar Oscura, an unexplored dark matter nebula. Commander Data is modifying several new photon torpedoes for an experiment designed to elicit more information about this unusual phenomenon.

[Torpedo bay]
DATA: The initial dispersal pattern should not be more than seven kilometers in diameter. Jenna?
JENNA: Oh, er, six point eight kilometers.
DATA: That should suffice. Is there something occupying your thoughts, Jenna? You seem somewhat subdued today.
JENNA: I bumped into Jeff again in the turbolift this morning. He asked me to dinner.
DATA: What was your response?
JENNA: I told him I'd think about it.
DATA: As you requested, I will now remind you of the reasons you decided to end your relationship with Jeff.
JENNA: I guess I asked for this. Go ahead.
DATA: You objected to the fact that he seemed unwilling to set aside sufficient time for you. You said he was unresponsive, that he never did the little things. You disliked the sound he made when he ate his soup.
JENNA: Okay, okay. I remember.
DATA: This is the third time I have refreshed your memory. Do you wish to rescind our agreement?
JENNA: No. No, it's for my own good. It's just so easy to forget. Hand me the sequencer.
DATA: Throughout history, many lovers have suffered the same difficulty. Anne Boleyn was quite distressed that Henry the Eighth preferred the company of his huntsmen over that of his wife.
JENNA: Since when did you develop an interest in romantic historical figures?
DATA: Six weeks ago, when you and Jeff dissolved your relationship, I saw an excellent opportunity to study that aspect of human intimacy. As your friend, it is my responsibility to be supportive in times of need.
JENNA: That's very sweet, Data.
DATA: Data to Bridge. We are ready

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): To begin the first illumination test.
RIKER: Acknowledged. All science stations, stand by. We're about to light up the nebula. Mister Worf?
WORF: Launch bay one shows ready, Commander.
RIKER: Fire torpedo.

[Torpedo bay]
JENNA: It's beautiful. Like watching fireworks when I was a little girl.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: That was wonderful.
KEIKO: Thank you.
MILES: Really wonderful.
DATA: Is anything wrong?
JENNA: My tempo was way off. I felt like I was rushing through the whole piece.
DATA: I do not believe that is so. Your rhythmic control has improved markedly. I heard no fluctuations during the performance.
JENNA: Well, maybe, but I ruined the coda. I got confused with the phrasing again. I kept breathing at the wrong times.
DATA: The contrapuntal nature of the composition is most demanding. We will give more attention to the rhythmic patterns at our next rehearsal. However, I am quite certain the audience was oblivious to such nuances. They seemed to enjoy the performance thoroughly.
JENNA: Thank you, Data. You're very generous.
KEIKO: Every night, Miles leaves his socks on the floor. When we got married, I made the mistake of picking them up a few times. Then I realized, if I kept it up I'd be doing it the rest of my life. So I stopped, figuring he'd get the point and do it himself. One night goes by, two, a week, ten days. By now there's a pile of socks half a meter high.
O'BRIEN: Come on, it wasn't half a meter.
KEIKO: After two weeks I couldn't stand it any more. I bundled them up and put them in the cleaning processor. And I'm still doing it.
O'BRIEN: And a very good job she does of it, too.
JENNA: Keiko, you sound just like Data. He came over to my quarters the other day to give me a music lesson, and he said the funniest thing. How did you put it, about the mess?
DATA: I believe I observed that you seem to have an aversion to orderliness. But it was not intended as a humorous remark.
JENNA: So, before we started, he gallantly offered to help me straighten up.
DATA: And a very good job of it I did of it, too.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: I am nearly finished compiling readings from our most recent illuminatory burst. Dark matter density is nearly one order of magnitude higher than in similar nebulae. Life forms here may have developed in ways never before observed.
RIKER: Interesting hypothesis. Are there any M-class planets we could check out?
DATA: Several, sir. The nearest is approximately three light hours from our present position.
PICARD: It's worth a look. We'll continue our survey along the way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Let's increase the flow rate and see if that helps.

[Torpedo bay]
JENNA: Sometimes in the summer we'd go on cookouts. Just my little brother and me, and mother. She was hopeless without a replicator. We didn't care.
DATA: Children often do not develop discerning palettes until well beyond adolescence.
JENNA: It's wasn't that. It's just that we felt so good being together, you know, as a family. We didn't have much of that after my father died. so those times were really special. I wish we were back there now, you and I.
DATA: The unidirectional nature of the time continuum makes that an unlikely possibility.
JENNA: That what I love about you, Data. You make me laugh. I don't know why I keep falling for the wrong man. Why can't I fall for somebody like you. You're perfect.
DATA: That is not true. I have no human feelings.
JENNA: But you give me so much. You spend time with me when I was lonely, you encouraged me when I'm down. No man has ever been kinder to me. Those are the things that matter. I'd better be going. With your permission, Commander.
DATA: Permission granted.
JENNA: I don't know if you're aware of this, but you're very handsome.
JENNA: I'll see you tomorrow.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Hello, Data. Would you like to try something new? It's a concoction I heard about on Prakal Two. I think it's wonderful but I need a second opinion.
DATA: Eighty seven percent Saurian Brandy. Targ milk and Danisian mead comprise the rest. There is an unusually high concentration of fructose compounds and monosaccharides.
GUINAN: Too sweet? Data, if I didn't know you better, I would say you were a little preoccupied.
DATA: Lieutenant D'Sora just gave me what could be considered a very passionate kiss in the torpedo bay.
GUINAN: Really? And?
DATA: I was intrigued. Jenna seemed to be displaying genuine affection for me.
GUINAN: Well, what do you think of her, Data?
DATA: I find her to be a competent officer. Highly motivated, though somewhat lacking in her understanding of the theory underlying the dilithium matrix application.
GUINAN: I meant personally?
DATA: I look forward to the time we spend together.
GUINAN: Well, then it seems the next move is yours. What are you going to do?
DATA: I do not know. I have no experience in such matters. I require advice.
GUINAN: Don't look at me. No, no, Data, I simply mean that I can't give you any advice here. It's not good to advise people about their first love affairs. That's kind of something they have to figure out for themselves.
DATA: But I am not capable of love.
GUINAN: Then it's going to be a very unique experience.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Data. Missing someone? I found Spot wandering through the corridor two sections away.
DATA: Thank you.
LAFORGE: Forget to secure the door when you left?
DATA: The door sensor is programmed to recognize only humanoid forms for entry and egress. Spot could not have triggered the mechanism.

[Data's quarters]
LAFORGE: Maybe someone came in while you were away, let him out by accident. Has anything been disturbed?
DATA: It does not appear so. Computer, has anyone been in my quarters in the last twelve hours other than Commander La Forge and myself?
COMPUTER: Negative.
LAFORGE: That's really strange. You know, to be on the safe side maybe I should report a possible unauthorized entry to Security.
DATA: Geordi, may I ask your advice in a personal matter?
LAFORGE: Sure, Data.
DATA: Should I pursue a relationship with Lieutenant D'Sora?
LAFORGE: I thought she and Jeff Arton
DATA: They have discontinued their association. She has made the first move in initiating a relationship with me. What should I do?
LAFORGE: She's just coming out of a bad situation. You know, sometimes it takes people a while, Data, but then, if they jump right into another relationship, you see, that can be trouble, unless, of course, she's really ready, and then I guess it depends on whether or not you're really serious. This can be a little complicated. Listen, my advice is ask somebody else for advice. At least someone who's got more experience at giving advice.

[Troi's office]
TROI: I think you should be careful. This isn't just some experiment you're running, Data. Jenna is a living, breathing person with needs and feelings that have to be considered.
DATA: Then you do not believe I should pursue this any further.
TROI: I didn't say that. I just want you to be aware that this is unlike any other more casual relationship that you've attempted.
DATA: I have studied much human literature on the subject of love and romantic liaisons. There are many role models for me to emulate.
TROI: Ultimately, Jenna will care for you for what you are, not what you imitate out of a book.
DATA: My programming may be inadequate to the task.
TROI: We're all more than the sum of our parts, Data. You'll have to be more than the sum of your programming.

[Bridge]
WORF: Klingons do not pursue relationships. They conquer that which they desire. However, Lieutenant D'Sora serves under my command. If she were mistreated, I would be very displeased, sir.
DATA: I understand.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I think you should pursue it. First of all, she's a beautiful woman. She seems to be crazy about you.
DATA: Jenna has clearly demonstrated how she feels about me, but I am not capable of returning those feelings.
RIKER: Data, when you get involved with another person, there are always risks of disappointment, of getting hurt.
DATA: I cannot be hurt. But she can.
RIKER: Jenna knows that and she has obviously decided to take the chance. Data, when it really works between two people, it's not like anything you've ever experienced. The rewards are far beyond simple friendship.
DATA: How far, sir?
RIKER: That's what I'm hoping you're going to find out.
DATA: Thank you, Commander.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I am seeking advice in how
PICARD: Yes, I've heard, Data, and I would be delighted to offer any advice I can on understanding women. When as I have some, I'll let you know. Second Officer's personal log, stardate 44935.6. After conferring with my colleagues regarding the nature of romantic love in general, and my own situation in particular, I have reached a decision.

[Jenna's quarters]
JENNA: They're lovely. Come in. What are they?
DATA: A variety of crystilia. Their fragrance is an evolutionary response to the acrid nature of the atmosphere on Telemarius Four.
JENNA: You silver-tongued devil. Why don't I find a place to put these. Which won't be that easy. Ah.
DATA: It seems your quarters have reverted to their earlier state of disorder.
JENNA: I know. I'm hopeless. There. They're beautiful, Data. It's really sweet of you.
DATA: Commander Riker suggested this particular flower. He said it had worked for him in the past.
JENNA: You didn't talk to the entire ship about us.
DATA: No. In actuality, less than one percent of the Enterprise crew was involved. It was necessary to balance theory with experiential referents. Both are required for a program of this nature. Computer, decrease illumination level by one third standard lux.
JENNA: This is all part of a program?
DATA: Yes. One which I have just created for romantic relationships.
JENNA: So I'm just a small variable in one of your new computational environments?
DATA: You are much more than that, Jenna. I have written a subroutine specifically for you. A program within the program. I have devoted a considerable share of my internal resources to its development.
JENNA: Data, that's the nicest thing anybody's ever said to me.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Estimated time of arrival, Mister Data?
DATA: We will reach the class M planet in approximately eleven hours, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Would you step into my Ready room, please. And bring a tricorder with you.
WORF: Aye, Captain.

[Ready room]
WORF: Captain?
PICARD: What do you make of this?
WORF: I am puzzled, sir.
PICARD: So am I, Mister Worf.
WORF: Captain, the only detectable bioelectric residuals are your own. You did not
PICARD: No. I did not. Perhaps we have a poltergeist.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: A mischievous spirit.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Perhaps not.
WORF: I cannot explain how an intruder entered this room, but I recommend we go to Red Alert.
PICARD: Not yet.
WORF: Then I will order one of my officers to stand watch. Worf to Ensign
PICARD: That's alright, Mister Worf. I think, for now, circumstances warrant caution, nothing more.
WORF: As you wish, Captain.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
JENNA: I know it's a little unexpected.
DATA: You are correct. I did not anticipate your arrival until nineteen hundred hours.
JENNA: I couldn't wait. I wanted you to have this.
DATA: You have often expressed dissatisfaction with the spartan nature of my quarters. Is this an attempt at embellishment?
JENNA: The cat's out of the bag.
DATA: Spot?
JENNA: No, I mean you've caught me in the act. I'm just trying to brighten things up around here. It's Tyrinean. What do you think?
DATA: Its line is both fluid and formal, yet retains an unpremeditated quality. The tactility of its surface embellishment is evocative of the neo-primitive period in Tyrinean blade carving.
JENNA: I hadn't thought of it that way. I'm sorry. Don't let me interrupt.
DATA: As you wish.
JENNA: Data?
DATA: Yes?
JENNA: The Book of Love, chapter four, paragraph seventeen: When your girlfriend arrives with a gift, stop whatever it is you're doing, and give her your undivided attention.
DATA: I should not have resumed my painting?
JENNA: No.
DATA: Despite your suggestion that I continue?
JENNA: Exactly.
DATA: I have much to learn.
JENNA: Why don't we start with this. A critical analysis isn't necessarily the best response to a gift.
DATA: Perhaps if I looked for a suitable place to display it?
JENNA: Much better.
DATA: The ambient light in this location accentuates its contours. However, a gift should not necessarily be placed according to esthetic criteria. A more central location will carry added meaning.
JENNA: Data, what's important is that you're trying. You don't know how much that means to me. Why don't you go back to your painting? Oh, I really mean it this time. I'll see you tonight.

[Ready room]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard. I think you'd better come out here, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've reached the designated coordinates, but the M-class planet, it's gone.
PICARD: Are you sure there was no malfunction in the sensors?
DATA: The lateral EM scanners register radiation levels indicative of a class-M planet. Sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, run a full systems diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Warning. Atmospheric decompression in Bridge Observation Lounge. Environmental compensation sequence has been initiated.
WORF: I am not registering a hull breach.
PICARD: Scan for lifeforms.
WORF: None, sir.
DATA: Captain. Standard air pressure has been reestablished in the Observation lounge.
PICARD: Let's have a look. Mister Data?

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Captain.
WORF: I do not understand.
RIKER: Are you picking anything up, Data?
DATA: I detect no unusual readings along standard parameters. Curious. The transparent aluminum alloy of this window is exhibiting a pattern of transient electrical currents.
PICARD: Explanation?
DATA: I have none. The rate is characteristic of a subspace distortion, but I am picking up no evidence of a subspace field.
PICARD: We'll hold position while we seek an explanation for these anomalies. Let's divert all our resources to that end.

[Jenna's quarters]
DATA: Honey? I'm home.
JENNA: Hi.
DATA: Hi.
JENNA: Any luck with your diagnostic?
DATA: Negative. We found no malfunctions.
JENNA: We did a full security sweep. Nothing.
DATA: May I get you a drink, dear?
JENNA: Well, yes. I'll have a Calaman Sherry.
DATA: Excellent choice. I'll join you. Computer, two Calaman sherries. Would you care for some dinner as well?
JENNA: I'm too tired to think about what I want. Maybe later.
DATA: Whatever you wish, dear. There we are.
DATA: Darling, you remain as esthetically pleasing as the first day we met. I believe I am the most fortunate sentient in this sector of the galaxy. Now, you relax. Put your feet up and I will take care of everything.
DATA: I could organize your closets for you. I have found that by grouping apparel first by function, and then by color from light to dark, one can more easily find one's desired choice.
JENNA: Data, that's all right. You don't have to do that.
DATA: But I am happy to do it.
JENNA: Please, just put them down.
DATA: What do you wish me to do, dear? Am I not paying enough attention to you?
JENNA: Oh, no, that's not it.
DATA: Perhaps I am not giving you enough compliments? Your hair is looking particularly silky tonight.
JENNA: Data, there's just something strange about the way you're acting.
DATA: Am I not behaving as a solicitous mate?
JENNA: Well, yes, but.
DATA: Tending to your every need?
JENNA: What's wrong with you tonight?
DATA: My most recent self-diagnostic revealed no malfunctions. Perhaps there is something wrong with you.
JENNA: I've never seen you behave so foolishly. Why are you doing this?
DATA: You don't tell me how to behave. You're not my mother.
JENNA: What?
DATA: You are not my mother. That is the appropriate response for your statement that I am behaving foolishly.
JENNA: Data, I think you should just leave.
DATA: You do not wish to continue our lovers quarrel?
JENNA: Is that what this is?
DATA: In my study of interpersonal dynamics, I have found that conflict followed by emotional release often strengthens the connection between two people.
JENNA: But there's something so forced and artificial about the way you're doing it, Data. It's just not the real you.
DATA: With regard to romantic relationships, there is no real me. I am drawing upon various cultural and literary sources to help define my role.
JENNA: Kiss me.
JENNA: What were you just thinking?
DATA: In that particular moment, I was reconfiguring the warp field parameters, analyzing the collected works of Charles Dickens, calculating the maximum pressure I could safely apply to your lips, considering a new food supplement for Spot.
JENNA: I'm glad I was in there somewhere.

[Bridge]
RIKER: A complete sensor scan of the planet and three survey probes turned up no surprises. No signs of life, nothing out of the ordinary.
WORF: Seven more unusual incidents have been reported. No casualties or damage.
DATA: We can only state that a subspace effect seems to exist within this nebula. After I have made further analysis, I may be able to adjust the ship's sensors to locate and identify the anomaly.
RIKER: The ship is at risk as long as we're sitting here. We could continue the investigation outside the nebula.
PICARD: Agreed. Ensign McKnight, plot the most direct course, ahead warp one.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, air.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: Captain.
WORF: Captain! Explosive decompression on deck thirty seven.
RIKER: Bridge to La Forge. Damage report.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're showing damage between decks. We haven't localized it yet.
LAFORGE: Thorne, are you all right?
THORNE: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. A cryogenic control conduit just blew out on us.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I almost lost a man.
PICARD: Ensign, full stop.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: I think we have some structural damage between decks thirty six and thirty seven. I'd better go check it out.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Van Mayter, you take access tube twenty three M and look at the bridge connectors. Thorne, I'll cover the aft section. You go down
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. This series of unexplained events has now resulted in the death of a crewmember, but it appears that Mister Data may have an explanation.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: During the last occurrence, I was able to confirm one of my hypotheses. The unusual preponderance of dark matter in this nebula is causing small gaps in the fabric of normal space. As the Enterprise moves through this nebula, it is colliding with these deformations.
LAFORGE: So every time we hit one, part of the ship momentarily phases out of normal space.
DATA: Or when one of them hits us. My readings suggest that the deformations themselves are in motion.
RIKER: It's a good thing one of these pockets didn't pass through a photon torpedo casing or the matter-antimatter containment pods.
PICARD: The question is, how do we get out? Mister Data, could you reconfigure the sensors to detect these anomalies?
DATA: Yes, sir, but only at extremely close range. Even at minimal speed, it would be almost impossible to maneuver the Enterprise quickly enough to avoid them.
WORF: A shuttlecraft is more maneuverable.
RIKER: He's right. If we could position the shuttlecraft far enough in front of the Enterprise, it could detect the pockets and allow us enough time to maneuver out of the way.
LAFORGE: We could give the shuttle control of our navigational systems. That way, the corresponding maneuvers would be virtually instantaneous.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'll do my pre-flight once I'm on board.
PICARD: Not this time, Will. I want you on the Bridge.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: I'm going to pilot the shuttle.
RIKER: Captain, it's my duty as First Officer to safeguard the lives on this ship, including yours. The Enterprise can't afford to lose you, sir. Certainly not in this situation.
PICARD: I believe our best chance of escaping this situation is for me to pilot the shuttle. It's my ship, Will. I've got to do this.
RIKER: Sir.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Shuttle three to Enterprise. Telemetry link enabled.
DATA (voiceover): Ship's computer is accepting navigational inputs from the shuttle.
PICARD: Forward sensors are online. Ensign McKnight, plot a course for the shortest distance out of the nebula.
MCKNIGHT (voiceover): Plot laid in, sir.

[Bridge]
MCKNIGHT: Outer perimeter at thirty two million kilometers.
PICARD (voiceover): Point one impulse, Number One.
RIKER: Acknowledged, Captain. We're right behind you. Riker to O'Brien, lock on to the Captain's communicator.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): I want to be able to pull him out of there in case we have to.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Changing course new heading two nine nine mark zero two nine.

[Bridge]
DATA: Main coupling is matching navigational inputs, Captain.
MCKNIGHT: New heading confirmed.
PICARD: I missed it by less than a thousand meters, Enterprise. Advise your status.
WORF: Sensors indicate deformation passing five hundred meters off the starboard bow.
RIKER: One down, Captain

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Resuming previous course.
MCKNIGHT (voiceover): Confirmed. Outer perimeter now at thirty point one million kilometers.
PICARD: Changing course. Heading zero seven three, mark two eight eight.
PICARD: New heading. two eight four mark zero one three.
PICARD: Enterprise, I'm losing maneuverability.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Sensors indicate

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Damage to the shuttle's starboard impulse nacelle, Captain.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: I'm re-routing the secondary deuterium supply. Switching to manual control.

[Bridge]
DATA: Transceiver signal is down forty two percent. Navigational inputs are not registering.
RIKER: We've lost our link, Captain.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: You'll have to make course changes manually until we re-establish the connection.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Understood. Mister Data, get us back online. Geordi, try boosting the power to the LU bands. McKnight, increase the distance between the Enterprise and the shuttle. We're going to need some more room to make manual adjustments.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: New heading two nine nine mark one eight.
MCKNIGHT (voiceover): Yes, sir, I've got it. Course corrected.
PICARD: Enterprise, hard starboard!
MCKNIGHT (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Deformation impact on deck fifteen, science section.
RIKER: Damage?
WORF: Reports coming in. Minimal damage.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I am still having difficulty controlling the shuttlecraft.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Your krellide storage cells are losing their charge. Maintaining manual control is going to become increasingly difficult.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Estimated distance to the nebula's perimeter?
DATA (voiceover): Four point seven million kilometers, sir.
PICARD: Is there a way to transfer the microfusion thrusters so I can get a power boost?
DATA (voiceover): Possibly. If you augment the thruster sequencing so that the inertial dampening fields
PICARD: Bearing two seven, make that two eight five, mark two five five!

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the shuttle is out of control.
RIKER: Mister O'Brien do you have the Captain's signal?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I'm having trouble locking on, sir.
DATA: Sir, the shuttle's inertial dampeners have failed. It is breaking up.
RIKER: Let's get him out of there.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Now would be a good time, Mister O'Brien.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Did we get him back?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Aye, sir, we got him.
PICARD (voiceover): I'm a little dizzy, Number One, but none the worse. I'm on my way.
RIKER: Acknowledged, sir.
DATA: Commander, we are nearing the perimeter. One million kilometers away.
RIKER: All right, let's make a run for it.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.
RIKER: We're clear of the nebula, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, plot a course for Starbase two sixty, warp two.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
JENNA: Hi.
DATA: Hi.
JENNA: The place looks great.
DATA: Thank you. It is much less Spartan, is it not?
JENNA: Much less. It looks great, it really does. It looks great.
DATA: Jenna, you are repeating yourself. I have often found this to be indicative of mental distraction. Is that a correct assumption in this instance?
JENNA: I'm afraid it is.
DATA: Then perhaps we should begin our meal. Among humans, a low serum glucose level is often responsible for
JENNA: Data, I think we should talk. Could you sit down? I'm not sure how to begin.
DATA: What is the subject?
JENNA: You and I. Our relationship.
DATA: Yes?
JENNA: Data, sometimes people blindly make the same mistake again and again.
DATA: Are you currently experiencing this phenomenon?
JENNA: I didn't see it until today. I got out of a relationship with an unemotional man, and I got right back into another, with a man who is absolutely incapable of emotion.
DATA: There does appear to be a recurring motif.
JENNA: You were so kind and attentive. I thought that would be enough.
DATA: It is not?
JENNA: No, it's not. Because as close as we are, I don't really matter to you. Not really. Nothing I can say or do will ever make you happy or sad, or touch you in any way.
DATA: That is a valid projection. It is apparent that my reach has exceeded my grasp in this particular area. I am perhaps not nearly so human as I aspire to become. If you are ready to eat, I will bring our meal.
JENNA: No, that's alright, Data. I'd better go now.
DATA: As you wish. Jenna. Are we no longer a couple?
JENNA: No, we're not.
DATA: Then I will delete the appropriate program.
JENNA: I'll see you later.
DATA: Hello, Spot.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44995.3. We're en route to the Klingon home world, where I will participate in the installation ceremony of Gowron, the next designated Leader of the High Council. This visit should also provide an opportunity for one of my officers to correct a grave injustice.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
PICARD: Am I intruding?
WORF: No, sir. My apologies, Captain. I can be back in uniform
PICARD: No, that won't be necessary, Mister Worf. I'm not here as your captain. I'm here as the man who stood with you before the High Council. Your cha'DIch. We will arrive at your home world in less than a day.
WORF: It is not time yet.
PICARD: That doesn't sound like the man who came to me a year ago fiercely determined to return home and to clear his father's name or die trying. Isn't it time to confront the Council? To regain your family name? Let the truth be known?
WORF: I have been told that patience is sometimes a more effective weapon than the sword.
PICARD: Patience is a human virtue, one which I am glad to see you've taken to heart. But doesn't this situation require a more Klingon response? Your discommendation is a facade to protect less honorable men. It is a lie. Lies must be challenged.
WORF: I have grown weary of bearing this dishonor.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've been intercepted by the Klingon vessel Bortas.

[Worf's quarters]
RIKER (voiceover): They claim to be our escort.
WORF: No escort was scheduled.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Bortas is standing by, Captain.
PICARD: On screen. Gowron. This is an unexpected pleasure.
GOWRON (screen): I must speak with you, Picard. We will have to move quickly if we are to be successful.
PICARD: Successful?
GOWRON (screen): Yes. In preventing a Klingon civil war.

[Observation lounge]
GOWRON: The family of Duras is massing support. They have many allies on the Council.
PICARD: Duras died in disgrace. By Klingon tradition, his family should share that disgrace.
GOWRON: Their corruption has poisoned the Empire. Honor will soon have no meaning.
PICARD: And who speaks for his family now?
GOWRON: Lursa and B'Etor, the sisters of Duras.
PICARD: And they would claim the leadership of the Council?
GOWRON: Women may not serve on the Council.
PICARD: Then how
GOWRON: I don't know. But they are plotting something. They have secured the loyalty of at least three fleet commanders. Lursa and B'Etor are feared, and fear is power.
PICARD: I do not see what I can do to assist.
GOWRON: You were first chosen as Arbiter of Succession because no Klingon could be trusted. You accepted this duty and you must see it through to the end. You must ensure my installation.
PICARD: That is beyond my purview.
GOWRON: You will not support me?
PICARD: I will not step outside the traditional role of the Arbiter.
GOWRON: And if they attempt to block my installation?
PICARD: Then I can only assure you that I will deal with any challenge according to Klingon law.
GOWRON: I fear that will not be enough.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, would you escort our guest to the transporter room?
PICARD: Begin monitoring Romulan activity along the Neutral Zone, Mister Data. Have the outpost stations send us their tactical reports.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: The Duras family are preparing to move against Gowron.
RIKER: Backed by Romulans?
PICARD: I don't know. But there is too much history between the Duras and the Romulans to discount the possibility.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Dismissed.
WORF: I would speak with you.
GOWRON: I do not hear the words of traitors.
WORF: I am not a traitor.
GOWRON: You admitted your guilt before the Council.
WORF: I accepted discommendation to protect the Empire.
GOWRON: Protect it? How?
WORF: It was Duras' father who betrayed our people to the Romulans at Khitomer, not mine.
GOWRON: Duras? There is proof of this?
WORF: There is.
GOWRON: Why would you accept dishonor to protect Duras?
WORF: His family was too powerful. To expose him would have split the Empire. Instead, the Council chose to blame my father.
GOWRON: The Council knew?
WORF: I believe you to be a man of honor, Gowron. I ask you, restore my family name.
GOWRON: Worf, you killed Duras. I consider that no small favor. But what you ask is impossible.
WORF: But after your installation
GOWRON: The grasp of Duras reaches out from the grave. Much of the Council is still loyal to his family. I must have the Council's support to survive. I cannot expose their treachery. You chose to accept this disgrace for the good of the Empire. Now you must live with your decision, like a Klingon.

[Phaser range]
WORF: Guinan?
GUINAN: It's a little quiet down in Ten Forward, so I thought I'd get off a little target practice. Do you mind if I join you?
WORF: You? Practice?
GUINAN: I like to keep my eye sharp.
WORF: I practice at level fourteen.
GUINAN: Guess I could come down to that level for a while. Begin program.
GUINAN: You know, I had a bet with the Captain that I could make you laugh before you became Lieutenant Commander.
WORF: Not a good bet today.
GUINAN: I've seen you laugh. I like it.
WORF: Klingons do not laugh.
GUINAN: Oh yes they do. Absolutely they do. You don't. But I've heard some Klingon belly laughs that would curl your hair.
GUINAN: Your son laughs. He's a Klingon.
WORF: He is a child and part human.
GUINAN: That's right. And you're not, you're full Klingon except you don't laugh.
WORF: I do not laugh because I do not feel like laughing.
GUINAN: Other Klingons feel like laughing. What does that say about you?
WORF: Perhaps it says that I do not feel like other Klingons.
COMPUTER: Program complete.
GUINAN: Good game. Don't feel bad. I was doing this long before you were born. So how is he? Your son.
WORF: He is having difficulty adjusting to life on Earth.
GUINAN: I can see where it might be hard for the little guy. Living with humans, being Klingon. Could be very confusing.
WORF: It will not be easy for him.
GUINAN: No, it won't. But at some point he's going to want to know what it's like to really be a Klingon. Just as you're learning.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WORF: Captain, I request a leave of absence.
PICARD: Mister Worf, request granted.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant. Qapla!
PICARD: And good luck. Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 44996.1. I have located the Klingon ship on which my brother Kurn serves as captain, and have arranged to join him.

[Kurn's ready room]
KURN: It has been too long, my brother.
WORF: Too long. We have much to discuss. I have asked Gowron to restore our family honor. He has refused.
KURN: Gowron will not live to see the day he leads the Council.
WORF: What do you mean?
KURN: He stands alone, surrounded by his enemies. Lursa and B'Etor will have him killed. And if they don't, I will.
WORF: You will?
KURN: Gowron is weak. The family of Duras must never be allowed to lead the Council. Our leaders have failed us. They no longer deserve our loyalty. It is time to sweep away the old Council and put a new one in its place.
WORF: How can this be done?
KURN: I already have the support of four squadron commanders in key strategic sectors. When the time comes, they will follow me. Join us, Worf, and we will usher in a new era and regain our family name.
WORF: No.
KURN: What?
WORF: Gowron has completed the Rite of Succession. It is our duty to support him.
KURN: Gowron spits in your face when you ask him to give back what is rightfully ours and you would support him?
WORF: We cannot regain honor by acting dishonorably.
KURN: I will not support Gowron.
WORF: I am the elder brother, Kurn. I speak for our family. We will back Gowron. But not now. Not yet. We will wait until he feels the grasp of his enemies around his throat. Then we will offer him our support. And the price will be the restoration of our family name.
KURN: It will be difficult to convince my allies to back Gowron. But I will try. I must go to the Mempa sector to meet with the other squadron commanders.
WORF: Contact me when you have gained their support. Then I will be ready for Gowron.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44996.8. My role as Arbiter of Succession has again brought me to the Great Hall of the Klingon High Council.

[Great Hall]
K'TAL: naDev ghoS!
K'TAL: Have you reached a decision regarding the succession of power?
PICARD: Qaja plu d'itch jung. La woq you ghir klas qimha. Gowron. Doj hon. Doj hon.
K'TAL: Gowron, son of M'Rel, hakt'em. The Arbiter confirms that you have completed the Rite of Succession. Your enemies have been destroyed. You stand alone. Do you wish to claim leadership of the Council?
GOWRON: I wish it.
K'TAL: Are there no other challengers?
TORAL: There is one. I will challenge him.
GOWRON: An arrogant child!
K'TAL: Who are you?
TORAL: I am Toral, son of Duras.
GOWRON: Duras had no son.
B'ETOR: But he did, Gowron.
GOWRON: So, this is your doing, Lursa.
LURSA: We wish to address the Council.
K'TAL: Lursa, B'Etor, come forward.
LURSA: Members of the High Council, it is a day of great rejoicing for the family of Duras and the Klingon Empire. We have discovered that our brother did indeed have a son and heir.
GOWRON: This is outrageous. Duras had no mate. Where did you find him, Lursa? In a harlot's bedchamber?
TORAL: I will personally cut your tongue out, Yintagh!
GOWRON: Impudent wretch.
B'ETOR: A simple genetic scan will prove his bloodline is valid.
GOWRON: The illegitimate son of Duras cannot rule the High Council.
K'TAL: The Arbiter will consider his validity. Len'mat.

[Duras home]
LURSA: Our allies on the Council backed Toral's claim. It's in Picard's hands, now.
MOVAR: Excellent. Everything is proceeding as scheduled.
TORAL: Why not just kill Picard?
B'ETOR: Fool! Do we want the Federation as our enemy?
TORAL: No.
WOMAN: At least, not yet. But when the time is right we will deal with the Federation and Captain Picard.

[Worf's quarters]
KURN (screen): I have met with the other squadron commanders here. Three will join us, one will not. That gives us enough strength to control seven key sectors.
WORF: Do you know the strength of our enemies?
KURN (screen): They have at least seven squadrons, but most of the fleet has not decided which banner to follow.
WORF: Gowron is nearly out of options. Soon he will have no choice
KURN (screen): I will return soon to the home world. We shall meet then.

[Bridge]
DATA: Do you also require the original logs recorded during the attack, Lieutenant?
WORF: Everything we have on the Khitomer massacre.
DATA: We can provide you with our analysis of the communications between the Khitomer outpost and the Romulan ships. However, for a complete record you will have to contact Starbase twenty four
PICARD: Mister Worf. Have you canceled your leave?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant, would you join me in my Ready room?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Mister Worf, you're using our files on the Khitomer massacre as evidence against Duras' father?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Do you not see an inherent conflict of interest here?
WORF: Sir, those Federation records will help me prove that my father was falsely accused of treason.
PICARD: You are using your position as a Starfleet officer to affect political change on your planet. There could not be a worse compromise of our fundamental principles.
WORF: Do not tie my hands now. I must be able to prove my father's innocence. Those Federation records can do that.
PICARD: Mister Worf. Here I am lecturing you on a conflict of interest while I'm desperately trying to avoid one of my own. Do you think I wish to allow the Duras family to solidify their hold on the Council? Do you think I cannot see for myself the implications for the Federation? Good Lord, Duras tried to have me killed! All of my instincts, my training, my very being as a Starfleet officer are at odds with my responsibilities as Arbiter of the Klingon High Council. We walk the same tightrope between two worlds, you and I. We must try our very best to keep those two worlds separate, or we shall certainly fall.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I will make the Khitomer massacre files available to anyone who wants them. To the High Council, to the Duras family, to you. Anyone.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, this is as far as I can go.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There's a message coming in for you from the surface. It's coded personal.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Send it through.

[Duras home]
B'ETOR: Captain, welcome. Please, come in. Be seated.
LURSA: Something to drink, Captain? Tea. Earl Gray, perhaps?
PICARD: Thank you.
B'ETOR: You come alone, and unarmed
PICARD: Nothing would be served by killing the Arbiter before his decision.
B'ETOR: Nevertheless, a brave act, Captain.
LURSA: B'Etor.
PICARD: Your invitation was unexpected.
B'ETOR: We should have extended it much sooner.
LURSA: We don't want you to judge us by your experience with our brother.
B'ETOR: Duras was a fool.
LURSA: He deserved to die.
B'ETOR: Forget him. We have.
LURSA: We do not wish to be your enemy.
B'ETOR: Quite the opposite.
PICARD: That pleases me.
LURSA: Have you made your decision regarding Toral's challenge?
PICARD: I am pursuing it with due vigilance.
B'ETOR: Allow me to heat your tea.
LURSA: Toral has the bloodline to lead the Empire into the next century. He has the support of the people.
PICARD: Then it remains to see if he has the support of the law.
B'ETOR: But he must. Surely, you can see that.
PICARD: I'll tell you what I see. If I find Toral's challenge valid, the two of you will very quickly gain control of the Council and Gowron will be found dead shortly thereafter. If I reject Toral's claim, you will accuse me of serving Federation interests. It will serve as a rallying cry to declare war and overthrow Gowron.
LURSA: You see very clearly, Captain. But one thing is missing. If you rule against us and we are victorious in a war against Gowron.
B'ETOR: Which we would be>
LURSA: It will mean the end of the alliance with the Federation.
B'ETOR: And we would hate to see that happen as much as you would.
LURSA: This is not a threat, Captain. Just an unfortunate truth.
B'ETOR: So why be our enemy, when you can be our friend?
PICARD: You have manipulated the circumstances with the skill of a Romulan. My decision will be announced at high sun tomorrow. Excellent tea. Good day, ladies.

[Great Hall]
K'TAL: What is your decision?
PICARD: K'Tal, this Council knows the law of heredity well. G'now juk Hol pajhard. A son shall share in the honors or crimes of his father. Toral is Duras' son. That has been established by the genetic scan. But with due respect to the traditions and laws of this High Council, there is no basis for accepting a petition for leadership from a boy who has fought no battles, shed no blood for his people, or earned no honor for himself. One day, perhaps he shall. But not now. Duras is dead. His claim to the leadership died with him. Gowron shall lead the Council.
GOWRON: The Arbiter has ruled. There are no more challengers.
TORAL: Does the Federation dictate Klingon destiny or do we? Follow me and I will show you honor.
GOWRON: Follow him and you reject all Klingon law.
GOWRON: Can you not see what you are doing? Are you blind to what they represent? Then go. Your blood will paint the way to the future.

[Gowron's Ready room]
GOWRON: Your message said it was urgent. What do you want?
WORF: Your forces are weak, Gowron. You need help to fight the family of Duras.
GOWRON: From one dishonored Klingon.
WORF: I offer you four Klingon squadrons.
GOWRON: Why would they follow you, a Starfleet officer?
WORF: They are pledged to support my brother, Kurn.
GOWRON: Kurn is your brother?
WORF: Yes. His true bloodlines were hidden to protect him.
GOWRON: Kurn will follow me? He has opposed me in the past.
WORF: I am the elder brother. He will do as I say.
GOWRON: What is it you want in return?
WORF: You know my price.
GOWRON: The return of your honor. For the support of four squadrons? No, that will not be enough. The Duras family controls most of the fleet. We must have Federation help.
WORF: They will not intervene.
GOWRON: Perhaps not yet, but Starfleet Command will listen to Picard and Picard listens to you.
WORF: I can ask nothing more of him in this matter.
GOWRON: What?
WORF: My duty as a Starfleet officer
GOWRON: You come to me and demand the restoration of your family honor and now you hide behind human excuses? What are you, Worf? Do you tremble and quake with fear at the approach of combat, hoping to talk your way out of a fight like a human? Or do you hear the cry of the warrior calling you to battle, calling you to glory like a Klingon?

[Gowron's Bridge]
GOWRON: Status!
KLINGON: Aft shields down.
HELMSMAN: Warp coils damaged.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Red alert.
DATA: A second ship has joined the attack on the Bortas.
PICARD: It's begun.

[Gowron's Bridge]
GOWRON: Send an emergency signal to any loyal ships!
HELMSMAN: Impulse engines not responding!
GOWRON: Engage emergency override!
WORF: Override engaged. Disruptors still not responding.

[Bridge]
DATA: The Bortas has lost her port shields, sir. It is unlikely they will withstand another hit at that quarter. Their primary life support has failed, sir.
RIKER: The Bortas has put out a general distress call.
PICARD: Ensign Riol, plot a course to take us safely away from the combat area. Half impulse.
RIKER: Captain, the Bortas is Gowron's ship. If he's the legitimate leader of the Empire, shouldn't we help him?
PICARD: If we go to the aid of the Bortas, we'll be dragging the Federation into a Klingon civil war.
RIKER: What about Worf?
PICARD: Ensign, engage.

[Gowron's Bridge]
KLINGON: Port shields are still down.
WORF: Disruptors online.
GOWRON: Lock on target.
WORF: No. Don't you see? Their sensors will detect the weapons lock. If they think we're helpless, they will try to board the ship. I can aim and fire disruptors manually when they drop their shields.
GOWRON: GhoS.
WORF: Thirty five thousand kellicams. Twenty thousand kellicams. Now within transporter range.
GOWRON: SuH.
WORF: They're dropping their shields.
GOWRON: BaH!
WORF: Firing on second target.
KLINGON: They were able to raise the shields in time. Minor damage only.
WORF: Disruptors offline.
GOWRON: All power to shields.
KLINGON: Shields failing!
WORF: Incoming message.
GOWRON: On viewer.
KURN (screen): This is Captain Kurn of the Hegh'ta. We come to defend the Empire and to follow the banner of Gowron.
WORF: The enemy has sustained major damage to its life support systems They have disengaged.
GOWRON: You have done well, Commander Kurn. Lursa and B'Etor have moved more quickly than I anticipated. We shall not underestimate them again. Meet us at the Great Hall.
GOWRON: Advise the Enterprise that their delegation is welcome to attend my installation as leader.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 44998.3. With new-found support, Gowron has chosen to proceed with the installation ceremony. The Enterprise has returned so that I may perform my final duty as Arbiter of Succession.

[Great hall]
K'TAL: Receive now the loyalty of the Council and of the Empire.
ALL: Qapla!
GOWRON: naDev ghoS.
GOWRON: You both fought as warriors. You have proved your hearts are Klingon.
GOWRON: I return your family honor. I give you back that which was wrongfully taken from you. Let your name be spoken once again. You are Worf, son of Mogh.

[Observation lounge]
GOWRON: The Duras family is gathering a large force near Beta Thoridar. As per the terms of the Treaty of Alliance, I now formally request your assistance in fighting these enemies of the Empire.
RIKER: These enemies are Klingons.
GOWRON: By right and tradition, I am the sole leader. All who oppose me are traitors.
PICARD: I understand your position, but I', sure you're aware that the Federation cannot interfere in what is, by definition, an internal Klingon affair.
GOWRON: You arbitrated the Rite of Succession. You are already involved.
PICARD: My duties in that regard are finished.
WORF: Captain, we must intervene. The Duras family is corrupt and hungry for power with no sense of honor or loyalty. They represent a grave threat to the security of the Federation. Captain, you and I know that they have conspired with Romulans in the past. If they should be victors in this war, they will surely form a new Klingon-Romulan alliance. That would represent a fundamental shift of power in this quadrant. Starfleet must support Gowron. It is in the interests of both the Federation and the Empire. I beg you, support us in our cause.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I don't have to lecture you on the principle of non interference. As Starfleet officers, we have all sworn an oath to uphold that principle whatever our personal feelings. I'm sorry. I must refuse your request.
PICARD: Mister Worf. I'm afraid I must recall you to duty. The Enterprise will be leaving this sector immediately.
WORF: Captain, I respectfully request that I be allowed to take an extended leave of absence.
PICARD: Mister Worf, your responsibilities as a Starfleet officer are incompatible with remaining on board a Klingon ship during a time of war.
WORF: Captain.
PICARD: I order you to return to duty at once.
WORF: Then I resign my commission as a Starfleet officer.
GOWRON: I will await you aboard the Bortas.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
PICARD: Am I intruding?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: I understand that you'll be serving on board the Bortas.
WORF: As weapons officer.
PICARD: Your tactical knowledge and experience will serve them well.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you certain that this is the right decision?
WORF: I was rescued from Khitomer by humans. Raised and loved by human parents. I've spent most of my life around humans, fought beside them. But I was born a Klingon. My heart is of that world. I do hear the cry of the warrior. I belong with my people.
PICARD: Being the only Klingon ever to serve in Starfleet gave you a singular distinction, but I felt that what was unique about you was your humanity, compassion, generosity, fairness. You took the best qualities of humanity and made them part of you. The result was a man who I was proud to call one of my officers. I'll have your belongings transported to the Bortas.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Attention on deck.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Permission to leave the ship, sir?
PICARD: Permission granted. Qapla'
WORF: Goodbye.
RIKER: Dismissed.

[Duras family home]
MOVAR: Picard has rejected Gowron's plea for help. The Enterprise has left orbit.
TORAL: Coward! He didn't have the courage to face us. The Federation is
WOMAN: Celebrate later, Toral. We should not discount Jean Luc Picard yet. He is human, and humans have a way of showing up when you least expect them.
GOWRON (screen): We will have to move quickly if we are to be successful.
PICARD: Successful?
GOWRON (screen): Yes. In preventing a Klingon civil war.
WORF: I would speak with you.
GOWRON: I do not hear the words of traitors.
WORF: It was Duras' father who betrayed our people to the Romulans at Khitomer, not mine.
LURSA: We have discovered that our brother did indeed have a son and heir.
TORAL: Follow me, and I will show you honor.
GOWRON: Your blood will paint the way to the future.
PICARD: If we go to the aid of the Bortas, we'll be dragging the Federation into a Klingon civil war.
GOWRON: You both fought as warriors. I return your family honor.
PICARD: Mister Worf, your responsibilities as a Starfleet officer are incompatible with remaining on board a Klingon ship during a time of war.
WORF: Then I resign my commission as a Starfleet officer.
MOVAR: Picard has rejected Gowron's plea for help. The Enterprise has left orbit.
WOMAN: We should not discount Jean Luc Picard yet. He is human, and humans have a way of showing up when you least expect them. And now, the conclusion.

[Kurn's Bridge]
KURN: Maintain course. Status of warp engines? Warp engines at fifty percent.
KURN: Status of shields?
WORF: Aft shields buckling.
KURN: Transfer auxiliary power to shields!
WORF: Aft shields are gone! We cannot win. We must withdraw.
KURN: Keep your place! New course. Three zero seven mark two seven five.
HELM: But sir, that takes us dangerously close to the
KURN: GhoS!
WORF: We are entering the star's corona. We will reach the photosphere in thirty seconds.
KURN: Stand by to enter warp on my command. Set course two five zero mark zero one five.
WORF: Shields failing. Outer hull temperature exceeding design limit. Captain!
KURN: Maintain course.
WORF: They're closing on us!
KURN: Stand by. DaH!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45020.4. We have arrived at Starbase two thirty four, where I have taken the opportunity to make a proposal to Fleet Admiral Shanthi.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: There have been three major engagements in the last two weeks, all of them won by ships loyal to the Duras family.
SHANTHI: None of which is our concern, Jean-Luc. The Klingon civil war is, by definition, an internal matter of the Empire.
PICARD: Agreed. But if the Duras are being aided by the Romulans, it becomes very much our concern. The Romulans have been attempting to destroy the Klingon-Federation Alliance for the past twenty years. At the same time, the Duras have been secretly conspiring with the Romulans. Doesn't it strike you as odd that the Duras are able to field such an overpowering force against Gowron? That they outmatch him at almost every turn?
SHANTHI: Some would call it good leadership.
PICARD: And some would say they must be getting help. The Romulans are prepared to take enormous risks to gain any advantage over the Federation. Can we seriously believe that now, with the future of the Klingon Empire in the balance, they are content to stand by and watch?
SHANTHI: What is it you propose, Captain?
PICARD: We must stop the flow of supplies and equipment to the Duras from the Romulans. What I propose is that we send a fleet to the Romulan-Klingon border. We'll take no offensive action, but we will be in a position to expose any Romulan supplies that attempt to cross the border.
SHANTHI: A blockade.
PICARD: Exactly.
SHANTHI: But how would you overcome the Romulan cloaking device?
PICARD: My Chief Engineer has developed a system that should nullify that advantage. Each ship will send out an active tachyon beam to the other blockading ships. Now, in theory, any cloaked vessel that attempts to pass between our ships must cross that beam and be detected.
SHANTHI: I'll have to clear this with the Federation Council. In the meantime, assemble your fleet, Captain.
RIKER: Nicely done. I hope we know what we're doing.
PICARD: So do I, Number One.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45021.3. Convincing Starfleet Command to establish a blockade was relatively painless. Implementing that plan is proving more troublesome.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Starfleet is stretched pretty thin across the quadrant. There are only about twelve ships within a day's travel of this position.
LAFORGE: The only other ships available are either in spacedock for repairs or still under construction. Most of them don't even have full crews yet.
RIKER: We could probably scare up seven, maybe eight, more ships.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can you implement your tachyon detection grid with twenty ships?
LAFORGE: It's possible, but the more ships, the bigger the net we can throw.
PICARD: All right. I want to add the Tian Nan Men, the Sutherland and the Hermes, whether the yard superintendent says they're ready or not. Mister Data, will you select a group of experienced Enterprise officers to augment the crews of those ships.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Will, I want you to command the Excalibur. Her crew was reassigned when she put in for repairs. Geordi, you will be his First Officer.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I want the fleet underway by oh nine hundred tomorrow. Thank you, gentlemen.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: May I ask a question, sir, of a personal nature?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA: I am confused. Why have I not been assigned to command a ship in the fleet, sir?
PICARD: Well, I felt that you would be needed here. Why do you ask?
DATA: You have commented on the lack of senior officers available for this mission. I believe my twenty six years of Starfleet service qualifies me for such a post. However, if you do not believe the time has arrived for an android to command a starship, perhaps I should address myself to improving my
PICARD: Commander. I believe the starship Sutherland will need a captain. I can think of no one better suited to the task than you.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Klingon bar]
KURN: You always did have fools working for you, Larg. Now you don't have as many!
LARG: You were lucky, Kurn, but luck always runs out. Someday I will stand over your broken corpse and drink to the victory of the Duras!
KURN: Ah, Worf, good. This piece of baktag is Captain Larg. He commanded the squadron that tried to destroy us yesterday.
LARG: The infamous Worf, son of Mogh. What is that you are wearing? That is the uniform of a Klingon!
KURN: The Capital City is neutral ground and Larg's men are all around us. As are mine.
LARG: Good to drink with you, Kurn. May you die well.
KURN: Die well, Larg.
WORF: You drink with our enemies?
KURN: How many are Gowron's men? How many are Duras? Does it matter? When we meet in battle, we will fight to the death, but here, here we're all warriors, all Klingons.
WORF: The repairs to the Hegh'ta are proceeding. The port stabilizers
KURN: Is there nothing in your heart but duty?
WORF: It is my responsibility.
KURN: We all have responsibilities and duties, But you and I are warriors fighting in a great war. Think of it. You and I will fight battles that others can only dream of. The time for glory is here. It is not a time to worry about stabilizers. It is a time to celebrate, for tomorrow we all may die! Come, let us, the sons of Mogh, live this night as if it were our last.
B'ETOR: Worf is not like his brother.
LURSA: No. He tries to be, but he's still unsure of himself.
B'ETOR: Perhaps he needs something to help restore his confidence.
LURSA: I think he'll find our offer appealing.
B'ETOR: I'll make sure he does.

[Sutherland Bridge]
HOBSON: You've got to keep this mixture above ninety percent or we'll never leave orbit. Thank you, Mister Krags.
DATA: I am Lieutenant Commander Data.
HOBSON: Lieutenant Commander Christopher Hobson.
DATA: By order of Starfleet, I hereby take command of this vessel. Please note the time and date in the ship's log.
HOBSON: Excuse me, sir. I'd like to request a transfer.
DATA: May I ask why?
HOBSON: I don't believe I'd be a good first officer for you.
DATA: Your service record to date suggests that you would perform that function adequately.
HOBSON: No, no, no, that's not what I mean. I don't think that I would be a good first officer for you.
DATA: Why?
HOBSON: Frankly, sir, I don't believe in your ability to command this ship. You're a fellow officer and I respect that, but no one would suggest that a Klingon would make a good ship's counselor or that a Berellian could be an engineer. They're just not suited for those positions. By the same token, I don't think an android is a good choice to be captain.
DATA: I understand your concerns. Request denied.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: The Endeavor has cleared the dock, Captain. All ships standing by.
PICARD: Good. Course one one eight mark three five seven, full impulse power. Signal the fleet to get underway. We'll enter warp once we're clear of the system.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Duras' home]
B'ETOR: The Romulan convoy is late. We need those supplies.
SELA: Gowron has suffered another loss in the Mempa system. His forces will not threaten you in that region for some time.
B'ETOR: But if Gowron
SELA: The convoy will arrive in due course.
LURSA: The Federation fleet has left Starbase two thirty four. They've set course for Klingon territory.
MOVAR: How many?
LURSA: At least twenty starships.
SELA: Who's commanding this fleet?
LURSA: Picard.
TORAL: What does it mean? Is the Federation going to enter the war? Should we attack them before they get here?
SELA: Silence the child, or send him away. Movar, I want you to return to Romulus immediately. Have all available ships rendezvous at these coordinates in two days.
MOVAR: Yes, Commander.
LURSA: Twenty ships aren't enough to wage a war. Starfleet must be bluffing.
SELA: Perhaps.

[Great Hall]
KURN: Our forces in the Mempa sector are now in full retreat. They will need to regroup near Beta Lankal.
GOWRON: We destroyed their supply bases in that sector three weeks ago. How can they continue to fight?
KURN: They must be getting help.
KULGE: Maybe they have better leaders. I say you have failed as our leader, Gowron.
WORF: There is no time for this! We must make plans before those forces reach Beta Lankal! How can we oppose the Duras when we continue to fight among ourselves?
KURN: Gowron must answer a challenge to his authority.
WORF: Stop it! Do we to fall upon ourselves like a pack of Ferengi? The enemy is the Duras. We are at war!
GOWRON: Now the war can continue.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: We're crossing into Klingon territory, Captain.
PICARD: Signal the fleet to maintain yellow alert until further notice.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Begin long range scans of the Romulan border.
O'BRIEN: No uncloaked ships within sensor range. A few subspace anomalies, but nothing firm.
PICARD: Those anomalies could be cloaked ships.
O'BRIEN: Could be, sir.
PICARD: Open a channel to the Excalibur.
RIKER (voiceover): Excalibur, Riker here.
PICARD: Deploy the fleet, Will. It's time to spread our net.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Sutherland Bridge]
HOBSON: We've arrived at the designated coordinates, Captain.
DATA: All stop. Notify the flagship that we have assumed station.
HOBSON: Starboard power coupling has overloaded. We've got a radiation leak on decks ten through twelve.
DATA: Why are the backups not functioning?
HOBSON: There wasn't enough time to test all the backups before we left the yard. Terry, I want you down in Engineering working on a new coupling.
DATA: You have taken the phaser and torpedo control units offline.
HOBSON: Keith, you and I will start bringing the radiation
DATA: Mister Hobson, it is inappropriate for you to determine a course of action without consulting the commanding officer.
HOBSON: I was trying to safeguard the lives of people on those decks, but you're right. Belay those orders, everyone. Phasers and torpedoes are back online. What should we do, sir?
DATA: You will take the phasers and torpedo units offline and begin repairs of the starboard power coupling.
HOBSON: Thank you, sir. You heard the Captain, everyone.

[Bridge]
RIKER (screen): We're ready, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how long do you think it will take the Romulans to detect the tachyon field once it's activated?
LAFORGE (screen): Not long Romulan sensors are as good as ours.
PICARD: Very well. Energize the network.

[Romulan command center]
MOVAR: There's an increase in tachyon emissions from the Federation fleet.
SELA: They're using the beams as a detection field.
MOVAR: If we try to cross it, they'll see us, even if we're cloaked.
SELA: Issue orders to begin work on a way to penetrate this field. In the meantime, we'll have to convince Captain Picard he should leave.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Captain, I'm picking up something directly ahead. Romulan ship decloaking. Shall I raise shields?
PICARD: Not yet.
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us, sir.
PICARD: On screen. Tasha?
SELA (screen): No, Captain. I am Commander Sela. The woman you knew as Tasha Yar was my mother. Deploying an invasion fleet along our border is a clear act of aggression, Captain. It will not be tolerated. You have twenty hours to recall your ships and return peacefully to Federation territory.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: So you believe her, Counselor?
TROI: I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I sensed no deception from her. She really believes she is the daughter of Tasha Yar.
CRUSHER: Regardless of what she believes, Sela can't be her daughter. I've reviewed all of Tasha's medical records, and there is no indication that she was ever pregnant.
PICARD: Besides, Tasha was a child when this woman was born.
TROI: Sela could have been cloned.
CRUSHER: Or had her appearance surgically altered.
PICARD: But why? What possible advantage could there be to the Romulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impact on our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move to them. Thank you.
GUINAN: Am I intruding?
PICARD: No, not at all. Is something wrong?
GUINAN: News travels fast. I heard that Tasha Yar's daughter is aboard the Romulan ship.
PICARD: I think that the Romulans are just hoping to create a distraction. They want to keep us off balance.
GUINAN: How much do you know about what happened to the last ship called Enterprise?
PICARD: Enterprise C? She was lost at the battle of Narendra Three, defending a Klingon outpost from the Romulans.
GUINAN: And the survivors?
PICARD: There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, but these were only rumors.
GUINAN: No. There were survivors. And Tasha Yar was one of them.
PICARD: Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only a child.
GUINAN: I know that. But I also know she was aboard that ship and she was not a child. And I think you sent her there.
PICARD: How can that be?
GUINAN: I don't know. I just know that you did.
PICARD: Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You never met her.
GUINAN: I know that.
PICARD: If you have only a vague intuition
GUINAN: You can't just dismiss this. If I'm right, then you are responsible for this whole situation.
PICARD: I think that it's time I met Commander Sela.

[Klingon bar]
WORF: We are at war. Gowron should forbid any challenges until we are victorious.
KURN: A Klingon does not postpone a matter of honor.
WORF: A Klingon should place the good of the Empire above his own pride.
KURN: So now Gowron no longer suits you. Perhaps you mean to challenge him for the leadership of the Council?
WORF: No.
KURN: Then do not speak of this again! I did not wish to follow Gowron. You came to me and insisted we support Gowron against the Duras family. The time for debate is over. We are Klingons. He is our leader. If that is not enough for you, then perhaps you made the wrong choice when you put on that uniform.

[Observation lounge]
SELA: Well, Captain, what is this urgent matter we need to discuss?
PICARD: Please, won't you sit down?
PICARD: I'm afraid that you have misinterpreted our presence here. I want to reassure you that we have no hostile intention.
SELA: Ah. Then I can tell my superiors that a fleet of twenty three Federation starships is on our border for, what, humanitarian reasons?
PICARD: It is our intent to prevent any external power from interfering in Klingon affairs.
SELA: Nor do we have any plan to do so. But Captain, if for any reason we chose to enter Klingon territory, how would you stop us? With our cloaking devices we can slip by you at will.
PICARD: Then why don't you just take your ships across?
SELA: You sound eager for us to try. Perhaps you've discovered a method in detecting our ships? However, I don't think you asked me here to discuss our military situation.
PICARD: All right. Why did I invite you here?
SELA: You want the answer to the only question on your mind. How could Tasha Yar be my mother?
PICARD: It's been suggested that she was aboard the Enterprise C when it was destroyed twenty four years ago, that she was one of the survivors and that obviously you are a product of a union between her and a Romulan.
SELA: But you know that's impossible. She would have been a child when that battle occurred.
PICARD: And yet you claim that it is possible, that you're the daughter of Tasha Yar.
SELA: Yes, she was on that ship twenty four years ago. She was sent there by you from the future. She was among those few who survived. They were all to have been executed after the interrogation, but a Romulan general saw her and became enamored with her. So a deal was struck. Their lives would be spared if she became his consort. I was born a year later.
PICARD: I want to meet your mother. Can you arrange that?
SELA: One night, when I was four years old, she came to me. She bundled me up and she told me to stay quiet as we left the compound. I realized she was taking me away. She was taking me away from my home, my father, so I cried out. My father offered her life. He gave her a home, gave her a child, and how did she repay him? By betrayal. They executed her. Everything in me that was human died that day with my mother. All that's left is Romulan. Never doubt that.
PICARD: Doubts? I'm full of them. But nothing in my experience can persuade me that what you have told me is true. And I do know one thing. It will not affect my judgment at our next encounter.
SELA: You have fourteen hours, Captain. I suggest you use them wisely.

[Duras' home]
B'ETOR: Is something wrong?
LURSA: Welcome, Worf, son of Mogh.
WORF: What do you want?
LURSA: The same as you. Personal honor. Glory for the Empire.
WORF: Your family has never valued honor.
B'ETOR: You knew only our brother. We are not like him.
LURSA: Our brother made many mistakes. One was to make you an enemy.
B'ETOR: We would rather be your friends.
WORF: Then you should not have opposed Gowron.
B'ETOR: Gowron is nothing.
LURSA: Toral is Duras' only son, and he will be the leader of the Council. In your heart, even you know that. But Toral needs guidance.
B'ETOR: A firm hand.
LURSA: A father figure. That could be you, if you were mated to B'Etor.
B'ETOR: The rewards could be greater than you can imagine.
LURSA: Nothing will stand in our way.
B'ETOR: We could rule the Empire together.
LURSA: Join us, Worf, and usher in a new era for our people.
WORF: An era where honor has no meaning? Where Klingons trade loyalties in dark rooms and where the Empire is ruled from Romulus.
SELA (screen): Enough, Lursa. You failed. I need to know the strength and capabilities of the Federation fleet. I don't have time for this. Turn him over to the guard. B'Etor can have him back when they've finished with him.
ROMULAN: Come!

[Bridge]
PICARD: In thirteen hours we'll be forced to either withdraw from the border or fight the Romulan fleet. Neither alternative is acceptable. We must expose their involvement before the deadline.
GOWRON (screen): What is it you propose?
PICARD: If you launch a full-scale attack now, then the Duras fleet will call for supplies. Lursa and B'Etor will call for help. The Romulans will try to run the blockade, and we'll be ready for them.
GOWRON (screen): And once the Romulan connection has been exposed, support will fall away from Lursa and B'Etor. Very well. I will make preparations. One thing more, Picard. Worf has been captured by the Duras. I hope he dies well. Qapla!

[Ready room]
PICARD: When Gowron begins his attack, then we will make our move. Excalibur will fall back with engine problems. You will take the Akagi and the Hornet to this position, which will open a small gap in our detection net.
RIKER: And if the Romulans are already aware of the tachyon field, they should run the blockade at that point.
PICARD: Exactly. When they try to bring their ships through, the Enterprise and the Tian Nan Men will swing around, close the gap and catch them in the act.
RIKER: Very nice. I'd better get back.
PICARD: Good luck, Will.
RIKER: Good luck, Captain.

[Romulan command center]
MOVAR: We've just received an urgent message from Lursa and B'Etor. Gowron's forces have attacked in three sectors. The Duras are nearing defeat.
SELA: You mean they were caught unprepared and now they're crying for help. Have the science sections found a way to circumvent the detection grid yet?
MOVAR: We think so. Just before we cross the border, we'll send out a massive tachyon pulse. A burst that large should cause enough interference to disable a part of their network.
SELA: Good.
MOVAR: One of their ships is moving off the blockade line.
SELA: Their warp drive is failing.
MOVAR: Picard is redeploying the fleet to compensate for the missing ship. There's a gap opening in the net.
SELA: He doesn't have enough ships to maintain the network.
MOVAR: If we act quickly we can move through. Commander?
SELA: No. I don't think so.
MOVAR: But it's what we've been waiting for.
SELA: Yes I know and so does Picard. He's giving us exactly what we need and he expects us to take it. No. We won't step into Picard's trap. We will disable part of his network here, where they're weakest. We'll direct the energy burst right at the ship with the android Captain.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, the detection net is picking up activity from the Romulans. Fifteen cloaked ships spreading out along the border.
PICARD: Signal the fleet to stand by.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Romulan command center]
SELA: Now.
SELA: Come to course zero eight zero mark two nine five.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: There's a disruption in the tachyon detectors! It's localized to this segment of the net.
PICARD: Open a channel to the Sutherland.
DATA (voiceover): Data here, sir.
PICARD: We're reading a disruption of the tachyon net in your area.
DATA (voiceover): Yes, sir. The Romulans have released a high energy burst. The net is no longer effective in a radius of ten million kilometers around the Sutherland.
PICARD: That's where they're going through. Send a signal to the fleet. All ships to fall back and rendezvous at Gamma Eridon. We'll re-establish the net there.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Sutherland Bridge]
HOBSON: All Federation ships proceed at maximum warp to Gamma Eridon.
DATA: Acknowledge the signal. Ensign, lay in the course and engage at warp nine point three.
CRAIG: Aye, sir.
HOBSON: What are you doing?
DATA: In disrupting the detection net, the Romulans may have caused a residual tachyon signature to form around their own ships.
HOBSON: But we have no way of detecting it.
DATA: All stop.
CRAIG: Aye, sir. All stop.
HOBSON: Sir, the fleet's been ordered to Gamma Eridon.
DATA: The tachyon signatures will not last long. By the time the fleet is deployed, it will be too late. Begin to reconfigure the sensors to detect ionized particle traces.
HOBSON: The entire area's been flooded with tachyon particles. We'll never be able to find what we're looking for.
DATA: I am aware of the difficulties. Please bring the phasers back online.
HOBSON: That will flood three decks with radiation!
DATA: We will initiate radiation protocol when necessary.
HOBSON: You don't give a damn about the people whose lives you're throwing away. We're not just machines
DATA: Mister Hobson! You will carry out my orders or I will relieve you of duty.
HOBSON: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Captain, the Sutherland isn't heading for the rendezvous point. She's come to a full stop.
PICARD: Open a channel.

[Sutherland Bridge]
HOBSON: The Enterprise wants to know the reason we've stopped.
DATA: Display sensor schematic. Display sensor sweep, maximum range.
HOBSON: Are you going to answer the Enterprise?
DATA: Overlay display with tachyon emissions. Highlight any tachyon signatures which show subspace inertial displacement. Concentrate a sensor sweep in that area.
HOBSON: Sir, this is pointless. Those readings could be anything. There's no way for us to be sure the Romulans are out there.
DATA: Reconfigure photon torpedo warhead yields. Set for high energy burst level six.
HOBSON: Level six? But that won't even
DATA: Do it!
HOBSON: Torpedoes ready. Another message coming in. It's Captain Picard!
PICARD (voiceover): Mister Data, you were ordered to rendezvous with the fleet at Gamma Eridon. Acknowledge.
DATA: Stand by, Captain. Mister Hobson, prepare to fire.
HOBSON: Didn't you hear? Captain Picard wants us
DATA: Fire. Fire!

[Romulan command center]
MOVAR: They have discovered us!
SELA: Reverse course. Order the fleet back to Romulan territory.
MOVAR: Commander, the Duras need this convoy. Without these supplies, they cannot win.
SELA: We've been exposed. It's over.
MOVAR: But what should I tell Lursa and B'Etor?
SELA: Tell them they're on their own.

[Sutherland Bridge]
HOBSON: They're changing course, heading back to Romulan space.
DATA: Make a full report to the flagship. Take the main phasers offline and begin radiation clean up on the affected decks.
HOBSON: Yes, sir, Captain.

[Duras' home]
B'ETOR: Defeat.
TORAL: How? Where are the Romulans?
LURSA: They never came.
LURSA: Kill him.
TORAL: No!
KURN: Toral, the next Leader of the Empire. Gowron is looking forward to seeing you again. Captain's personal log, stardate 45025.4. It is with a profound sense of relief that I have ordered the fleet back to Federation territory following the Romulan withdrawal and the news of Gowron's victory. We have arrived at the Klingon home world, where I will present the High Council with a full report on our encounter with the Romulans.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I wish to submit myself for disciplinary action. I have disobeyed a direct order from a superior officer. Although the result of my actions proved positive, the ends cannot justify the means.
PICARD: No, they can't. However, the claim 'I was only following orders' has been used to justify too many tragedies in our history. Starfleet doesn't want officers who will blindly follow orders without analyzing the situation. Your actions were appropriate for the circumstances, and I have noted that in your record.
PICARD: Mister Data. Nicely done.
DATA: Sir.

[Great Hall]
GOWRON: The Council appreciates your report, Captain. The information on the Romulan supply ships will prove very useful. Before you leave, there is one last matter to attend to.
GOWRON: Bring him.
KURN: Toral, son of Duras, you stand convicted of treason.
TORAL: The Duras family will one day rule the Empire!
GOWRON: Perhaps. But not today. Worf. This child's family wrongly took your name and your honor from you. In return, I give his life to you.
KURN: What's wrong? Kill him!
WORF: No.
KURN: But it's our way. It is the Klingon way.
WORF: I know. But it is not my way. This boy has done me no harm and I will not kill him for the crimes of his family.
GOWRON: Then it falls to Kurn.
WORF: No. No, you gave me his life, and I have spared it.
GOWRON: As you wish.
WORF: Request permission to return to duty, sir.
PICARD: Granted.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45047.2. The Enterprise is en route to the uninhabited El-Adrel system, its location is near the territory occupied by an enigmatic race known as The Children of Tama.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Apparently the Tamarians arrived at El-Adrel Four nearly three weeks ago. They have been transmitting a subspace signal towards Federation space ever since.
DATA: The signal is a standard mathematical progression. It does not carry a specific message.
RIKER: But they wanted us to know they were there.
PICARD: Apparently so, Number One. Starfleet believes that their presence is an attempt at communication. Commander.
DATA: Federation vessels have encountered Tamarian ships seven times over the past one hundred years. Each meeting went without incident, however formal relations were not established because communication was not possible.
RIKER: Why?
DATA: The Children of Tama were called incomprehensible by Captain Silvestri of the Shiku Maru. Other accounts were comparable.
WORF: A cause for concern. For all we know, they could be threatening our border.
TROI: Everything in the previous encounters suggests a peaceable race. We have to start from there.
PICARD: Agreed. I appreciate your prudence, Mister Worf, but Starfleet believes that the Tamarians have extended a hand. We must do the same.
RIKER: The Children of Tama. I've heard rumors about them for years.
PICARD: Indeed. Are they truly incomprehensible? In my experience, communication is a matter of patience, imagination. I would like to believe these are qualities we have in sufficient measure.

[Bridge]
DATHON (screen): Rai and Jiri at Lungha. Rai of Lowani. Lowani under two moons. Jiri of Ubaya. Ubaya of crossed roads at Lungha. Lungha, her sky gray. Rai and Jiri at Lungha.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I'm sense nothing but good intentions from them, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The Tamarian seems to be stating the proper names of individuals and locations.
PICARD: Yes, but what does it all mean?
DATA: I am at a loss, sir.
PICARD: Captain, would you be prepared to consider the creation of a mutual non-aggression pact between our two peoples, possibly leading to a trade agreement and cultural interchange. Does this sound like a reasonable course of action to you?
TAMARIAN (screen): Kadir beneath Mo Moteh.
DATHON (screen): The river Temarc! In winter.
PICARD: Impressions, Number One?
RIKER: It appears they're trying their best.
PICARD: As are we. For what it's worth.
DATHON (screen): Shaka, when the walls fell. Darmok.
TAMARIAN (screen): Darmok? Rai and Jiri at Lungha!
DATHON (screen): Shaka. When the walls fell.
TAMARIAN (screen): Zima at Anzo. Zima and Bakor.
DATHON (screen): Darmok at Tanagra.
TAMARIAN (screen): Shaka! Mirab, his sails unfurled.
DATHON (screen): Darmok.
TAMARIAN (screen): Mirab.
DATHON (screen): Temarc! The river Temarc.
DATHON (screen): Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra.
RIKER: Block their transporter with the shields! Extend to maximum range!
WORF: Not enough time.
RIKER: Where is he?
DATA: The Tamarians have transported Captain Picard to the planet surface along with their own captain.
RIKER: Riker to O'Brien.
DATA: It will not be possible to transport, sir. The Tamarian ship has created a particle scattering field on the planet's ionosphere.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard. Captain, do you read me? Can we compensate?
DATA: No, sir. The Tamarians are projecting a particle sustaining beam into the upper atmosphere. The result is a hyperionization that virtually disrupts all EM and subspace carriers.
RIKER: Then they can't communicate with their man either. They won't be able to beam anyone through the field.
DATA: That is correct. However, they have left sensor frequencies clear.
RIKER: Then they'll be able to tell what's going on. Analysis, Mister Worf. What the hell is going on?
WORF: A contest, perhaps. Between champions. Our captain against theirs.
RIKER: Theirs was armed.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad.
PICARD: You want to fight with me? Is that it? A challenge?
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad.
PICARD: I don't know who or what Darmok and Jalad are, but I certainly didn't come here to start a war.
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra.
PICARD: Sorry, Captain.
DATHON: Shaka. When the walls fell.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors show Captain Picard and the Tamarian in apparent good health, approximately twenty meters from each other.
RIKER: Hail the Tamarian ship.
WORF: On screen.
RIKER: You are holding our captain. I want him released.
TAMARIAN (screen): Darmok at Tanagra.
RIKER: Your action could be interpreted as an act of war.
TAMARIAN (screen): Kiteo. His eyes closed. Chenza at court. The court of silence. Chenza!
RIKER: Is there any way to get through to them?
DATA: Not without further study.
RIKER: Close the channel, Mister Worf.
WORF: Gladly, sir.
RIKER: Worf, I want you to assemble a security team, take a shuttle down to the planet, bring back the captain.
WORF: Aye, Commander.
DATA: Sir, the Tamarians are fully capable of stopping a shuttle.
RIKER: I'm aware of that. But disrupting our transporter beam and firing on a shuttle are two entirely different things. I'm betting they're not going to push it that far.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Shaka. When the walls fell.
PICARD: Shaka indeed. What now, Captain? Will you attack me in my sleep? If I don't freeze to death first.
DATHON: Darmok of Kanza. Jalad of the Kituay.
PICARD: Picard of the Federation. Of the starship Enterprise. Of the planet Earth.
DATHON: Kadir beneath Mo Moteh.
DATHON: Temba.
PICARD: Temba? What does that mean? Fire? Does Temba mean fire?
DATHON: Temba. His arms wide.
PICARD: Temba is a person? His arms wide. Because he's holding them apart in, in generosity. In giving. In taking.
DATHON: Temba. His arms wide.
PICARD: Thank you. Thank you. First Officer's log, supplemental. I am sending a shuttlecraft to find Captain Picard, gambling that the Tamarians will sit tight rather than risk an exchange of phaser fire.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: The positron density is point zero one three.

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): Electron concentration seven point nine five. Particle gradient, four over seven. We are two hundred and fifty kilometers from the planet's surface.
DATA: Commander, the shuttle has reached the E region of the planet's ionosphere.
RIKER: How long can we maintain communication?
DATA: The scattering layer induced by the Tamarians is concentrated in the upper D region. The shuttle will reach that area in approximately two minutes.
RIKER: The Tamarian ship?
DATA: Unchanged, sir. They appear to be making no attempt to stop us.
RIKER: Maybe we called their bluff. Status, Mister Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Navigational, life-support, propulsion normal.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Onboard systems do not appear to be disrupted by the field, but I can barely read you, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged. Maintain

[Bridge]
RIKER: Communications as long as conditions permit.
DATA: Commander. I am reading a power surge in the Tamarian plasma reactor.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf! Evasive maneuver sequence delta!

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER (voiceover): Maneuver sequence delta.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the shuttle has been hit.
RIKER: Damage?
DATA: The starboard nacelle has been rendered inoperable.
RIKER: That's all? Riker to Worf.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER (voiceover): Report.
WORF: Starboard thrusters destroyed. I may be able to land but I will not be able to take off.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood. Return to the Enterprise, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Enough to turn them back, but not enough to hurt them.
DATA: Yes, sir. The phaser pulse appears to have been carefully attenuated for just that effect.
RIKER: Nice shooting.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure I can punch up the annular confinement beam enough to transport the captain through the field, but it's going to take me at least a full day to do it.
TROI: Captain Picard could be dead by then.
WORF: I do not believe so. I have confidence in his ability as a warrior. He will be victorious.
TROI: You're still assuming this is some sort of a challenge ritual. We can't be certain of that.
RIKER: Agreed. We're only making educated guesses about their motivations, no more than that.
WORF: Then why do we wait? If we attack the ship now, they will not be able to maintain their scattering field.
RIKER: Which might start a shooting match, and for all we know, a war, and we still might not be able to save the captain.
WORF: It would end this stalemate.
RIKER: It's too much of a risk. I'll take that course when it's the last one left. Who the hell are these people? There's got to be some way to get through to them.
DATA: As I have said, with further study it may be possible
RIKER: Then do it. Deanna, help him. I want something by oh nine hundred hours.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: Now, where have you gone to, my friend?
PICARD: Forgive the intrusion, Captain, but I need some answers.

[Data's quarters]
DATHON (screen): Darmok at Tanagra.
TAMARIAN (screen): Shaka! Mirab, his sails unfurled.
DATHON (screen): Darmok.
TAMARIAN (screen): Mirab.
DATA: Freeze. Darmok.
TROI: Darmok. Well, it seems to be a point of contention between them. Perhaps something the Tamarian captain proposed that the First Officer didn't like.
DATA: The apparent emotional dynamic does seem to support that assumption. As with the other terms used by the Tamarian, this appears to be a proper noun. The name clearly carries a meaning for them.
TROI: Computer, search for the term Darmok in all linguistic databases for this sector.
COMPUTER: Searching. Darmok is the name of a seventh dynasty emperor on Kanda Four. A mytho-historical hunter on Shantil Three. A colony on Malindi Seven. A frozen dessert on Tazna Five. A
TROI: Stop search. Computer, how many entries are there for Darmok?
COMPUTER: Forty seven.
TROI: All our technology and experience, our universal translator, our years in space, contacts with more alien cultures than I can even remember.
DATA: I have encountered one thousand, seven hundred fifty four non-human races during my tenure with Starfleet.
TROI: And we still can't even say hello to these people.
DATA: Correct.
TROI: A single word can lead to tragedy. One word misspoken or misunderstood. And that could happen here, Data, if we fail.
DATA: Replay at time index one four four.
DATHON (screen): Darmok at Tanagra.
DATA: Freeze. Computer, search for the term Tanagra. All databases.
COMPUTER: Searching. Tanagra. The ruling family on Gallos Two. A ceremonial drink on Lerishi Four. An island-continent on Shantil Three
TROI: Stop. Shantil Three. Computer, cross-reference the last entry with the previous search index.
COMPUTER: Darmok is the name of a mytho-historical hunter on Shantil Three.
TROI: I think we've got something.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: A captain's log?
DATHON: Darmok!
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra!
PICARD: I was curious. I meant no harm.
DATHON: Shaka! Temba! His arms wide. Temba.
PICARD: Enough! I'm not going to fight you. You'll just have to
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra.
DATHON: Temba. His arms wide.
PICARD: I'll go along with that.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, sensors are picking up an electromagnetic disturbance approaching the Captain's position.
RIKER: Analysis?
WORF: A variable induction field. Possibly a life form.
RIKER: How close is it to the Captain?
WORF: The field is erratic, appearing and disappearing, but it appears to be moving toward him.
RIKER: Attacking?

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
RIKER (voiceover): How close are we on that transporter?
LAFORGE: Two hours, maybe three.
RIKER (voiceover): I want the Captain out of there now.
LAFORGE: That's not very likely, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't want to hear that, Commander.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lefler, what's the resonance frequency?
LEFLER: Point three four over standard.
LAFORGE: I want a resolution of point five three at the very least. Commander, I'll need about two more minutes.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): But there's a good chance this isn't going to work.
WORF: If it fails
RIKER: I know. We will have tipped our hand to the Tamarians. But it's a chance we have to take.
WORF: Agreed.
RIKER: La Forge. Proceed.
LAFORGE (voiceover): We're on it. La Forge out.
RIKER: Riker to transporter room one.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien here, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Stand by, Mister O'Brien.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Mirab, his sails unfurled?
PICARD: Come on.
DATHON: Shaka. When the walls fell.
DATHON: Shaka, when the walls fell.
PICARD: Shaka. You said that before. When I couldn't build a fire. Is that a failure? An inability to do something?
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad
PICARD: At Tanagra. I remember the words but I don't understand.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Matrix levels?
LEFLER: Annular convergence four three nine point two oh five. Confinement resolution point five two seven.
LAFORGE: That isn't going do it. Increase thermal input coefficient to one hundred fifty percent.
LEFLER: Increasing now.
RIKER (voiceover): Status, La Forge.
LAFORGE: We're almost there, Commander. Lefler, shunt the overload to the phase transition sequencers in transporter one.
LEFLER: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: La Forge to O'Brien.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Confirm phase sequencer linkage.
O'BRIEN: Link confirmed. Ready whenever you are, sir.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Uzani, his army at Lashmir.
PICARD: At Lashmir? Was it like this at Lashmir? A similar situation to the one we're facing here?
DATHON: Uzani. His army with fist open.
PICARD: A strategy, with fist open. With fist open.
DATHON: His army, with fist closed.
PICARD: With fist closed. An army with fist open to lure the enemy. With fist closed to attack? That's how you communicate, isn't it? By citing example. By metaphor. Uzani's army with fist open.
DATHON: Sokath. His eyes uncovered!
PICARD: No!

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got a piece of him, Commander, but that's all.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Boost the confinement beam.

[Engineering]
LEFLER: One fifty seven over standard.
LAFORGE: It's as solid as it'll go, Commander.

[Bridge]
WORF: The Tamarian and the entity are in close proximity. The Tamarian's lifesigns are fluctuating.
RIKER: The scattering field is still in full force. What the hell is wrong with them? Their sensors can read what's going on as well as ours can. Riker to O'Brien. Report.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The field's still deflecting the signal. There just isn't enough of him, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Open a channel to the Tamarian ship.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Your captain is under attack. Drop your particle field.
TAMARIAN (screen): Kailash. When it rises.
WORF: They have closed the channel.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): O'Brien to Bridge.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I can't hold him, Commander.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Shaka.
PICARD: when the walls fell. First Officer's log, stardate 45048.8. Our attempt to transport Captain Picard back to the ship has failed. My options are narrowing and my patience is all but gone.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Here's the situation on El-Adrel. The entity has moved off several hundred meters.
CRUSHER: Captain Picard's bioscan readings are stable. The Tamarian's are not.
TROI: He may be injured.
RIKER: If the entity decides to attack again, the Captain may be facing it alone.
LAFORGE: The transporter's out of the question. The Tamarian ship has deepened the scattering field to the D region of the ionosphere. There's no getting through.
WORF: Unless we attack the ship itself.
RIKER: Are you able to pinpoint the source of their particle beam?
LAFORGE: They're using a polarity coil generator located aft of their warp drive. It's pretty heavily shielded.
RIKER: Could we get through with our phasers?
LAFORGE: Not with the first spread. It'd take a couple of hits.
RIKER: That's not good enough. We need to knock out the scattering field in one shot and have the Captain back on the Enterprise before they know what happened.
LAFORGE: If we selectively target the amplification pathways around the generator, it should be just as effective. And we can do it in one burst.
RIKER: How long will it take to set up?
LAFORGE: Worf and I would have to adjust the pre-fire chamber. That'll give us the focus we need. A few hours?
RIKER: Make it so.
RIKER: I would prefer to find a peaceful solution. If we could talk our way out of this one, that much the better.
TROI: Unfortunately, it may not be that simple.
RIKER: What did you find out?
DATA: The Tamarian ego structure does not seem to allow what we normally think of as self-identity. Their ability to abstract is highly unusual. They seem to communicate through narrative imagery by reference to the individuals and places which appear in their mytho-historical accounts.
TROI: It's as if I were to say to you, Juliet on her balcony.
CRUSHER: An image of romance.
TROI: Exactly. Imagery is everything to the Tamarians. It embodies their emotional states, their very thought processes. It's how they communicate, and it's how they think.
RIKER: If we know how they think, shouldn't we be able to get something across to them?
DATA: No, sir. The situation is analogous to understanding the grammar of a language but none of the vocabulary.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know who Juliet was or what she was doing on that balcony, the image alone wouldn't have any meaning.
TROI: That's correct. For instance, we know that Darmok was a great hero, a hunter, and that Tanagra was an island, but that's it. Without the details, there's no understanding.
DATA: It is necessary for us to learn the narrative from which the Tamarians drawing their imagery. Given our current relations, that does not appear likely.

[Planet surface]
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra.
PICARD: Our situation is similar to theirs. I understand that. But I need to know more. You must tell me more about Darmok and Jalad. Tell me. You used the words, 'Temba, his arms wide' when you gave me the knife and the fire. Could that mean give? Temba, his arms wide. Darmok. Give me more about Darmok.
DATHON: Darmok on the ocean.
PICARD: Darmok. The ocean. Darmok on the ocean. A metaphor? For being alone? Isolated? Darmok on the ocean.
PICARD: Are you all right?
DATHON: Kiazi's children, their faces wet.
PICARD: Temba, his arms open. Give me more about Darmok on the ocean.
DATHON: Tanagra on the ocean. Darmok at Tanagra.
PICARD: At Tanagra. A country? Tanagra on the ocean. An island. Temba, his arms wide.
DATHON: Jalad on the ocean. Jalad at Tanagra.
PICARD: Jalad at Tanagra. He went to the same island as Darmok. Darmok and Jalad Tanagra.
DATHON: The beast at Tanagra.
PICARD: The beast? There was a creature at Tanagra? Darmok and Jalad, the beast of Tanagra. They arrived separately. They struggled together against a common foe, the beast at Tanagra. Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra.
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad on the ocean.
PICARD: They left together. Darmok and Jalad on the ocean.
DATHON: The ocean. Zinda! His face black, his eyes red. Callimas at Bahar.
PICARD: You hoped this would happen, didn't you? You knew there was a dangerous creature on this planet and you knew from the tale of Darmok that a danger shared might sometimes bring two people together. Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra. You and me, here, at El-Adrel.
DATHON: Kira at Bashi. Temba, his arms wide.
PICARD: My turn? No, I'm not much of a story teller. Besides, you wouldn't understand. Shaka. when the walls fell. Perhaps that doesn't matter. You want to hear it anyway. There's a story, a very ancient one, from Earth. I'll try and remember it. Gilgamesh, a king. Gilgamesh, a king, at Uruk. He tormented his subjects. He made them angry. They cried out aloud, send us a companion for our king. Spare us from his madness. Enkidu, a wild man from the forest, entered the city. They fought in the temple. They fought in the street. Gilgamesh defeated Enkidu. They became great friends. Gilgamesh and Enkidu at Uruk.
DATHON: At Uruk.
PICARD: The new friends went out into the desert together, where the great bull of heaven was killing men by the hundreds. Enkidu caught the bull by the tail. Gilgamesh struck it with his sword.
DATHON: Gilgamesh.
PICARD: They were victorious. But Enkidu fell to the ground, struck down by the gods. And Gilgamesh wept bitter tears, saying, 'he who was my companion through adventure and hardship, is gone forever. First Officer's log, supplemental. Despite the risk of war, I have no choice but to break the stalemate.

[Bridge]
WORF: Phasers nearly ready, sir.
RIKER: Stand by to fire, Mister Worf.
DATA: Commander. The Tamarian's bioscan is becoming unreadable. He may be dead, sir.
RIKER: If we know that, so do the Tamarians. Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
RIKER: I need those phasers.
DATA: Sir, sensors are tracking the entity. It is approaching Captain Picard's position.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: I understand your sacrifice, Captain. Unfortunately, if our friend out there has its way, no one will ever know what you tried to do.

[Bridge]
DATA: Nine meters and closing. The energy output of the entity has doubled, Commander. Six meters.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge. You have phasers.
RIKER: Fire!
WORF: Their particle beam emitters are inoperative, sir.
DATA: Scattering field is down, sir.
RIKER: O'Brien, energize.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: We got him, Commander.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Maximum shields.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Red alert!
WORF: Starboard shields holding at fifty two percent. Forward shields are gone.
RIKER: Let's get out of here.
DATA: That may not be possible, sir. The starboard nacelle sustained a direct hit. Warp engines are offline.
RIKER: Go to impulse. Back us off.
WORF: They are matching our maneuvers, sir, and firing.
RIKER: Return fire, Mister Worf. Full phasers.
WORF: Firing, sir.
WORF: Their shields are holding. They are firing again. Our shields have failed.
DATA: Commander, we cannot survive another hit.
PICARD: Hail the Tamarian ship.
WORF: Aye, Captain.
TAMARIAN (screen): Zinda! His face black, his eyes red
PICARD: Temarc! The river Temarc in winter.
TAMARIAN (screen): Darmok?
PICARD: And Jalad. At Tanagra. Darmok and Jalad on the ocean.
TAMARIAN (screen): Sokath, his eyes open!
PICARD: The beast at Tanagra. Uzani, his army. Shaka when the walls fell.
TAMARIAN (screen): Picard and Dathon at El-Adrel. Mirab, with sails unfurled.
PICARD: Temba, his arms open.
TAMARIAN (screen): Temba at rest.
PICARD: Thank you.
DATA: Power has been restored, sir.
RIKER: New friends, Captain?
PICARD: I can't say, Number One. But at least they're not new enemies.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I hope I'm not intruding, Captain.
PICARD: No, of course not, Number One. Please.
RIKER: Damage reports ready for your review.
PICARD: Thank you.
RIKER: Greek, sir?
PICARD: Oh, the Homeric Hymns. One of the root metaphors of our own culture.
RIKER: For the next time we encounter the Tamarians?
PICARD: More familiarity with our own mythology might help us to relate to theirs. The Tamarian was willing to risk all of us just for the hope of communication, connection. Now the door is open between our peoples. That commitment meant more to him than his own life. Thank you, Number One.

[Barber's shop]
MOT: there's a time when you want to call a Romulan's bluff and there's a time when you don't. Wouldn't you say?
PICARD: Well, one does not always have the luxury
MOT: You've got to choose your time and place with them. True or false?
PICARD: Yes, wherever possible.
MOT: So, this time you were lucky. I suppose all's well that ends well but if I'd been in your shoes
PICARD: Well, you know, that really does look very nice, Mister Mot. I think that will be sufficient.
MOT: Hold on There. I must tell you, Captain, Will Riker was in for a trim yesterday and he agrees with me a hundred per cent.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes?
RIKER (voiceover): Sorry to interrupt.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're receiving an emergency distress signal from the Solarion Four colony.

[Barber's shop]
MOT: Uh oh. That's right along the Cardassian border.
PICARD: Lay in a new course. I'm on my way.
MOT: I told him we shouldn't colonize so close to the Cardassians.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: The signal ended abruptly at oh four five five. Unable to raise them on subspace.
PICARD: Hail them on upper and lower band frequencies, Mister Worf.
WORF: I've tried. No response.
PICARD: Time to the Solarion system?
DATA: Twenty six minutes, Captain.
PICARD: I understand you've been discussing alternative adversarial engagement strategy with Mister Mot.
RIKER: It would be more accurate to say he was discussing them with me. He's the best barber in Starfleet. What can you do?
WORF: Sir, receiving another signal of a vessel leaving orbit of Solarion Four. New frequency, low band, audio only.
PICARD: Open a channel.
MAN (voiceover): This is the Bajora. We claim responsibility for the destruction of the Federation colony on Solarion Four. As long as we are without our homeland, no one will be safe in this sector.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45076.3. We have arrived at Lya Station Alpha with survivors from Solarion Four. Admiral Kennelly has rendezvoused to discuss the Bajoran terrorist attack.

[Observation lounge]
KENNELLY: Sorry.
PICARD: Ginger tea with honey, eighty degrees Celsius.
KENNELLY: Ginger tea?
PICARD: My Aunt Adele's cure for the common cold.
KENNELLY: Common, hell. I picked this up from the Cardassian liaison last weekend. It's some damn virus they've sicked on me.
PICARD: Did he have anything to say about this attack?
KENNELLY: It's the same old story for the Cardassians. They've had terrorist problems ever since they annexed the Bajoran home world forty years ago.
PICARD: But in forty years, they've never attacked a Federation target.
KENNELLY: A new militant splinter group has broken away from the Bajoran settlement camps. The leader's name is Orta. Apparently he's willing to do whatever he has to to get attention.
PICARD: And our response?
KENNELLY: Listen, Jean-Luc, I'm the first to say that the Bajora deserve attention. Chased off their own planet by the Cardassians, forced to wander the galaxy, settling wherever they can find room. It's tragic.
PICARD: On many worlds we've been to, they are isolated, treated as pariahs.
KENNELLY: The Federation is sympathetic to their cause, but they're not helping themselves with an attack like this. That's what I want you to communicate to them.
PICARD: But this could be done through diplomatic channels, Admiral. What do you really want of us?
KENNELLY: Find this terrorist leader, Orta, and get him back where he belongs any way you can.
PICARD: Any way I can?
KENNELLY: The Federation has dozens of settlements in that sector. We can not allow the violence to continue.
PICARD: And what do I have to offer Orta that might persuade him to cooperate?
KENNELLY: Amnesty.
PICARD: Admiral.
KENNELLY: And a promise that we will immediately begin to address this issue with the Cardassians. Quietly, behind the scenes, using every legitimate means possible. But the Bajora must be patient.
PICARD: Admiral, they've endured generations of sympathy and promises. How can I believe this Orta will be satisfied with more of the same?
KENNELLY: It's your job to see to it that he does, Jean-Luc.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
RIKER (voiceover): Have you approved

[Transporter room]
RIKER: The transfer of a new officer to the Enterprise?
PICARD (voiceover): Negative
RIKER: Well, we've got one, waiting to beam aboard complete with orders.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER (voiceover): Ensign Ro Laren.
PICARD: Ro Laren? From the Wellington?
RIKER (voiceover): The same one, sir. Shall I tell her there's been some mistake?
PICARD: Stand by, Commander.
KENNELLY: I wrote the orders. I thought she might be valuable to you.
PICARD: Admiral, respectfully. I would appreciate consulting rights on the assignment of a new officer, especially one with the record of Ro Laren.
KENNELLY: She's Bajoran.
PICARD: There are other Bajorans in Starfleet. Assign one of them.
KENNELLY: I've discussed this situation with her, and I am convinced that she is the right one for this job.
PICARD: After what happened on Garon Two, she has no business serving on any starship, let alone the flagship, my ship.
KENNELLY: You're taking her, Captain. It's been arranged. I can't tell you how difficult it was to get her out of prison.
PICARD: It's that important to you?
KENNELLY: It's that important to the mission.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Go ahead.
PICARD: Proceed with the transport.
RIKER (voiceover): Sir?
PICARD: I'll fill you in later.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: I hope you and I don't regret this, Admiral.
KENNELLY: You can handle her, Captain, if anyone can.

[Transporter room]
RO: Ensign Ro Laren reporting as ordered, Commander.
RIKER: You will follow Starfleet uniform code aboard this ship, Ensign.

[Ready room]
RIKER: There will be members of this crew who will not want to serve with Ensign Laren, sir.
PICARD: They'll have to learn to live with it.
RIKER: I intend to demand the highest level of performance from her.
PICARD: I would expect nothing less. It won't be for long, Will. Come.
PICARD: Yes, Ensign Laren, please have a seat.
RO: Ensign Ro, sir.
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
RO: The Bajoran custom has the family name first, the individual's second. I am properly addressed as Ensign Ro.
PICARD: I'm sorry, I didn't know.
RO: No, there's no reason you should. It's an old custom. Most Bajora these days accept the distortion of their names in order to assimilate. I do not.
PICARD: I wish to be candid with you, Ensign.
RO: Please.
PICARD: I'm fully aware of your Starfleet record, your problems on other ships, and the incident on Garon Two that led to your court martial. And I'm concerned about your presence on this delicate mission.
RO: I don't want to be here any more than you want me to be here, sir.
RIKER: Then why did you accept this assignment?
RO: If I may be equally candid? It's better than prison.
RIKER: Better than prison? There are officers who wait years to serve on this ship.
RO: Being called back into Starfleet was not my idea.
RIKER: Nor ours.
PICARD: Nevertheless, we will all be serving together. Commander Riker and I have expectations of you.
RO: Captain, I know the routine. You don't have to worry about me. We're stuck with each other. So let's just get this over with as quickly as possible and we can go our own separate ways, okay?
PICARD: Dismissed.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the Valo system on the outskirts of Cardassian territory, where many Bajorans have resettled.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: There are dozens of Bajoran camps on the three class-M planets. I suggest we may want to begin on Valo Three, where an adhoc leader named Jas Holza lives. The Federation has had several dealings with him.
CRUSHER: I met Holza at a symposium a few years ago.
PICARD: What can you tell us about him, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I found him to be a very concerned leader and a good spokesman for his people. And a terrific dancer. No, really, I'm serious. At a reception afterwards.
TROI: At least this man has genuine experience in diplomacy.
PICARD: And that's a big advantage on this mission. Very well. Mister Data, will you contact Holza, arrange a meeting?
DATA: Sir.
RIKER: Ensign Ro, you're familiar with this star system. You'll take the conn. Is there a problem, Ensign?
RO: You're wasting your time. Holza is nobody. He's the token Bajoran that respectable people invite to symposiums and diplomatic soirees. But he has no real influence among my people.
DATA: Ensign, whom do you suggest we speak to?
RO: Don't you understand? These are desperate people ready to martyr themselves. They don't want to talk.
WORF: This ship is prepared to defend itself if necessary.
RO: Oh, it will be. Don't fool yourself. This mission will end in bloodshed.
PICARD: Well, let's hope that you're mistaken, Ensign. But can you point us at the right individual, as Mister Data suggested?
RO: I would go to the camp on the southern continent of Valo Two. Find a man named Keeve Falor. He has no diplomatic experience. And he won't ask you to dance.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I read about the achievements of the ancient Bajoran civilization in my fifth grade reader. They were architects and artists, builders and philosophers when humans were not yet standing erect. Now I see how history has rewarded them.

[Bajoran camp]
RO: This used to be me.
KEEVE: Baleekam. Balleek, balleek. Baleekam! Baleek.
KEEVE: Ro Laren. It's been a long time.
RO: Keeve Falor, Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Commander Data and Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: I'm pleased you agreed to meet with us, Mister Keeve.
KEEVE: You honor me by the proper use of my name, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign Ro has educated me.
KEEVE: Has she? I'm pleased you still remember. Let me show you our camp. We are not a violent race, Captain. Just passionate about our cause. And that passion has led some to take up arms.
PICARD: Do you know where we can find Orta?
KEEVE: I'm afraid not.
PICARD: Can you help us locate him?
KEEVE: I'm sorry, I don't wish to help you. Don't misunderstand. I for one believe the raid on the Federation outpost was poor judgment. You are innocent bystanders, and I cannot condone violence against those who are not our enemies.
PICARD: Then I don't understand why you are unwilling?
KEEVE: Because you are innocent bystanders. You were innocent bystanders for decades as the Cardassians took our homes, as they violated and tortured our people in the most hideous ways imaginable, as we were forced to flee.
PICARD: We were saddened by those events but they occurred within the designated borders of the Cardassian Empire.
KEEVE: And the Federation is pledged not to interfere in the internal affairs of others. How convenient that must be for you, to turn a deaf ear to those who suffer behind a line on a map.
PICARD: Well, I'm not here to debate Federation policy with you, but I can offer you assistance.
KEEVE: Simply because of one terrorist attack? Perhaps I should have known that. We should have attacked the Federation long ago. What do you think of that, Ro?
RO: I think you're a small man who feels a rush of power in his belly and enjoys it far too much, Keeve. Stop talking and listen.
PICARD: We've had our problems with the Cardassians too, but now that we have a treaty, we're in a position to help. Your people have been forced to resettle all over the quadrant. But now we can make a legitimate case with the Cardassians that this is not an isolated problem. We can work diplomatically on your behalf. But first, these terrorist attacks must end.
KEEVE: We live in different universes, you and I. Yours is about diplomacy, politics, strategy. Mine is about blankets. If we were to exchange places for one night, you might better understand.
PICARD: Mister Data, see to it that the replicators provide a blanket for every man, woman and child before nightfall.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, determine what these people may have in the way of emergency needs and provide for them.
WORF: Yes, sir.
KEEVE: Thank you. Return to your ship. I will contact you when I have any information that might be of assistance to you. Ensign.
PICARD: You were helpful.
RO: The blankets were helpful. Nothing I said mattered.
PICARD: In an age when their technology should be able to clothe and feed all of them, that they should have to live like this.
RO: I couldn't, and I wouldn't. That's one reason I ran away. They're lost, defeated. I will never be.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45077.8. Keeve Falor has kept his promise and directed us toward the third moon of Valo One, where we will meet tomorrow with the terrorist leader, Orta.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Do you mind if we join you?
RO: Yes.
LAFORGE: I'll tell you one thing. If I find myself on an away team with Ensign Ro, I won't turn my back on her.
GUINAN: Perhaps the Captain thought she'd be valuable on the mission?
LAFORGE: That was orders. Had to be. She doesn't belong here. She doesn't even belong in the uniform, as far as I'm concerned.
GUINAN: Really?
LAFORGE: Really.
GUINAN: Sounds like someone I'd like to know. Excuse me.
GUINAN: Am I disturbing you?
RO: Yes.
GUINAN: Good. You look like someone who wants to be disturbed.
RO: I'd rather be alone.
GUINAN: Oh, no you wouldn't.
RO: I beg your pardon?
GUINAN: If you wanted to be alone, you would've stayed in your quarters. The only reason to come here is to be amongst people.
RO: Who are you?
GUINAN: My name is Guinan. I tend bar, and I listen.
RO: Heard anything interesting?
GUINAN: Everyone's talking about you.
RO: Heard anything interesting?
GUINAN: Mmm hmm.
RO: Well, it's all true.
GUINAN: I believe truth is in the eye of the beholder.
RO: Isn't that supposed to be beauty?
GUINAN: Truth, beauty. It works for a lot of things. They say you never told the true story about Galon Two. They also say you didn't defend yourself at your court martial.
RO: What was to defend? I didn't follow orders. Eight members of the away team died.
GUINAN: Your fault?
RO: Yeah, my fault.
GUINAN: So you sit alone in crowded rooms staring at your drink. I think you enjoy it.
RO: I enjoy it?
GUINAN: You work so hard at torturing yourself, I can only think you must enjoy it.
RO: Who are you?
GUINAN: I told you. I'm Guinan. I tend bar, and I listen.
RO: You're not like any bartender I ever met before.
GUINAN: And you're not like any Starfleet officer I've ever met before, but that sounds like the beginning of a very interesting friendship.
RO: I don't stay anywhere long enough to make friends.
GUINAN: Too late. You just did. Excuse me.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Ensign Ro.
RO: Go ahead.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Subspace communication coming in for you, Ensign.
RO: Thank you.

[Ro's quarters]
RO: Computer, direct subspace transmission to monitor.
KENNELLY (screen): Your report, Ensign.
RO: Everything is going exactly as you predicted, Admiral.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Any indications of weapons or vessels beneath the surface?
RIKER: The composition of the moon's crust is blocking the sensors.
PICARD: Which is very likely why they chose this moon for their base of operations.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We're on a timetable here. Where's Ro?
PICARD: Captain Picard to Ensign Ro.
DATA: Computer, locate Ensign Ro.
COMPUTER: Ensign Ro is not on board the Enterprise.
WORF: Check the transport log.
COLLINS: She beamed down almost six hours ago, sir.
PICARD: Any activity at the meeting site?
CHIEF: No, sir. They didn't show up.
RIKER: What the hell is going on?
PICARD: Prepare to transport us to the same location Ensign Ro beamed to. Mister Worf, phasers.

[Moon caves]
DATA: I am picking up molecular displacement traces. That suggests movement through this area during the last ten hours.
PICARD: See if we can determine their direction. Standard search pattern.
WORF: Maintain tricorder security link.
PICARD: Mister Worf, you come with me.
TROI: Data, I'm picking up energy fluctuations over here. Troi to Picard. Captain, acknowledge.
DATA: Data to Picard. Data to Worf.
BAJORAN: Hold it.
ORTA: Captain Picard, I am Orta. Please forgive my appearance. Unfortunately, some years ago, as a guest of the Cardassians, my face was mutilated. My vocal cords were cut.
PICARD: It was not necessary to abduct us.
ORTA: I am sorry, but after speaking with Ro Laren, I decided that it was.
PICARD: Then she has done us both a disservice. I am committed to peace.
ORTA: I am not at all interested in peace. And I am not convinced you are, either.
RO: Captain, I did not come here to undermine this mission.
PICARD: Whatever your motives, you've already done enough to damage these negotiations.
RO: I came here to convince these people to listen to you. I didn't want this to end in bloodshed.
PICARD: There will be no bloodshed.
RO: You don't know all the facts, sir.
PICARD: Then perhaps you would share them with me, Ensign.
ORTA: All is not what it seems to be, Captain. Perhaps someone is using you to get to me. Perhaps you are a victim of this deception as well. I do not know.
PICARD: Deception?
ORTA: Your mission was to seek out the Bajoran terrorists who destroyed the Federation settlement on Solarion Four.
PICARD: Yes.
ORTA: As I have informed Ro Laren, it was not the Bajora.

[Bridge]
WORF: He admits responsibility for dozens of attacks on Cardassian targets. Why should we believe him about Solarion Four?
RO: He has no reason to lie.
WORF: He fears our reprisal.
TROI: I perceived no fear or deception from him.
WORF: If they did not attack Solarion Four, then who did? And why would anyone want to falsely implicate the Bajora?
DATA: Perhaps someone wanted to draw us into the conflict.
RO: What would anyone gain by doing that?
PICARD: Ensign Ro, may I see you in my Ready room?
RO: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You do not leave this ship without authorisation.
RO: Captain, I'm sorry, but I
PICARD: This is not a discussion. You're restricted to your quarters for the remainder of this mission. Dismissed.

[Ro's quarters]
RO: What?
GUINAN: Hello, it's me, Guinan. I heard you got grounded.
RO: I really don't feel like talking right now.
GUINAN: Come on, sure you do.
RO: Why is it, every time I tell you something, you tell me I mean the exact opposite?
GUINAN: Because you're one of those people who's got their poles reversed. Do you want to talk about it?
RO: It's nothing you can help me with.
GUINAN: How do you know until you try?
RO: Look, I got myself into this. I'm just trying to figure a way out. That's all. Without anyone getting killed this time. Seems like everybody's just pulling my strings, you know? Like I've got no control.
GUINAN: For people like you and me, who've lost their homes, sometimes that's the way life feels.
RO: I'm in trouble. There's more going on here than anybody on this ship realizes. It's more than I know how to deal with. And I really don't know who to trust anymore.
GUINAN: Including yourself?
RO: Especially myself.
GUINAN: You know, a very long time ago, I got into some serious trouble too. And I mean serious. And I'd probably still be there if I hadn't trusted one man.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
GUINAN: Ensign Ro has some things she'd like to talk to you about.
PICARD: Ensign Ro has been confined to her quarters.
GUINAN: Well, she can go back to her quarters when she's done.
PICARD: Guinan, I don't know why you are involved in this, but
GUINAN: She's my friend.
PICARD: Please sit down. Guinan is very selective about whom she calls a friend.
RO: Sir, when I'm finished telling you what I have to tell you, I'm probably going to end up back in the stockade one way or the other. And if that's how this has to be, then I just can't do this anymore.
PICARD: What can you not do anymore, Ensign?
RO: Admiral Kennelly came to me in prison and told me he'd arrange to get me out if I'd go on a mission.
PICARD: I know that part.
RO: No, sir. Not this mission. One for him and only him. You were being sent to talk, to negotiate. The Admiral knew that was hopeless. My job was to give Orta an incentive.
PICARD: What kind of incentive?
RO: One that you couldn't offer. One that Starfleet couldn't offer. Orta was to end the terrorism against the Federation and return with his people to the camps. In exchange he would get weapons, ships, things that would really make a difference against the Cardassians in the future.
PICARD: I find that almost impossible to believe. That Admiral Kennelly would consider supplying weapons to the terrorists?
RO: If you ask him, he'll deny it. But it's true. I didn't leave the ship without authorisation, Captain. I received it from the Admiral last night.
PICARD: You have been in contact with Admiral Kennelly during this mission?
RO: Yes, sir. The subspace log can confirm that part of it at least.
PICARD: Arming these people is a violation of everything that the Federation stands for. Even you cannot be blind to that.
RO: No, sir, I'm not. But this was something I had to do. You see, Captain, when I was seven years old I was given a piece of sugar candy and I was led by a Cardassian into a room where my father was sitting. And he looked at me with eyes I'd never seen. The Cardassian began to ask him questions, and during the next two hours, as I was forced to watch, my father was tortured until he died. And I remember feeling so ashamed of him as he begged for mercy. I was ashamed of him for being weak. I was ashamed of being Bajoran. Later I began to understand how misguided those feelings were. And yet somehow, they have remained a part of me. I don't want to be ashamed of my heritage any longer, Captain. I serve the Federation. But I am Bajoran. A Starfleet Admiral presented me with an opportunity to help my people in their fight against the Cardassians. I had to accept it.
PICARD: Have you made this offer to Orta?
RO: No. After he told me the Bajora hadn't attacked Solarion Four, nothing made sense anymore. I decided to wait until I could figure out what was going on.
PICARD: That was a wise choice, Ensign. It probably saved you from another court martial. Have you briefed Admiral Kennelly since we returned from the surface?
RO: No, sir. Captain, I don't know who to trust anymore. But that strange bartender of yours has a way of getting to you, and she said that you were her friend.
PICARD: Then we have one thing in common. Do you think that Orta would cooperate with us to determine the truth here?
RO: I think I could persuade him to.
PICARD: Good. Our orders were to find him, to bring him back to the camps any way we could. Perhaps that is exactly what we should do.
RO: And then what?
PICARD: And then watch what happens.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I have become convinced that we are somehow involved in a conspiracy. I am hopeful the purpose behind it will be revealed in the next few hours.

[Bridge]
KENNELLY (screen): Well done, Captain.
PICARD: It was a team effort, Admiral. Ensign Ro was invaluable.
KENNELLY (screen): Good. What's the next step?
PICARD: The Enterprise will escort a Bajoran Antares class carrier to the Valo Three camp at oh five hundred hours. Orta and his people will be aboard.
KENNELLY (screen): Good. Keep us advised of your progress.
PICARD: Acknowledged. How's that Cardassian virus, Admiral?
KENNELLY (screen): A lot better, thank you.
PICARD: I'm pleased. We will report as soon as our mission is accomplished. Picard out.
RIKER: Ensign Ro, take us to the designated coordinates.
RO: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, keep an eye on the Cardassian border.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: The Bajoran vessel is moving up from the surface, Captain.
PICARD: On screen. Hail them, Mister Worf.
WORF: Audio channel open. The ship does not have visual capabilities.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard. We're prepared to escort you to Valo Three.
WOMAN (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain. Be advised that our ship is limited to half impulse.
PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course for Valo Three, half impulse.
RO: Aye, sir.
DATA: I am monitoring increased activity inside Cardassian space. Two ships are moving along the border heading one four two mark zero five one.
PICARD: Can you identify the class of these ships, Mister Worf?
WORF: Cardassian warships, Galor class, type three.
RIKER: Top of the line.
DATA: They are moving into a course parallel to our own, Captain.
PICARD: Yellow alert. Continue to monitor them.
RIKER: Ensign Ro, what's the closest we come to the Cardassian border on our current heading to Valo Three?
RO: Thirteen thousand, four hundred kilometers, sir.
RIKER: ETA?
RO: Eight minutes.
PICARD: That's where it will be.
DATA: The Cardassian ships are changing course, sir. They are crossing the border.
WORF: They're increasing power to their forward weapon grid.
RIKER: Red alert.
PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course to intercept the Cardassians. Mister Worf, open a channel to the Bajoran vessel.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is the Enterprise. We are moving to intercept two Cardassian warships. Maintain your present course and speed.
WOMAN (voiceover): Acknowledged, Enterprise.
WORF: The Cardassians are within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: They are hailing us, sir.
PICARD: Open a channel, Mister Worf. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. How can we help you?
DOLAK (screen): Gul Dolak, Cardassian Militia Four One. We have no argument with you, Captain.
PICARD: I'm pleased to hear that, Gul Dolak, for all of us in the Federation value the peaceful relations with our Cardassian neighbors.
DOLAK (screen): No more than we value the relations with our Federation neighbors.
PICARD: Well, now that we've established our mutual good will, what's on your mind?
DOLAK (screen): We have identified the Bajoran ship you are escorting as a terrorist carrier.
PICARD: Terrorist carrier? Are you certain?
DOLAK (screen): Most certain, Captain. It has committed many crimes against us. We know its markings well.
PICARD: Rest assured, Gul Dolak, there will be no terrorist attacks today. We are escorting the Bajoran settlers to their camp on Valo Three. You can monitor their course if you wish.
DOLAK (screen): We would request that you withdraw and leave the matter to us.
PICARD: This is neutral space, Gul Dolak. You have no jurisdiction here.
DOLAK (screen): Nor do you.
PICARD: If we withdraw, what do you intend to do with the Bajoran vessel?
DOLAK (screen): We intend to destroy it.
PICARD: I see. That puts me in a difficult position. I promised to escort these people to their camps.
DOLAK (screen): You are protecting the enemies of the Cardassian people. If you do not withdraw, we will take great offense.
PICARD: I'm sorry to offend you, Gul Dolak, but we cannot withdraw.
DOLAK (screen): We are prepared to take any steps necessary.
PICARD: Is that intended as a threat?
DOLAK (screen): It is a complaint from your Cardassian neighbors. You have one hour to withdraw.
PICARD: Advise Starfleet of our status, Mister Data. When Admiral Kennelly calls, I'll speak to him in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
PICARD: It seemed, Admiral, that they knew our course, our destination, our plan.
KENNELLY (screen): I'm sure they monitor the border at all times for terrorist activity. Their sensors must picked up Orta's ship, that's all.
PICARD: I'm not convinced of that.
KENNELLY (screen): The important thing is, what do we do now?
PICARD: Do you have any suggestions, Admiral?
KENNELLY (screen): Your top priority is to protect the Cardassian treaty.
PICARD: Sir, I see no way to protect the Cardassian peace without sacrificing the Bajorans.
KENNELLY (screen): If that's your call, I'll support it.
PICARD: No. I'm not willing to give them up.
KENNELLY (screen): I don't think you're looking at the big picture, Jean-Luc. We can't afford to lose the Cardassian treaty.
PICARD: Well, I just see a different big picture, Admiral. It looks something like this. I see the Cardassian liaison, with his Cardassian virus, coming to meet with you after the attack on Solarion Four. Now we have a common enemy, he says. The Bajoran terrorists. The Cardassians can't find them, but maybe the Federation can. I'm beginning to see that our mission has, in fact, been to expose Orta so that the Cardassians can move in and destroy him.
KENNELLY (screen): I think you've lost your perspective, Captain. We'll discuss this further when you return. For now, I'm giving you a direct order to withdraw. Kennelly out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course, bearing one eight seven mark one zero two, one quarter impulse.
RO: Aye, sir.
RIKER: He's ordered us to withdraw?
WORF: The Cardassians are moving toward the Bajoran vessel, Captain.
PICARD: Hold present course.
WORF: The Bajoran ship has been destroyed.
DATA: Subspace signal coming from Starfleet, Captain. Admiral Kennelly.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: It is on a secure channel, sir. In your ready room?
PICARD: No. Here. On screen.
KENNELLY (screen): Report.
PICARD: The Cardassians have destroyed the Bajoran ship, Admiral.
KENNELLY (screen): All hands lost?
PICARD: No, sir.
KENNELLY (screen): Survivors?
PICARD: No, sir. No one was on board.
KENNELLY (screen): What are you talking about?
PICARD: The ship was controlled from the ground. Communication was handled through a subspace relay on board the vessel.
KENNELLY (screen): This was your idea, Picard?
PICARD: Actually, no. It was Ensign Ro's idea but I fully endorsed it. I suspected that something like this might occur.
KENNELLY (screen): They're terrorists, damn it. Why in the hell would you want to protect them?
PICARD: Admiral, I am more concerned with protecting the honor and integrity of Starfleet.
KENNELLY (screen): Do you know how many of our people they killed on Solarion Four?
PICARD: The Bajorans did not attack Solarion Four.
KENNELLY (screen): Who told you that? Orta?
PICARD: Yes.
KENNELLY (screen): And you believed him?
PICARD: Admiral, Orta's ships are old and obsolete. They don't even have warp capabilities. They couldn't have reached another star system, let alone attacked one.
KENNELLY (screen): But then who's responsible?
PICARD: I would suggest you ask your friend the Cardassian liaison, Admiral. The only explanation I can think of is that the Cardassians staged it.
KENNELLY (screen): The Cardassians? Why?
PICARD: Perhaps they were hoping to find someone in Starfleet like you, Admiral, naive enough to solve their Bajoran problem for them.

[Bajoran camp]
RO: What will happen to him?
PICARD: I'm not sure. A hearing, certainly. Probably a court martial.
RO: Well, if he's sent to the stockade on Jaros Two, tell him to request a room in the east wing. The west wing gets awfully hot in the afternoons. How soon do you intend to return to Lya Station Alpha, sir?
PICARD: In a few weeks. We have some surveying to do in sector two one three oh five.
RO: Perhaps I should arrange for some other transportation back.
PICARD: Ensign, you were recruited for one mission and if you wish to be relieved of further duty, I can certainly arrange it. But I'd like you to consider remaining in Starfleet.
RO: You're not serious.
PICARD: I think it would be a shame for Starfleet to lose someone of your potential.
RO: Well, thank you, Captain, but this uniform just doesn't fit, and you know it.
PICARD: That can change.
RO: I don't think so.
PICARD: I've noticed qualities in you that could be harnessed, molded.
RO: Don't count on it.
PICARD: I think you've got a great deal to learn from Starfleet.
RO: I always thought Starfleet had a lot to learn from me, Captain.
PICARD: That is an attitude I've found common among the best officers I've ever served with. You're not one of them yet, but you could be, if you work at it.
RO: That's an interesting challenge. And I rarely refuse an interesting challenge. There would have to be one condition.
PICARD: Condition?
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Two to beam up.

[Melona colony]
CARMEN: The hospital facility will be located there, facing north in that grove of trees. And the school and the arts center will be standing there, centrally located among the residential pods.
RIKER: Very good. At this rate we'll be able to bring the next wave of colonists in in about six months. I've to tell you I envy you. This is a beautiful place to put down roots.
CARMEN: Somehow, Riker, you don't strike me as the kind that puts down roots.
RIKER: No? How do I strike you?
CARMEN: As a free spirit. An adventurer.
RIKER: An adventurer? Aren't you pioneers adventurers at heart?
CARMEN: Of course. But we also have this nesting instinct. It's exciting to find a new world but the joy comes in making it a home. Building houses, having children.
RIKER: Very interesting. I'd love to discuss this further with you. Dinner tonight?
CARMEN: If you want to share camp rations in my tent, I'd be delighted.
RIKER: Haven't we gotten you a replicator yet?
CARMEN: No, we haven't, but I've been saving my ration of dried chicken curry. It should go very nicely with that bottle of wine I happen to know you brought with you.
RIKER: This is sounding better all the time.
CARMEN: And as you know, I provide the most memorable desserts.
RIKER: My favorite part of dinner.
CRUSHER: Will? Carmen? We've been going over the schematics for the hospital. The location seems fine.
RIKER: When the Enterprise comes back tomorrow, we'll get a crew started on that.
RIKER: Carmen, have you got construction started I didn't know about?
CARMEN: No. What is that?
RIKER: Data?
DATA: I do not recognize the sound. I believe it is coming from above.
CARMEN: Will, what is it?
RIKER: Data, what's our best bet for cover?
DATA: Subterranean caverns to the east, sir. Doctor.
CARMEN: Will.
RIKER: Start gathering everybody together. We've seen this before. We know what it is. Now get moving.
RIKER: Follow him. Let's go! Come on, come on!
RIKER: No, stay together! Stay together! This way! This way! This way!
RIKER: I've got you.
CARMEN: Will, help us!
RIKER: Data! Carmen!

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance near the outpost on Melona Four.
PICARD: What kind of disturbance?
WORF: I cannot tell. We are still too far away. It could be an electrical storm.
PICARD: See if you can contact the colony.
WORF: Aye, sir. Captain, there is no response from Melona colony, but the disturbance in the atmosphere is increasing.
PICARD: How far are we?
WORF: At current speed, twenty seven hours.
PICARD: Bridge to La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here, Captain.
PICARD: Are you picking up any readings from Melona?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Something strange is going on. There are violent disruptions in the atmosphere.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp eight.

[Melona colony]
RIKER: Come on, keep moving.

[Cave]
CRUSHER: Watch your step but keep moving.
RIKER: Let's go, let's go. Keep moving. Deeper into the cave. Come on. Deeper into the cave. Keep moving.
RIKER: How much protection will this cave give us?
DATA: The refractory metal in the rock formations may act as an effective barrier.
RIKER: Let's seal off this entrance.
CRUSHER: Let's hope there's enough air in here.
RIKER: There's got to be a ventilation source somewhere. We need some light.
RIKER: How are the others?
CRUSHER: Just scrapes and bruises, I think. I'll check further. Where's Carmen?
RIKER: She didn't make it. She was trying to save an old man who'd fallen.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry.
RIKER: I think we're going to be all right in here. I'm not sure about the air supply, so stay put, don't move around. Don't expend unnecessary energy. With any luck, we'll be able to wait this thing out.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Riker to Enterprise.
DATA: Commander, the refractory metals in the rock strata may also interfere with communication.
RIKER: Data we've only seen the Crystalline Entity once before. How do you know these metals will protect us?
DATA: I am not entirely certain they will, sir.
RIKER: I was afraid you were going to say something like that.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming more intense.
PICARD: Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf.
TROI: Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily mean there's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be jamming the signal.
PICARD: I know, Counselor.
WORF: Still no response, sir.
PICARD: Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf?
WORF: Six hours.

[Cave]
CRUSHER: I've got one man unconscious. We can't stay in here much longer.
RIKER: If I open that entrance and it's still out there, we're dead.
CRUSHER: If we all stay in here, we're dead.
DATA: It has been over an hour since we heard the Entity, sir. It may be gone.
RIKER: Or it may be out there waiting for us.
RIKER: Everybody stay here.
WORF: Commander? Commander Riker, are you there?
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, I don't think I've ever seen a more beautiful sight.
LAFORGE: It's good to see you're all right, Commander. What's happened here?
RIKER: The Crystalline Entity paid us a visit. We lost two colonists, but we got the rest in here.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45122.3. We have notified Starfleet Command of our intention to pursue and investigate the Crystalline Entity. To that end, we have been joined by Doctor Kila Marr, a xenologist who has made studying the Entity her life's work.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I am Commander William Riker.
MARR: Commander, Doctor Kila Marr.
RIKER: Glad you're here.
MARR: You were on the surface during the attack?
RIKER: That's right.
MARR: Remarkable. You and your group are the only known beings ever to survive an assault by the Crystalline Entity.
RIKER: We were lucky.
MARR: I should say. And your android. He was there, too?
RIKER: Lieutenant Commander Data was there, yes.
MARR: Well, shall we get started?
RIKER: I'd be glad to show you to your quarters.

[Corridor]
MARR: Oh, Commander. A chance to talk to survivors so soon after an attack? I've been waiting years for this. I don't want to waste a moment more.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: And when we came out of the cave there was nothing left. Everywhere we looked there was complete devastation. Trees gone, nothing.
MARR: That's typical. It could take years for anything to grow again.
DATA: Doctor, I ran a full spectrographic analysis, section by section. Trace elements confirm that it is the same entity which destroyed the colony at Omicron Theta.
MARR: The Crystalline Entity seems to function like a gigantic electromagnetic collector. It needs a lot of power to keep going so it strips every form of life from the worlds it encounters and converts it all into energy.
RIKER: There's no vegetation, no insects, not even soil bacteria. It left nothing.
MARR: Except witnesses, for the first time in eleven recorded attacks. Now why, I wonder, did it spare your group?
RIKER: It didn't spare everyone, Doctor. If you'll check your reports, you'll find that two of the colonists didn't survive.
MARR: My point is that until now there have never been any survivors.
DATA: Doctor, the cave in which we hid was made of rock which contained heavy concentrations of kelbonite and fistrium. We surmise that the Entity was unable to penetrate that barrier.
MARR: I would like to do interviews with each of the survivors. Collect as much specific detail as I can of their observations.
PICARD: Of course.
MARR: And I'd like to inspect the remains of Melona Colony as soon as possible.
PICARD: Commander Data, you will accompany the Doctor to the surface.
DATA: Yes, sir.
MARR: If you don't mind, Captain, I prefer to choose my own team.
PICARD: Doctor, there is no one on this ship with more knowledge of the Crystalline Entity than Commander Data. He originated on Omicron Theta.
MARR: I am aware of his origins. I'm very much aware that his brother, Lore, worked with the Crystalline Entity, led it to Omicron Theta where it killed every living thing. I don't think it's unreasonable that I should prefer to make another choice.
PICARD: You may request additional team members, but in the best interest of this investigation, I think you should work with Commander Data.
MARR: As you wish, Captain.
PICARD: Well?
TROI: I don't think you need an empath to sense that woman's feelings. There's hostility that she seems to have transferred from Lore to Data. Perhaps you shouldn't have forced them together so soon.
PICARD: If her discomfort is going to affect her judgment or her objectivity, I need to know now.

[Cave]
DATA: Doctor, there is evidence of residual bitrious matter in the soil. It was not present before the Entity's attack.
DATA: Doctor? Doctor Marr, you have made it clear that my presence disturbs you. However, I do not see how we can achieve our task if you continue to ignore me.
MARR: Commander, I can hear everything you say to me. If there is anything worth my response, you can be sure I will not be silent.
DATA: Then I do not understand your lack of interest in the bitrious filament I mentioned.
MARR: It's old news to me. I found evidence of bitrium on the last three attack sites. It seems to be a residual that the Entity produces after it absorbs living matter. I'm actually more interested in this cave. It still amazes me that your group was spared.
DATA: As I have speculated, the presence of refractory metals
MARR: Refractory metals. Yes, I know. On two separate occasions settlers sought refuge in caves. Some of them deeper than this one. They perished anyway.
DATA: Were those caves laced with kelbonite or fistrium?
MARR: The tunnels on Forlat Three had strong deposits of kelbonite, yes.
DATA: Then perhaps the combination of the two metals prevented the Entity from
MARR: Perhaps it was you.
DATA: I do not understand.
MARR: Maybe it was your presence which made the Entity pass over the people in this cave. Did that occur to you?
DATA: I cannot see what effect my being here would have had
MARR: If you had been in contact with the Entity, if that's the reason Melona was attacked, it surely wouldn't have killed its ally.
DATA: Do you believe that I lured the Entity here?
MARR: Did you?
DATA: No, Doctor. Because Lore betrayed the colonists on Omicron Theta, you believe that I am capable of the same behavior. You are mistaken, Doctor. My programming is distinctly different from Lore's.
MARR: You don't understand. I am accusing you of collaborating with that monster!
DATA: I do understand, and I am attempting to explain to you it is impossible.
MARR: It's amazing. You can't feel anything, can you? Nothing I say to you hurts you.
DATA: That is true, Doctor.
MARR: I'm getting a slight elevation on monocaladium particulates in this cave wall. Are you making note of it?
DATA: Yes, Doctor.
MARR: My son died on Omicron Theta. He was sixteen when the colony was attacked. That is the reason I have became an expert on the Crystalline Entity. I have spent my life studying it, tracking it, and hoping someday to find it. And if I learn you have been helping that thing in any way whatsoever, I will see to it that you are disassembled piece by piece.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, Doctor. We've input all the data you collected on the surface.
MARR: Just a minute, Commander. I have some cellulose readings from soil samples that weren't included.
LAFORGE: You handle that unit like a veteran, Doctor.
MARR: One thing about spending your life gathering information, you learn your way around computers. Hydrocarbons slightly elevated, bitrious filaments in trace amounts, lanthanides, nitrates all normal. Nothing different. Everything falls within the parameters I established at the other attack sites.
DATA: Were you expecting a different result this time, Doctor?
MARR: I've never surveyed a site so soon after an attack. I thought maybe I'd find something new. Something that would make a difference.
DATA: Doctor, have you ever scanned your samples for gamma radiation?
MARR: Why would I do that?
DATA: We are seeing high energy reactions that may show up in a gamma scan.
LAFORGE: And if they do, we might find a pattern, a kind of marker left behind by the Entity. That's a good idea, Data.
MARR: Frankly, I just don't see what that would get us.
DATA: If the Entity left a residual trace of antiproton in the samples we collected, a gamma radiation scan would reveal that.
LAFORGE: Getting that readout now, Data.
DATA: If we try a logarithmic scale, we will have better resolution.
LAFORGE: There it is. Do you see it?
DATA: Yes. Doctor?
MARR: A sharp spike at ten keV. Another. A pattern.
LAFORGE: So we know the Entity leaves antiprotons behind.
MARR: If it also deposits antiprotons in space as it travels, can we detect them?
LAFORGE: Sure. We can set the ship's lateral sensors for gamma radiation.
MARR: Well, let's get to it, shall we?

[Corridor]
MARR: It seems I owe you thanks, Commander.
DATA: The thanks actually go to Doctor Clendenning on Omicron Theta who did the first experiments with gamma scans.
MARR: I've never read that. It wasn't in any of his records.
DATA: That is correct. But I possess much of his knowledge. He was working on new detectors at the time of the attack on Omicron Theta.

[Turbolift]
MARR: I'd heard that you'd been programmed with the experiences of the colonists, but frankly I find it hard to believe. Bridge.
DATA: It is true, Doctor. The contents of their logs and journals were transferred into my memory cells. The man who created me also experimented with scanning the synaptic patterns of the colonists' temporal lobes and programming them into my neural nets.
MARR: You possess their thoughts?
DATA: To some degree. Doctor Soong hoped to provide me with an amalgam of the colonists' memories.
MARR: Interesting.

[Bridge]
MARR: There. A spike at ten keV. And again. It's the same pattern we saw in Engineering.
PICARD: Mister Data, can you project a course from it?
DATA: Yes, sir. There are two possible destinations. The Brechtian Cluster and the Argos system.
PICARD: Is either populated?
DATA: Yes, sir. The Brechtian Cluster has two inhabited planets.
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Brechtian Cluster.
MARR: Captain, I've done some preliminary estimates on the firing pattern we need in order to destroy the Entity. The photon torpedoes will require some reprogramming, but with your permission, I'll give the calculations to Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: Reprogram the torpedoes, Mister Worf. Let's hope we don't have to use them.
MARR: I beg your pardon?
PICARD: If we can possibly avoid firing on it, I would hope it would be
MARR: You aren't going to kill it?
PICARD: Perhaps you should join me in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
MARR: I don't understand. Why are we pursuing the Entity, if not to destroy it?
PICARD: We're not hunters, Doctor. Nor is it our role to exact revenge.
MARR: What do you propose? We track it down, greet it warmly and ask if it would mind terribly not ravaging any more planets?
PICARD: I don't denying that it may be necessary to fire on it. But I look on that as a last resort.
MARR: Why? Why not just kill it?
PICARD: I want to try to communicate with it.
MARR: What?
PICARD: We know from our own experience that our shields will protect us. So long as we're in no danger, I will make every effort to communicate.
MARR: To what end?
PICARD: If we can determine what its needs are, we might find other sources to supply it.
MARR: Its needs are to slaughter people by the thousands. It is nothing but a giant killing machine.
PICARD: Doctor, the sperm whale on Earth devours millions of cuttlefish as it roams the oceans. It is not evil. It is feeding. The same may be true of the Crystalline Entity.
MARR: That would be small comfort for those who have died to feed it. We're not talking about cuttlefish, we're talking about people.
PICARD: I would argue that the Crystalline Entity has as much right to be here as we do. Now, Commander Data has some theories on how we might communicate. Please confer with him.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
MARR: Am I disturbing you?
DATA: Not at all, Doctor.
MARR: Commander, there's something I want to say. You have been helpful to me, and kind, and I repaid you with accusations, and I realize I may have been wrong.
DATA: That is very gracious of you to say, Doctor, but I have not been injured by you.
MARR: Captain Picard has told me you've done work in trying to establish communication with the Entity.
DATA: That is true. I have experimented with producing vibrations in crystals by means of graviton pulses.
MARR: Like tapping a crystal goblet?
DATA: Exactly. I will call up the results I have achieved this far for you to study.
MARR: All right. Commander, just what kind of memories do you retain of the colonists?
DATA: I do not possess the minute to minute remembrances of each person, although the more intense recollections are contained in my memory banks.
MARR: Do you have any of my son's memories?
DATA: Marr, Raymond. Called Renny. Yes. I do.
MARR: I see. And his journals?
DATA: Yes.
MARR: I was wondering. Do you know? Did he blame me?
DATA: Blame you?
MARR: For going away. For leaving him on Omicron Theta.
DATA: There are no records of any blame against you.
MARR: I left him with friends. I chose to pursue my own career. I planned to go back, but things kept interfering. I kept thinking, I'll go next month. And there weren't any more next months.
DATA: There are no records of any negative thoughts about you. His personal journals indicated that he was proud that you were such a fine scientist.
MARR: He was? What else do you know?
RIKER (voiceover): Commander Data, Doctor Marr, report to the Bridge immediately.

[Bridge]
CAPTAIN (voiceover): We are being chased by an unidentified entity traveling at warp speed.
PICARD: A distress call from a ship called the Kallisko. It's being pursued by an unknown object.
CAPTAIN (voiceover): Sensors indicate a crystalline structure of indeterminate mass.
PICARD: How strong are your shields, Captain?
CAPTAIN (voiceover): We are a transport ship. Our shields are minimal.
PICARD: Do you carry weapons?
CAPTAIN (voiceover): Only low level particle phasers. Do you know what this being is?
PICARD: Kallisko, change course. Take evasive action. Do whatever you can to outrun it.
CAPTAIN (voiceover): we are under attack! Captain, notify our people on Boreal Three
PICARD: Mister Worf, try to reestablish.
WORF: I cannot, sir. There is no response.
DATA: The Crystalline Entity is moving away, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Kallisko. Mister Riker, prepare an away team.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45125.7. An away team led by Commander Riker has conducted a thorough survey of the alien ship Kallisko, and has returned to the Enterprise to report.

[Bridge]
RIKER: It was pretty much as we expected, sir. No survivors.
CRUSHER: Not a trace of anything that was ever alive. Not even a seed in their greenery storage.
DATA: Warp and impulse engines are down, sir, but they can be restarted. A skeleton crew could take the ship to a starbase.
PICARD: No, we don't have time for that now. Mister Worf, send a message to the nearest starbase. Ask them to dispatch a crew.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, make certain that we're still picking up the gamma radiation pattern of the Entity.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Have you and Commander Data made any progress in finding a means of communication?
MARR: I believe so. There are some details to iron out.
PICARD: Please keep working at it. We may need it soon.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Deck seventeen. Doctor, you have seemed preoccupied since we surveyed the Kallisko.
MARR: I've found it easy to talk to you, Commander. Do you mind if I tell you something?
DATA: Not at all.
MARR: After hearing the screams of those men, I found it hard not to think about my son, about what happened to him. I've read stories about soldiers in the battlefield, wounded, dying. They call for their mothers. And I've often wondered if my son called for me. If he died wondering why I didn't come to him.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: It's still headed for the Brechtian Cluster. We've re-established our course.
PICARD: Very well. Oh, one thing, Number One. Starfleet will be notifying Carmen Davila's family of her death and returning her personal effects. Would you care to enclose a letter?
RIKER: Yes, sir. I'd like that very much.
PICARD: Is there something more, Number One?
RIKER: Permission to speak freely, sir?
PICARD: Of course.
RIKER: I've been thinking maybe Doctor Marr is right. Maybe we should destroy the Entity.
PICARD: Why do you think that?
RIKER: It's already killed thousands. It will undoubtedly continue to kill unless we stop it. I don't want those deaths on my conscience.
PICARD: Are you sure that that's it, Number One, or are you being influenced by personal feelings?
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, I'm not a raw cadet. I've lost people on missions before. If we take time to try to communicate with this thing, we may lose our chance to destroy it. And I don't think we can risk that. I think I'll go write that letter to Carmen's family.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: We should program the bridge science station to vary the emissions we direct toward the Entity.
MARR: I'll write a subroutine that will allow us to change the frequency of the graviton beam. Data? You told me you carried some of my son's memories.
DATA: That is correct, Doctor.
MARR: What can you tell me about Renny? What were those thoughts? Was he was he happy at all, on Omicron Theta?
DATA: I have some vivid memories of sporting events. He played parrises squares with a group of his schoolmates.
MARR: Renny started parrises squares when he was young. Too young, really. But the older children kept asking him to play, and I couldn't keep him away. He had this natural gift.
DATA: Yes, he was pleased to have won a championship emblem.
MARR: I remember he wrote me about that. He was so proud. I'm characterizing pulse widths in nanoseconds. Sound right to you?
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Your son's most intense memories revolve around a young woman named Jenina.
MARR: A girlfriend? I never knew about that. Of course, the last person he would tell would be his mother. What was she like?
DATA: He enjoyed her kindness, her gentleness, her physical attributes.
MARR: There. Now we can vary all the parameters directly from the Bridge.
DATA: Yes, Doctor.
MARR: Could you do something for me? It would mean a lot.
DATA: I would be happy to be of help.
MARR: You see, all I have left of Renny, the only connection of him is there, inside you. I was wondering if you would talk to me in his voice. I know you have the ability to sound like other people, isn't that right?
DATA: That is true, Doctor, but what would you want me to say?
MARR: Maybe something from his journals.
DATA: Many of his journal entries took the form of letters to friends and family. I could access one of those.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45129.2. We are still in pursuit of the Crystalline Entity. Data and Doctor Marr are prepared to attempt communication with the being when we intercept it. I will admit to some uncertainty about the prospect. It could prove to be a scientific triumph, or a catastrophe.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Brechtian Cluster is now five light years away.
RIKER: Are we still picking up the Entity's pattern?
DATA: Yes, Commander, but sensors have not yet locked onto its exact whereabouts.
MARR: Captain, we are reasonably sure it's between here and the Brechtian Cluster. If I start emitting the graviton beam now, it may serve as a lure. A kind of beacon.
PICARD: Make it so.
MARR: We'll start with a pulse width of five nanoseconds, frequency one pulse per second.
DATA: Commencing graviton emissions now.
LAFORGE: No change in the sensor readings.
MARR: Let's ramp frequency.
DATA: Emissions now at ten pulses per second.
WORF: Sir.
MARR: What is it? Do you have something?
WORF: A large mass approaching at warp speed.
PICARD: Full stop.
HELM: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Doctor, continue emitting the signals. Mister Worf, on screen.
RIKER: Shields up.
PICARD: Magnify.
MARR: It's beautiful.
RIKER: What's it doing? Checking us out?
PICARD: Possibly. Just as we're checking it out.
DATA: Doctor Marr, do you wish to change the frequency? Doctor Marr?
MARR: Yes. Yes, proceed, Commander.
DATA: Changing to twenty pulses per second.
TROI: Is it responding to us?
MARR: Let's test that. Ramp the frequency again, Commander.
DATA: Emissions now at thirty pulses per second.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm reading a transmission from the Entity. A series of graviton pulses.
MARR: It's working. That's a response to our signal.
PICARD: Remarkable.
DATA: Captain, there is a pattern emerging from the signals.
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us.
DATA: I believe so, sir, but it will take some time to decipher the patterns.
PICARD: Then it's possible. Communication, understanding.
MARR: Let me try something else. A continuous graviton beam.
LAFORGE: All graviton pulses from the Entity have stopped.
TROI: Maybe it doesn't like what we're doing.
PICARD: Doctor, return to the intermittent signal.
DATA: Doctor? Doctor Marr? Doctor Marr, we must return to the intermittent signal.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: Something's very wrong, Captain.
DATA: Sir, the Entity is beginning to resonate. Vibrations are increasing.
PICARD: Doctor, stop the transmission. That is an order. Doctor Marr, do you hear me?
MARR: It's for you, Renny I did it for you.
PICARD: Mister Worf, take charge of the Doctor. Mister Data, shut down the transmission.
LAFORGE: Vibration amplitude is increasing. It can't last much longer.
DATA: I cannot stop our graviton signal, Captain. Doctor Marr has isolated the access code.
LAFORGE: Maybe I can create an override sequence. Shut it down from here.
DATA: The amplitude is still rising, Captain. Resonance is approaching critical.
LAFORGE: I can override her program, but it's going to take some time.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you escort the Doctor to her quarters.
WORF: Yes, sir.
MARR: It will never hurt anyone again.
DATA: Perhaps I should escort the Doctor, sir.
PICARD: Fine, but don't leave her unattended.
DATA: Please come with me, Doctor.
MARR: Of course.

[Marr's quarters]
DATA: I will stay with you, Doctor.
MARR: How long will you live, Data?
DATA: There has been no predetermined limit placed on my existence, Doctor.
MARR: I'm glad. As long as you're alive he'll be alive. I need your help, Data.
DATA: In what way, Doctor?
MARR: Like you did before. Tell me that you understand, Renny. That you know I did it for you, because I love you. Because I wanted to give you peace at last.
DATA: I do not find such a file in your son's journals. However, from what I know of him by his memories and his writing, I do not believe he would be happy. He was proud of your career as a scientist, and now you have destroyed that. You say you did it for him, but I do not believe he would have wanted that. Yes, I believe your son would be very sad now. I am sorry, Doctor, but I cannot help you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45156.1. Our mission to Mudor Five has been completed and since our next assignment will not begin for several days, we are enjoying a welcome respite from our duties.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: If it's a boy, Michael, after my father.
KEIKO: Wait a minute. We decided on Hiro, after my father.
O'BRIEN: We talked about this last night.
KEIKO: That's right, and we decided on Hiro.
RIKER: Wait. I've got it. William. It's a great name. William O'Brien. It's got a nice ring to it.
KEIKO: It's all right. He's just doing somersaults. Here, feel.
KEIKO: Right there.
RIKER: He's going to be a hell of a gymnast.
DATA: May I?
KEIKO: Sure. There, feel it? When he's not turning, he's kicking and punching. When I want to sleep, he wants to wake up. At this point, I just wish it were over.
O'BRIEN: I have to go. I've got a transporter simulation on the bridge. Bye-bye, Michael.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: Come on, Geordi.
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: Just try it once. It is not as hard as you think. I'm telling you, you will be terrific.
LAFORGE: All right. I am the very model of a modern major general, I've information vegetable, animal and mineral. I can't do this.
CRUSHER: Yes you can!
LAFORGE: I cannot sing in front of people.
CRUSHER: You were terrific! You were a little off pitch, but I think I can take care of that. Okay, La Forge as a modern major general.

[Bridge]
TROI: Captain, I'd like to introduce you to the winners of the primary school science fair. This is Marissa, Jay Gordon, and Patterson. They're here for their tour.
PICARD: Hello.
PATTERSON: Can we see the battle bridge and torpedo bay?
PICARD: No, I'm afraid not. But we will be visiting the hydroponics and astrophysics laboratories.
TROI: I'm sure you'll have a wonderful time.
PICARD: Well. If you'll come with me.
O'BRIEN: I'm not sure who to feel sorry for, the Captain or the kids.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: I want you to know we're very proud of the science fair winners. Perhaps some of you will choose to pursue a career in Starfleet. Well, then. What did you do for your science projects?
PATTERSON: I planted radishes in this special dirt and they came up all weird!
PICARD: I see. That's very, very commendable. And you?
JAY GORDON: An analysis of the life span of the swarming moths of Gonal Four. They only live for twenty hours, then they all die.
PICARD: How interesting. And you
PICARD: We're falling!

[Bridge]
MONROE: What happened?
MANDEL: Sensors are picking up subspace distortions and high energy particles directly to starboard.
MONROE: Looks like we ran into a quantum filament. Damage report?
O'BRIEN: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems. Impulse and warp engines are offline.
MANDEL: There's another filament moving toward us, sir.
MONROE: All decks brace for impact!
O'BRIEN: Counselor?
TROI: I'm all right. Medical team to the Bridge. Troi to Sickbay. Counselor Troi to Captain Picard. Troi to Engineering. Counselor Troi to any crew member, please acknowledge.
TROI: Medical team to the Bridge.
O'BRIEN: The computer's down. It looks like we still have impulse power but not much else.
TROI: Lieutenant Monroe!
MANDEL: Chief O'Brien. The turbolifts aren't working. We're trapped up here.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Are you, are you children all right?
PICARD: Bridge, this is Picard. This is the Captain. Can anyone hear me?
PATTERSON: Why don't they answer?
PICARD: I don't know.
JAY GORDON: They're all dead.
PICARD: They're not dead. Communication is down, that's all.
JAY GORDON: We're going to die, too.
PICARD: We most certainly are not. Now listen to me. No one here is going to die. The bridge will be sending a rescue party as soon as possible. So I want you all to stop crying. Everything is going to be all right.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: This is the Federation Starship Enterprise calling any vessel within range. We are in distress and need assistance. Please respond. I'm still not sure we're even transmitting. I'll set the message on auto repeat and see if we get a response.
O'BRIEN: Are you all right?
RO: I'm alive. What the hell happened?
O'BRIEN: We were hit by a quantum filament. Most of our systems are down and we haven't been able to contact anyone off the bridge.
RO: Well, don't count on leaving through there. An emergency bulkhead closed just beneath that lift.
O'BRIEN: Confinement mode.
RO: Right. Isolation protocol.
TROI: I'm not really familiar with that protocol.
O'BRIEN: If the computer senses a hull breach, it automatically closes emergency bulkheads to isolate the breach. Until we can clear those bulkheads, we'll be cut off from the rest of the ship.
MANDEL: I have partial sensors back online. I'm picking up sporadic life signs throughout the saucer section. There are definitely survivors.
O'BRIEN: What about Ten Forward?
RO: Ten Forward?
O'BRIEN: My wife's there.
MANDEL: I'm sorry, Chief. The readings are not that specific.
RO: Can you scan the drive section?
MANDEL: I'm not reading any life signs in the drive section.
RO: Could the sensors be malfunctioning?
MANDEL: There's no way to know. Without the main computer, I can't run a full diagnostic.
O'BRIEN: Can you sense anything, Counselor?
TROI: There are a lot of people still alive. Many of them are hurt but I can't tell where they are.
RO: We need to start emergency procedures. Who's the duty officer?
O'BRIEN: Lieutenant Monroe was in command, but she's dead. I believe Counselor Troi is the senior officer on the deck.
RO: Counselor Troi?
O'BRIEN: She carries the rank of Lieutenant Commander.
TROI: I'd appreciate some suggestions.
O'BRIEN: I recommend we initiate emergency procedure alpha two. Bypass computer control and place all systems on manual override.
TROI: Very well.
O'BRIEN: Aye, aye, sir.
RO: May I suggest that our next priority be to stabilize life support and try to re-establish intership communications?
TROI: Yes. Mister Mandel, I'd like you to assist Ensign Ro.
MANDEL: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: How do you feel?
KEIKO: Okay. A little foggy.
RIKER: Just lie still for a while. We'll get you to Sickbay as soon as we can.
KEIKO: Okay.
RIKER: Report.
DATA: I have surveyed all the turbolifts and service crawlways on this deck. Access to the Bridge has been completely severed by emergency bulkheads.
WORF: Sickbay?
DATA: Heavy damage to section twenty three A has cut off access to Sickbay. I have ordered a security team to bring casualties here until further notice.
RIKER: I think we should assume the worst, that everyone on the Bridge is dead. There's no one is in control of the ship.
DATA: In that circumstance, re-establishing control should be our top priority.
RIKER: Agreed. Can we get to Engineering?
DATA: Yes, sir. The most direct route is blocked, but I believe we can use a starboard service crawlway.
RIKER: Okay, you and I will try to get there. Mister Worf, this room is going to fill with wounded in a few minutes and they're going to need help. I want you to stay in charge here.
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Let's go.
WORF: Over here.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Okay. Clear the power shunt.
CRUSHER: The shunt is cleared.
LAFORGE: Right. And bypass the flow current, and . The computer still won't release the doors.
CRUSHER: Can we force them open?
LAFORGE: Yes, we can try. There's an emergency hand actuator.
CRUSHER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yes?
CRUSHER: This wall is hot.
LAFORGE: Where?
LAFORGE: I'm all right, but I think we've got a new problem. One of the energy conduits must've ruptured and ignited the polyduranide inside the bulkhead. That's a plasma fire.
CRUSHER: It's putting out a lot of radiation. We can't stay in here very long.
LAFORGE: We've got a bigger problem than that. The quaratum in these containers is used in emergency thruster packs. It's normally pretty stable stuff but when you expose quaratum to radiation, it has a way of exploding.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: The external power is cut off.
JAY GORDON: We're going to die.
PATTERSON: What was that?
PICARD: I don't know.
PICARD: Your name is Marissa. Is that right? Well, Marissa, I'm going to need a first officer to help me. You're the oldest and so that makes you my Number One.
MARISSA: Number One?
PICARD: That's what I always called my first officer. So, here.
PICARD: There. Now, Number One, we need a crew to help us get that hatch off. Don't you think that Jay here would make an excellent science officer? What do you say, Jay? Will you join our crew?
JAY GORDON: It's Jay Gordon.
PICARD: Of course. Forgive me, Jay Gordon.
JAY GORDON: I accept.
PICARD: There.
PATTERSON: Can I be an officer, too?
PICARD: Well, let me see. Your science project involved radishes, did it not?
PATTERSON: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then I shall appoint you my executive officer in charge of radishes.
PICARD: There. Right, then let's get to work.

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER: Thirteen sixty five baker. That should put us right behind shuttlebay two.
DATA: That is correct, sir. We have approximately fifty two meters remaining in this crawlway before we can safely exit into a main corridor.
RIKER: Coolant leak!

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: We can withstand this level of radiation for another three or four hours without any permanent damage. We'll need a few days of hyronalin treatments.
LAFORGE: What are the radiation levels in the quaratum?
CRUSHER: They're at eighty three rads and rising at a rate of about four rads per minute.
LAFORGE: That stuff gets unstable at around three hundred and fifty rads. I still haven't been able to get any power to this transporter.
CRUSHER: The radiation levels is about twenty percent lower at this end of the bay. Let's move the containers over to here.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. It should buy us some time. You know we're going to have to do this by hand. With all the radiation floating around in here we can't trust the antigrav units.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: There. Just before the second time we were hit. See the subspace distortion?
TROI: Yes. How big is a quantum filament?
O'BRIEN: It can be hundreds of meters long, but it has almost no mass, which makes it very difficult to detect.
TROI: So, it's like a cosmic string?
O'BRIEN: No. that's a completely different phenomenon.
O'BRIEN: How did you do that?
RO: I diverted power from the phaser array and I dumped it into the engineering control system.
O'BRIEN: You what?
RO: Engineering station's online, Counselor.
O'BRIEN: But that's a completely improper procedure. You can't just dump that much raw energy into a bridge terminal without blowing
RO: We're not going to get out of this by playing it safe.
TROI: What is our engine status, Ensign?
RO: We've got half impulse power available, but I'm getting some odd readings from the warp drive. I'm reading a spike in the warp field array. It looks like a containment deviation.
O'BRIEN: Switch to primary bypass.
RO: Nothing. Field strength's at forty percent and falling. We've got a problem. The quantum resonance of the filament caused a polarity shift in the antimatter containment field.
O'BRIEN: When the filament hit us, the ship was momentarily charged, as if it had come into contact with a live electrical wire.
RO: That weakened the containment field surrounding the antimatter pods. The field strength is at forty percent and it is still falling.
O'BRIEN: If it falls to fifteen percent the field will collapse and we'll have a containment breach.
TROI: Which means?
RO: Which means the ship will explode.

[Jefferies tube]
DATA: Commander, the current cannot be off down from this relay box.
RIKER: We can't just sit here.
DATA: If the energy flowing through that arc were interrupted by a nonconductive material, it is likely the circuit would be broken.
RIKER: I don't see any material in here that could handle that much current.
DATA: Commander, much of my bodyframe is made up of tripolymers, a non conductive material.
RIKER: Are you suggesting we use your own body?
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Data, there's half a million amps flowing through that arc. Could your body handle that much current?
DATA: The power surge would cause a system failure in my internal processors and melt my primary power couplings. However, there is a chance that the damage would not be irreparable.
RIKER: No.
DATA: Commander, our options are very limited.
RIKER: First of all, android or not, I wouldn't ask anyone to take that kind of risk. Second, if the computer is not working in Engineering, I'm going to need your help to get control of the ship.
DATA: My positronic brain has several layers of shielding to protect me from power surges. It would be possible for you to remove my cranial unit and take it with you.
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You want me to take off your head?
DATA: Yes, sir. Is something wrong, sir?
RIKER: Well, Data, would you be all right?
DATA: My memory core and neural nets are self-contained. I would be fine, sir.
RIKER: Well, like you said, our choices are very limited.
RIKER: Data? Data! Data.
DATA: A remarkable experience, Commander.
RIKER: Are you all right? Did the shielding work?
DATA: Apparently so, sir. My neural nets are still fully operational. You may begin by opening the ventral access panel located two centimeters beneath my right ear.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Can you climb up?
JAY GORDON: Yes, I think so.
PICARD: Good. Now look down the sides of the lift. Can you see two big clamps?
JAY GORDON: Yes, I see them.
PICARD: Can you see if those clamps are attached to long beams inside big grooves?
JAY GORDON: Yes. But one of them looks broken. It's half out of the groove.
PICARD: All right. Come down.
PICARD: All right. Number One, those big clamps are part of the emergency system. If something goes wrong, they're designed to hold the turbolift in place. But it would seem that they're damaged.
MARISSA: Is that why we keep shaking?
PICARD: That's right. Now, when they give way, we shall fall. So you've got to get your crew out of here before that happens. Now, there is a ladder along the wall of the shaft. You can climb up that until you come to an open doorway.
MARISSA: What about you?
PICARD: My ankle is broken. I will just slow you down when you need to move quickly. Now, you are the leader. And that's an order.
MARISSA: We have to climb up the shaft.
PATTERSON: I want to stay here with you, Captain.
PICARD: Patterson, you're an officer. You have to obey orders.
PATTERSON: I don't want to be an officer any more. I want to stay here with you.
JAY GORDON: If the captain stays here, we won't make it. We'll all die.
PICARD: We don't have time to argue. You must go now.
MARISSA: The crew has decided to stick together. We all go or we all stay.
PICARD: All right. I'll try. But I want you to know this is mutiny. Now, Number One, look at that control panel. Now, the yellow control pad, hit that once. Now the one below it, hit twice. Now that should release the panel underneath.
MARISSA: Yes, it did.
PICARD: Now, you can pull it away.
MARISSA: Okay.
PICARD: Good. Now, that bundle of wires, that's optical cabling. See how much of that you can pull out.

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: The levels are still rising. There must be some way to put that fire out.
LAFORGE: The energy's being fed by the ship's internal power grid and we can't even get near that. The only way to stop it would be to eliminate its supply of oxygen. Wait a minute. Doctor, I've got an idea. It's kind or wild, but we just might be able to kill two birds with one stone.
CRUSHER: Let's hear it.
LAFORGE: Okay. We open the external door. That would depressurize the cargo bay and suck all of those containers out into space. At the same time, the lack of oxygen should put out the plasma fire.
CRUSHER: What about us?
LAFORGE: We just need to find something in here to hold onto while the air is evacuating. Then, we close the door, repressurize the bay.
CRUSHER: What about this?
LAFORGE: Yeah, that ought to do it.

[Ten Forward]
KEIKO: There that should do it.
WORF: There will be a sharp pain as I set the bone. Prepare yourself. Good. Good, you bore that well.
WORF: Keiko?
KEIKO: I'm all right. I think.
WORF: Perhaps you should lie down.
KEIKO: Oh, oh, oh. I'm having contractions.
WORF: I believe that is not uncommon in the late months of pregnancy.
KEIKO: No, I mean contractions. I'm going into labor.
WORF: You cannot. This this is not a good time, Keiko.
KEIKO: It's not open for debate. Like it or not, this baby is coming.

[Observation lounge]
O'BRIEN: If the containment field strength continues to drop at its present rate, we still have at least two hours before it becomes critical.
RO: But you're ignoring the fact that the power coupling is also damaged. If that coupling overheats, the field strength could drop a lot faster. We could have a containment breach in a matter of minutes.
TROI: What do you suggest?
RO: We should separate the saucer now, and put as much distance as possible between us and the drive section.
O'BRIEN: Excuse me, sir, but that's damn cold blooded. What about the people down there?
RO: There's no evidence that anyone is still alive in the drive section.
O'BRIEN: No evidence they're dead, either. If you were trapped down there, would you like us to just cut you loose and leave?
RO: No, of course not. But I also wouldn't expect the bridge crew to risk the safety of the ship and hundreds of lives in a futile effort to rescue me.
TROI: You said there was no way to stabilize the containment field from the Bridge. Could it be done from Engineering?
O'BRIEN: Yes, but my readings indicate there's no power down there. They don't even have monitors to tell them there's a problem.
TROI: Could we divert energy from the Bridge to those monitors?
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
RO: I'll say it again. There is no reason to believe that anyone is alive in Engineering. We're wasting time even talking about this. We have to separate the ship now.
TROI: I believe there are still people alive down there and I'm going to give them every chance. Assuming they're alive, they'll be hoping there's someone up here who can help them. So we'll help them. Chief, divert the necessary power to Engineering.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
RO: I remind you, Counselor, that power coupling could overheat at any moment. By not separating the ship now, you may be responsible for all our deaths.
TROI: Thank you, Ensign. Proceed.

[Turboshaft]
PICARD: I can't open this door. We're going to have to climb up to the next deck.
PATTERSON: What if that one doesn't open either?
JAY GORDON: Then we'll never get out.
MARISSA: Quiet, both of you. That's an order.
PICARD: We're going up. Ready?
MARISSA: Ready, sir.
PICARD: The lift's falling! Hang on!
PICARD: We're all right. We're going to keep on climbing. Just don't look down.
JAY GORDON: What's wrong?
MARISSA: He's scared.
PICARD: We're right with you, Patterson. You're not going to fall. Everything will be all right if you just keep climbing. What we need is a climbing song. Marissa, is there a song you sing at school?
MARISSA: The Laughing Vulcan and His Dog?
PICARD: I'm afraid I don't know that one. I know. Frere Jacques. That's a song I used to sing when I was at school. Patterson, do you know that one? Good. It goes like this. Frere Jacques, Frere Jacques, dormez vous? Dormez vous?
ALL: Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines, ding ding dong, ding ding dong.
PICARD: Very good. Now, keep singing.
ALL: Frere Jacques, frere Jacques, dormez vous? Dormez vous? Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines. Ding ding dong, ding ding dong. Frere Jacques, frere Jacques, dormez vous? Dormez vous? Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines. Ding ding dong, ding ding dong. Frere Jacques, frere Jacques

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Your contractions are now only thirty seconds apart. Dilation has gone to seven centimeters since the onset of labor. That did not take long.
KEIKO: That's easy for you to say.
WORF: You are doing very well. I am sure the child will arrive soon.
KEIKO: Worf, has the baby turned?
WORF: Turned?
KEIKO: So the head is down. Doctor Crusher told me a few days ago that it hadn't. She wasn't worried because I still had a month to go.
WORF: I am not certain. Can't you tell?
KEIKO: Worf, have you ever done this before?, delivered a baby?
WORF: Yes. No. I have taken the Starfleet Emergency Medical Course. In a computerized simulation, I assisted in the delivery of a human baby.
KEIKO: Sometimes it doesn't go by the book, Worf.
WORF: I am sure everything will be fine.

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: Once the air is vented, the first thing you'll feel is extreme pressure in your lungs. You have to resist the temptation to exhale. Next, our hands and feet will get cold, then numb, and some of the capillaries on exposed sections of the skin may burst.
LAFORGE: Sounds like fun.
CRUSHER: We will have about fifteen seconds of useful consciousness, then about ten seconds of extreme disorientation, then we pass out.
LAFORGE: Okay. Once the air is evacuated, one of us is going to need to get to that panel to repressurize the bay.
LAFORGE: We're ready. Are you okay?

[Bridge]
RO: The field strength is down to twenty percent. We cannot run the risk of staying here any longer.
O'BRIEN: We're in no danger until it drops below fifteen percent. We can afford to wait and see if anyone in Engineering notices those monitors.
TROI: Have you made preparations to separate the Saucer section?
RO: Yes, sir. We're in stand by mode for docking latches.
O'BRIEN: Ensign there's a thermal inversion in the power coupling!
RO: Quick, cross-connect to the transfer coil. That was close.
TROI: What happened?
RO: Exactly what I said might happen. The power coupling overheated and the entire containment field almost collapsed. O'Brien's fixed it temporarily, but this could happen again at any moment, and next time we might not be able to stop it. You can't let wishful thinking guide your decision, Counselor. It's time to leave.
TROI: We will separate the ship when I decide that it's time, and not before. Is that clear, Ensign?
RO: Yes. Perfectly.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Okay, try it.
DATA: Very good, Commander. You have established a connection. I can now raise the door.
RIKER: There's no power on this entire deck, yet somehow these monitors are working.
DATA: The power reaching those monitors has been diverted from the Bridge, sir.
RIKER: But why? Unless there's something they want us something they need us to see. Wait a minute. Data, the containment field strength is down to eighteen percent. Can you stabilize it?
DATA: No, sir. I do not have access to the containment field. You will have to establish a new link. Locate the ODN conduit, sir.
RIKER: Got it.
DATA: Yes, sir. You must now change the input matrix in my secondary optical port and then connect the ODN conduit.
DATA: That is not the correct port, sir.
RIKER: Sorry.
DATA: You must hurry, Commander. The containment field has dropped to sixteen percent.
RIKER: I'm trying. You need a bigger head.
DATA: The field continues to drop, sir. Collapse is imminent.
RIKER: Try it now.
DATA: I have a connection, sir. I am now stabilizing the containment field.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, the field strength is stabilizing. Eighteen percent, twenty, twenty five.
RO: I guess they got our message. I was wrong, Counselor.
TROI: You could have easily been right.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Congratulations. You are fully dilated to ten centimeters. You may now give birth.
KEIKO: That's what I've been doing.
WORF: Bearing down is the next stage. It should start at full dilation. Why has it not begun?
KEIKO: I don't know. I don't think it's up to me. It happens when it happens.
WORF: The computer simulation was not like this. That delivery was very orderly.
KEIKO: Well, I'm sorry!
WORF: Did you feel an uncontrollable urge to push?
WORF: Good. You are bearing down. Now you must push with each contraction and I must urge you gently but firmly to push harder. Push, Keiko. Push hard. Push, Keiko. Push. Push.
KEIKO: I am pushing!
WORF: The baby is emerging head first. One more contraction.
KEIKO: Okay.
WORF: That's good. Push. Push. Hard. I have the baby. I will smack the child to induce breathing.
WORF: Now I will cut the umbilical cord. Blanket. I believe she looks like Chief O'Brien.
KEIKO: Hello. You were wonderful, Worf. I couldn't have done it without you. Hello.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are en route to Starbase sixty seven, to undergo repairs. Life aboard the Enterprise is slowly returning to normal.

[Bridge]
TROI: Now just wait here.
RIKER: You just can't stay away from the big chair, can you?
TROI: I don't think I'm cut out to be Captain. First officer, maybe. I understand there aren't many qualifications.
RIKER: Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.
PICARD: Hello. It's good to see you again. What brings you to the Bridge?
MARISSA: In appreciation for the way you helped us get out of the turboshaft, and the way you helped us not be scared, we want to present to you this commemorative plaque. Give it to him.
PICARD: Thank you. Thank you very much.
PATTERSON: I made the back piece.
PICARD: And a wonderful job you did of it, too. Well, later this afternoon, we're going to finish the tour I promised you, starting with the battle bridge. I'll see you at fourteen hundred hours. You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER + MARISSA: Aye, sir.

[Riker's holiday apartment]
RIKER: Etana? I know you're back there. Don't make me come after you.
RIKER: Give me that.
ETANA: You don't need that.
RIKER: Yes, I do.
RIKER: I need that communicator.
ETANA: Commander Riker to the Enterprise. I've a terrible problem down here on Risa.
RIKER: Give me that.
ETANA: Go get it.
RIKER: I don't believe you did that.
ETANA: Believe it.
RIKER: What is this?
ETANA: It's a game. Everyone here's playing it. It's fun.
RIKER: Do I keep my eyes open, or closed?
ETANA: Open.
RIKER: What am I seeing?
ETANA: The playing field.
RIKER: Now what?
ETANA: See the disk and the cone?
RIKER: Yeah.
ETANA: Concentrate. Make the disk go into the cone.
RIKER: How do I do that?
ETANA: Just let go. Relax. You'll do it.
RIKER: What was that?
ETANA: Your reward for clearing the first level.
RIKER: How far does this game go?
ETANA: As far as you can take it. Would you like to go for level two?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45208.2. Commander Riker has rejoined the Enterprise from Risa, and we are on our way to an uncharted area called the Phoenix Cluster. We're all anticipating this historic first look at the region.

[Bridge]
RIKER: It's starting to get busy around here. Five new science teams just beamed in from the Zhukov. Quarters are filling up fast.
PICARD: On top of everything, there's been a change. We've been given only two weeks to complete the exploration.
RIKER: Two weeks? That's not enough time to explore a region that size. I thought we had five weeks.
DATA: Commander, Starfleet has added a diplomatic mission to Oceanus Four.
PICARD: Will, I'm leaving it up to you to make sure that all science departments have an equal chance of completing their research.
RIKER: That'll be quite a juggling act.
PICARD: Oh, and one piece of good news.. We're to rendezvous with a shuttlecraft carrying Wesley Crusher. He's on vacation from the Academy.
RIKER: Wesley? Good. We'll need an extra hand around here.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Geordi, how are you coming with the survey preparations?
LAFORGE: I'm up to my neck in observation schedules right now. Our biggest hurdle is sensor availability.
RIKER: Especially since two new exobiologists and three stellar cartographers have joined us from the Zhukov.
LAFORGE: Fifteen science teams, only two weeks, and one long-range array don't make for a great combination.
RIKER: What about the lateral sensors?
LAFORGE: They're booked solid for planetary observation.
RIKER: And the gamma ray scanner?
LAFORGE: We're reprogramming them now. Lefler, a moment of your time, please?
LAFORGE: You know Robin Lefler.
RIKER: Of course.
LAFORGE: Her work around here's been so sensational, I've decided to make her a mission specialist.
RIKER: Congratulations.
ROBIN: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Okay, specialist, what's our sensor status?
ROBIN: We're increasing the available bandwidth so more science teams can use the sensors at once. We figured out a way to do it by multiplexing the array.
RIKER: Can we have that done before we arrive?
ROBIN: Yes, sir. You can count on it.
RIKER: Keep it up, Lefler.
RIKER: Geordi, I brought something back from Risa that you have got to try it.
LAFORGE: I'd love to, but I'm running a full sensor recalibration in ten minutes. Can it wait?
RIKER: Of course. I'll catch up with you later.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Chocolate ice cream, chocolate fudge and chocolate chips. You're not depressed, are you?
TROI: I'm fine, Commander.
RIKER: Would you like me to leave you two alone?
TROI: No, you can join us.
RIKER: No, thanks. I don't like fudge.
TROI: Really? I never met a chocolate I didn't like.
RIKER: Doesn't it taste good?
TROI: Of course it does, but it's not just a matter of taste. It's the whole experience. First of all, you have to spoon the fudge around the rim, leaving only ice cream in the middle. Then, you gently spoon the ice cream around the sides, like you're sculpting it. Relish every bite. Make every one an event. And then, with the last spoonful, close your eyes.
RIKER: I had no idea it was such a ritual.
TROI: Chocolate is a serious thing.
RIKER: I brought something back from Risa. Better than chocolate.
TROI: Oh? What is it?
RIKER: Just a game.

[Transporter room]
WESLEY: Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Welcome back, Wesley.
WESLEY: Congratulations on little Molly.
O'BRIEN: Thanks you. Wait till you see her. She's the spitting image of her dad.
WESLEY: So, where is everybody? Is my mom around?
O'BRIEN: The senior staff is in a meeting. You're supposed to go to your mother's quarters.
WESLEY: Oh. Do you think it'd be all right if I dropped in just to say hi?
O'BRIEN: I'll check. Chief O'Brien to Bridge.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge here.
O'BRIEN: Wesley Crusher has arrived and wants to know if he can stop by the Observation lounge to say hi.
WORF (voiceover): I suppose that is acceptable.
WESLEY: Thanks.

[Observation lounge]
ALL: Surprise!
WESLEY: Mom!
CRUSHER: Welcome home.
WESLEY: Hi, Mom.
PICARD: Wesley.
WESLEY: Captain.
PICARD: Quomodo tua Latinitas est?
WESLEY: Praestat quam prius.
PICARD: Oppido bonum. Your Latin has improved.
TROI: You're looking very handsome.
CRUSHER: You really do that cadet uniform justice, Wesley.
LAFORGE: I bet you're driving all the girls wild.
WORF: Wesley. Tarvokian pound cake. I made it myself.
WESLEY: Thanks, Worf.
DATA: Wesley, was our attempt to make you uncomfortable effective?
WESLEY: You bet it was. For a second there, I thought I was on the wrong ship.
DATA: Did you find our deception pleasing?
WESLEY: Yeah. It's fun to be surprised.
RIKER: Are you here to work or to play, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Sir.
RIKER: I know you're on vacation. Probably like to sleep and spend some time on the holodeck. But if you're so inclined, we could use your help with the Phoenix Cluster survey.
WESLEY: Sounds great, sir.
LAFORGE: Excellent. As soon as you get settled, come down to Engineering and we'll get you started.
CRUSHER: So what kind of game is this?
TROI: Come by my quarters and I'll show it to you.

[Corridor]
DATA: Have you found the Academy challenging, Wesley?
WESLEY: Yeah. I thought after being on the Enterprise, it would be a breeze, but there's a lot more to learn than just starship operations. What was your first year like?
DATA: Although I did extremely well scholastically, my lack of human understanding often created social obstacles.
WESLEY: Like what?
DATA: I particularly remember the phenomenon of practical jokes, several of which I fell victim to.
WESLEY: Tell me about it. My first week that I was there, this guy named Adam Martoni reprogrammed the sonic shower to cover me with mud. It took me a while, but I got him back really good.
DATA: Good for you.
WESLEY: Thanks.
DATA: I also found social gatherings difficult. There was one event, an Academy tradition, the Sadie Hawkins Dance?
WESLEY: They still hold it, every year.
DATA: A notably awkward experience.
WESLEY: I know what you mean. I can't even dance.
DATA: Really? Your mother is quite an expert. She recently taught me.
WESLEY: The Dancing Doctor? She tried to teach me too, but I just don't have the knack.
DATA: I would be happy to teach you dancing. I have programmed a comprehensive seventeen part course with some interesting holographic partners.
WESLEY: I'll let you know.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: I'll modify the planetary scanners.
LAFORGE: Just make sure we keep enough data lines open for stellar physics.
WESLEY: No problem. I'll compress the signal flow.
LAFORGE: All right.
WESLEY: Why aren't these registering?
ROBIN: You might try calibrating them manually.
WESLEY: Excuse me?
ROBIN: The detectors. They tend to get temperamental. You can try calibrating them by hand.
WESLEY: You're kidding. The computer has to do this.
ROBIN: No. Look. The subroutine lets you do it from the panel. Law Seventeen. When all else fails, do it yourself.
WESLEY: It's working. Thanks.
ROBIN: Sure.
WESLEY: By the way, I'm Wesley. Wesley Crusher.
ROBIN: I know. Just came back from the Academy.
WESLEY: That's right.
ROBIN: Robin Lefler.
WESLEY: Hi.
ROBIN: Hi.
ROBIN: Your neutrinos are drifting.
WESLEY: They're what?

[Bridge]
DATA: Geordi, a conflict has started between the planetary evolution team and the stellar physicists. Each wishes to be the first to use the thermal imaging array.
LAFORGE: Well, tell them to flip a coin. We've got to work together on this mission, otherwise we're never going to get it done.
DATA: A coin. Very good. I will replicate one immediately.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Doctor Crusher to Data.
DATA: Data here.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Do you have a minute to join me in Sickbay? I need your help with something.
DATA: Yes, Doctor. On my way.

[Sickbay]
DATA: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, Data. I need to ask you to do something for me. I'm working on a new experiment with bioactive silicon. Would you reprogram this tricorder to these specifications?
DATA: Certainly.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry to bother you with it, but I need it done quickly.
DATA: It does not bother me. In fact, I am happy to
RIKER: Computer, secure Sickbay.
COMPUTER: All entries to Sickbay are secured.

[Ready room]
WESLEY: Let's see. I have Novakovich for anthropology and Horne for creative writing.
PICARD: Walter Horne? Is he still teaching?
WESLEY: Yeah, he is. And he's good too. And you'll be pleased to know I took your advice. The first week that I was there, I went and met Boothby.
PICARD: How is old Boothby? I hope he didn't tell you a lot of stories about me.
WESLEY: He didn't remember you, sir. At first. I found an old yearbook photo and he remembered you right away. He said he's very proud of you that you're Captain of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Is he still tending grounds, or have the years finally caught up with him?
WESLEY: Not that I can tell. He took me on a grand tour of the place. He showed me every single blade of grass, practically.
PICARD: I had the very same tour.
WESLEY: Sir, what do the initials A F stand for?
PICARD: AF?
WESLEY: Boothby said he caught you carving those initials into his prized elm tree.
PICARD: AF. Just an acquaintance of mine. Wesley, if you meet someone whose initials you might want to carve into that elm tree, don't let it interfere with your studies. I failed organic chemistry because of AF.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I need you in Sickbay immediately.
PICARD: On my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He came in complaining of a servo malfunction but my scans came out negative. Then he just collapsed.
PICARD: What have you found?
CRUSHER: His biosystems and positronic functions seem to check out, and his power cells are active.
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, his higher functions are intact, but the signals aren't getting from his brain to the rest of his body. It's like he's in a coma.
RIKER: Data performs self diagnostic routines on a regular basis. We should take a look at his logs. They may reveal something.
LAFORGE: I recommend going through his quarters, as well. You never know what we might find.
PICARD: Agreed. Continue the analysis. Keep me informed.

[Data's quarters]
RIKER: Standard security sweep shows nothing out of the ordinary.
LAFORGE: Personal logs, diagnostics, duty logs, they all appear normal. There's no evidence of anything that could lead to Data's shutdown.
RIKER: Maybe we should ask his cat.
LAFORGE: I guess I'd better get back to Sickbay, see if there's any change in his condition.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher's got everything under control, Geordi. If there's any change, you'll be the first to know.
LAFORGE: I guess so.
RIKER: Looks to me like you need a break. Unwind a little.
LAFORGE: Yeah, maybe you're right.
RIKER: I've got just the thing. Why don't you join me in Ten Forward? There's something I'd like you to try.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Conduits twelve and twenty two are still down for testing.
ROBIN: We can re-route through junction fourteen B.
WESLEY: You have a funny way of looking at conduit configuration. But it works.
ROBIN: That's Law Thirty Six. You've got to go with what works.
WESLEY: What are all these laws that I keep hearing about?
ROBIN: They're my personal laws. Every time I learn something essential, I make up a law about it so I never forget.
WESLEY: How many do you have?
ROBIN: A hundred and two so far.
ROBIN: Looks like the starboard array needs another subprocessor.
WESLEY: It'll be online in a few minutes. I'm way ahead of you.
ROBIN: They said you were good.
WESLEY: Why do I get the feeling that you already know me?
ROBIN: I have a few friends at the Academy. Your name's come up a couple of times. That was really some stung you pulled on Adam Martoni in the physics lab. I just want to know how you got the antimatter regulator to spray chili sauce.
WESLEY: There is another side to that story.
ROBIN: Is it true what they say about your birthmark?
WESLEY: This isn't fair. I hardly know anything about you.
ROBIN: Hey, that's Law Forty six. Life isn't
WESLEY: Always fair. Yeah, I know that law. I still have to work on the sensor relays, but I'd like a chance to even the score. Ten Forward, nineteen hundred hours. Will you join me for coffee?
ROBIN: No. But I'll meet you for dinner.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the Phoenix Cluster, but it will take us several hours to determine the best possible location from which to conduct our survey. Commander Data's condition remains unchanged with no further indication as to the cause of his collapse.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: Mom?
CRUSHER: Wesley.
WESLEY: What are you doing?
CRUSHER: I'm embarrassed to say. This was meant for you. But it was so much fun, I couldn't resist.
WESLEY: What is it?
CRUSHER: It's a game. Riker brought it back from Risa. Everybody's playing it. Want to try?
WESLEY: Maybe later. How's Data?
CRUSHER: Geordi's still working on him. He's going to be fine.
WESLEY: I think I should go give him a hand.
CRUSHER: No. Wesley, you are on vacation. You have done enough already.
WESLEY: Yeah, maybe you're right. Computer, increase light level.
CRUSHER: Are you in a hurry?
WESLEY: Yeah, I'm late for a dinner date.
CRUSHER: Really. With who?
WESLEY: Robin Lefler from Engineering.
CRUSHER: Why don't you invite her here? We can all play the game together. I can replicate a couple more.
WESLEY: Mom.
CRUSHER: Sorry. It's just that I want to spend some time together while you're here.
WESLEY: We'll have time together. I promise.
CRUSHER: Okay.
WESLEY: Okay.
CRUSHER: Just one game. Come on, try it on for size.
WESLEY: Mom! I really need to get ready.
CRUSHER: Have a good time.
WESLEY: Thanks. I will.

[Ten Forward]
ROBIN: When your parents are the only plasma specialists in the sector, you do a lot of traveling around. We went from base to base to base. I felt like a piece of luggage after a while. I spent all of my time around technical gear. My first friend was a tricorder.
WESLEY: Really? My very first friend was a warp coil.
ROBIN: My parents work came first. They didn't really have time for me, even when I needed them. So that's how I learned my first law. Law One. You can only count on yourself.
WESLEY: Sounds kind of lonely. Well, now you're here.
ROBIN: Now I'm here.
WESLEY: Well, I'm glad.
ROBIN: You wouldn't believe what's going on in Engineering. Commander La Forge and all the others, they're crazy about some new game.
WESLEY: Yeah, what kind of game is it?
ROBIN: It's some Risian gadget that fits over your ear.
WESLEY: Have you played it?
ROBIN: Not yet.
WESLEY: My mom has one. She keeps trying to get me to play it.
ROBIN: It's everywhere.
ROBIN: See what I mean?
WESLEY: Don't you think that's a little strange? Everybody playing it all the time.
ROBIN: It's just a fad. It's here this week. Next week we won't even know it existed.
WESLEY: I wonder how it works?
ROBIN: Why don't you try it and find out?
WESLEY: I'd like to know a little bit more about it before I try it.
ROBIN: I bet if we worked together we could figure it out.
WESLEY: Yeah, we could hook it up to one of the computers. The medical programs in the lab can be set up to emulate human responses.
ROBIN: I noticed it uses a visual interface. We could connect it through an optical sensor.

[Laboratory]
WESLEY: I've loaded the neurological behavior program. This sensor pad should allow the computer to process whatever information the game sends at it.
ROBIN: Let's see what happens.
WESLEY: Okay.
ROBIN: It's activating the reticular formation.
WESLEY: There's heavy synaptic activity all over the place.
ROBIN: I wonder what happens after prolonged exposure?
WESLEY: Speed up the processor and we'll find out.
ROBIN: The effect seems centerd around the frontal lobe.
WESLEY: Computer, enhance frontal lobe, full spectrum.
ROBIN: It's stimulating the septal area.
WESLEY: That's the pleasure center of the brain. Whatever this thing does, it must feel pretty good.
ROBIN: No wonder it's so popular.
WESLEY: Look at this. Serotonin levels are way off. Let's run a neurochemical analysis.
ROBIN: I'm seeing widespread bonding to neuro-receptors.
WESLEY: Correct me if I'm wrong, but this looks like a psychotropic reaction.
ROBIN: Are you saying you think the game's addictive?
WESLEY: What's going on in the prefrontal cortex?
ROBIN: Doesn't that area control higher reasoning?
WESLEY: Yeah, it sure does. I'd better go talk to the Captain.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Sorry to bother you, sir.
PICARD: It's no bother, Wesley. Please, sit down.
WESLEY: Thanks.
PICARD: How are the survey preparations coming along?
WESLEY: They're coming along fine, but that's not what I'm here to talk to you about.
PICARD: What then?
WESLEY: There's a game going around. It's something that Commander Riker brought back from Risa. It's a device that hooks around the ears.
PICARD: Yes, I've seen it.
WESLEY: I did some preliminary tests on the game, and what I found leads me to believe that it may have some harmful side-effects. Specifically, sir, I think it's psychotropically addictive.
PICARD: Addictive? What have you discovered?
WESLEY: The game initiates a serotonin cascade in the frontal lobe of the brain. Now I know that's nothing conclusive, but it could explain why everyone is so attracted to it. And at the same time, it stimulates the brain's reasoning center. I don't know what that's all about.
PICARD: I'll start an investigation immediately. Thank you, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Wesley? It's good to have you back again.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Have you tried this?
ROBIN: I've tried it, thanks. It's great.
WESLEY: Robin.
ROBIN: Where have you been? Everyone's after me to try it.
WESLEY: I know. I got stopped in the corridor twice. I talked to the Captain. He's going to look into it.
ROBIN: I hope he makes a shipwide announcement or something, because this thing is really starting to give me the creeps.
WOMAN: Did you forget your games?
ROBIN: We left them in our quarters.
WOMAN: Well then, use mine.
ROBIN: No, thanks.
WOMAN: Try it.
WESLEY: She said no thanks.
WESLEY: You know what else is really weird? If this game is so addictive, there's only one person onboard we can be sure wouldn't be affected by it.
ROBIN: Data.
WESLEY: Right. And he managed to get injured right when the game was brought on board. We'd better take a look at him.

[Sickbay]
WESLEY: Maybe you should go check again.
ROBIN: The nurse is still playing the game.
WESLEY: I don't know what to make of this. There's brain activity all his systems seem to be working.
ROBIN: How can that be? He's unconscious.
WESLEY: Maybe there's a signal breach between his brain and his body. Let's map his nervous system and see if we can isolate a weak link. Patch the neural output through to that station. Here. The signal stops just below his cortex processor. There's some kind of damage. It's almost undetectable. Let's look at it on the viewer.
ROBIN: Wesley, look at that.
WESLEY: It looks like some of his positronic links have been severed.
ROBIN: The cuts are precise. Look how clean the edges are. Computer, increase magnification, factor four.
WESLEY: Only two people on board know enough about Data to do something like this. Commander La Forge and my mother.
ROBIN: Why would one of them do this to him?
WESLEY: Maybe there's more going on here than we thought. What if someone's trying to use the game for some purpose other than pleasure?
ROBIN: Then Data would be a threat to that plan. And only with Data out of the way would everybody become addicted.
WESLEY: And everyone has. Except us.

[Bridge]
WORF: We've reached the designated coordinates, Captain. There is a ship bearing three two seven mark one five two on an intercept course.
PICARD: Advise them of our status, Mister Worf. Go. Replicate what you need, and see that the devices are properly distributed. Not forgetting Mister Crusher.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Wesley? Wesley?
WESLEY (voiceover): In here, Mom.
ROBIN: It worked.
WESLEY: We should keep these mock-ups with us. We can't trust anyone anymore. Not even the Captain.
ROBIN: I'm supposed to be on duty in Engineering. I've got to get back before Commander La Forge suspects something.
WESLEY: Okay. When you get there, start accessing the codes for the security tracking system. There's something I want to try.
ROBIN: Wesley, don't forget Law Ninety One. Always watch your back.
WESLEY: You too.

[Bridge]
WORF: The vessel is approaching, Captain.
PICARD: Computer, all senior officers report to the Bridge. On screen.
ETANA (screen): Report.
PICARD: Welcome, Etana. The Enterprise has been secured. We await your further instructions.
ETANA (screen): The expansion will proceed as follows. Commander Riker, you will pilot a shuttlecraft to the Cleon system, where you will rendezvous with the starship Endeavor. Proceed with distributing the device to that vessel. Commander La Forge, Counselor Troi, take a shuttle to Starbase sixty seven. Distribute the device to all starships currently docked there.
PICARD: We also have an opportunity to introduce the game to Starfleet Academy.
ETANA (screen): Excellent. See to it. The Ktarians commend your efforts, Picard. Once the expansion is complete, you and your crew will be rewarded.

[Turbolift]
WESLEY: Deck thirty six.
OGAWA: Wesley, at what level are you?
WESLEY: I'm only level ten.
OGAWA: I'm at level forty seven.
WESLEY: That's great.
OGAWA: You know what the secret is, don't you? Don't force it. If you just let the game happen, it almost plays itself.
WESLEY: I'll try that.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: I think we're going to be okay. I've just got one more thing to do. Help me compile the forcefield overrides.
ROBIN: What are you doing?
WESLEY: I created a site to site transporter program. If things get difficult, this'll keep us one step ahead of them. Were able to access the security tracking codes? Robin?
ROBIN: It's your turn, Wesley. Play the game.
RIKER: Get back here!

[Corridor]
RIKER: Computer, activate security containment field. Deck thirty six, section fifty two.
WESLEY: Computer transport program Crusher One.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Bridge. We lost Crusher. It appears he rigged a site-to-site transport.
PICARD: Security alert, condition three. Computer, shut down all transporter systems and shuttlebays. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: I can't track him, sir. He's done something to the internal security sensors. I'll try bypassing his subcommands. Hold on. I'm picking up a piece of his trail, sir. Sensors show power activation in transporter room three. That would put him somewhere on deck six.
PICARD: Seal off deck six. Activate security fields sections twenty three through twenty nine.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We've got him, Captain. Section twenty five. It looks like he's trying to cut through the forcefield with a phaser.
PICARD: Security to deck six, section twenty five.
SECURITY (voiceover): On our way.

[Corridor]
SECURITY: You check left.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Where the hell is he?
WORF: I am attempting to isolate him with thermal sensors.
RIKER: Narrow the scan field. Go deck by deck if you have to.
WORF: Unfortunately, he knows our procedures. He will avoid corridors and public areas. Commander, an unidentified heat source. Deck seven, section twenty three. There.

[Jefferies tube]
WESLEY: No! Let go of me!

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: It's okay, Wesley.
PICARD: You led us quite a chase, Mister Crusher. Doctor Crusher.
WESLEY: No!
PICARD: Hold him steady.
CRUSHER: It's okay, Wesley. It won't hurt.
WESLEY: No!
CRUSHER: You'll like it.
PICARD: His eyes.
CRUSHER: That's right, Wesley. just let it go. Yes, just let yourself go. Relax.
DATA: Computer, resume normal illumination.
DATA: Mister Worf, you will find a small alien ship off the starboard bow. Please secure it with a tractor beam and raise our shields.
WORF: Engaging tractor beam.
DATA: Are you all right, Captain?
PICARD: I think so, Mister Data.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by the alien vessel.
PICARD: On screen.
ETANA (screen): Explain yourself, Picard.
PICARD: The explanation is simple. Your attempt to capture our ship has failed.
ETANA (screen): Release us immediately, or we will open fire.
RIKER: Tactical analysis, Mister Worf?
WORF: Their weapons systems are substantially inferior to ours. They are not a threat.
RIKER: Get her off the screen.
LAFORGE: I can't believe what we were about to do.
RIKER: Data, we deactivated you.
WESLEY: I managed to reconnect his positronic matrix.
DATA: Wesley's subsequent diversions gave me adequate time to modify the palm beacon. The optical burst patterns we programmed were successful in counteracting the addictive effects of the game.
PICARD: And the rest of the crew?
DATA: We programmed the main computer to transmit the same optical burst to all display screens, work stations and terminals throughout the ship.
RIKER: That should reach almost everyone. Take a medical team to treat the rest.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: We'll take the alien ship to the nearest Federation starbase. Ensign, lay in a course.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45212.1. We have delivered the Ktarian vessel to Starbase eighty two and are now on a course to rendezvous with the Starship Merrimack, which will transport Wesley Crusher back to Starfleet Academy.

[Wesley's room]
ROBIN: I never saw you wear these. Afraid someone might see your birthmark?
WESLEY: Now, I wonder who started that birthmark rumor?
ROBIN: I wish you didn't have to go.
WESLEY: Me too.
ROBIN: You'll write, won't you?
WESLEY: Somebody has to kill all those rumors you keep hearing about me.
RIKER (voiceover): Mister Crusher, we've rendezvoused with the Merrimack. Please report to transporter room two.
WESLEY: On my way, sir. I've got to go.
ROBIN: Here. A gift, so you'll remember. Robin's Laws. All one hundred and two of them.
WESLEY: Thanks. Law one hundred and three?
ROBIN: Yes?
WESLEY: A couple of light years can't keep good friends apart. Bye.
BRACKETT: Three weeks ago, one of our most celebrated Ambassadors, an advisor to Federation leaders for generations, disappeared.
SAREK: I gave Spock the benefit of experience, of logic. He never listened.
PICARD: It's been suggested that Spock might have defected.
RIKER: Why would anyone want a Vulcan shield array?
LAFORGE: Beats me, Commander. Every question we answer here seems to bring up two more.
K'VADA: Be careful, android. Some Romulan beauty might take a liking to you. Lick that paint right off your ears. You. Do you know what the Romulans will do to you if they discover who you are?
PICARD: I have a good idea.
WORF: Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
NERAL: What do you know of this human? Jean-Luc Picard, a Starfleet Captain.
PICARD: You've made a mistake.
ROMULAN 1: Quiet. Come with us.
PICARD: I have come on an urgent mission from the Federation. I'm looking for Ambassador Spock.
SPOCK: You have found him, Captain Picard. And now, the conclusion.

[Romulan caves]
SPOCK: What are you doing on Romulus?
PICARD: That was to have been my question of you, sir.
SPOCK: It is no concern of Starfleet.
PICARD: On the contrary, it is very much Starfleet's concern. You're in a position to compromise the security of the Federation.
SPOCK: You may assure your superiors, Captain, that I am here on a personal mission of peace, and I will advise Starfleet when it is appropriate.
PICARD: That is not satisfactory.
SPOCK: You cannot remain here, Captain Picard.
PICARD: And I will not return without a full explanation. Ambassador, with great respect for all that you've achieved on behalf of the Federation, this sort of cowboy diplomacy will not easily be tolerated any more.
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy?
PICARD: If you wish to undertake a mission with obvious repercussions to the Federation, then you should discuss it with the Federation. I'm here as their representative. You'll have to discuss it with me.
SPOCK: That is precisely what I had hoped to avoid.
PICARD: I also have the responsibility of being the bearer of unhappy news.
SPOCK: Sarek? Sarek is dead? Walk with me, Picard.

[Romulan cavern]
SPOCK: I know of your mind-meld with my father which enabled him to complete his last mission.
PICARD: It was an honor. He is a great man.
SPOCK: He was a great representative of the Vulcan people and of the Federation.
PICARD: I was with him before coming here. He expressed his pride in you. His love.
SPOCK: Emotional disarray was a symptom of the illness from which he suffered.
PICARD: No, those feelings came from his heart, Spock. He shared them with me. I know.
SPOCK: Sarek would no more approve my coming here than you do, Picard. For some time now, I've been aware of a growing movement here of people who seek to learn the ideals of the Vulcan philosophy. They've been declared enemies of the state. But there are a few in the Romulan hierarchy like Pardek, who are sympathetic. He asked me to come now, because he believes it may be time to take the first step toward reunification.
PICARD: Reunification? After so many centuries? After so many fundamental differences have evolved between your peoples?
SPOCK: It would seem unlikely to succeed, but I cannot ignore the potential rewards that a union between our two worlds would bring.
PICARD: What is this first step that Pardek suggests?
SPOCK: There is a new Proconsul in the Romulan Senate. He is young and idealistic. He has promised many reforms. Pardek believes that he may be receptive to discussing reunification.
PICARD: Why would you not bring something so important to the attention of your own people or the Federation?
SPOCK: A personal decision, Captain. Perhaps you are aware of the small role I played in the overture to peace with the Klingons.
PICARD: History is aware of the role you played, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Not entirely. It was I who committed Captain Kirk to that peace mission, and I who had to bear the responsibility for the consequences to him and his crew. Quite simply, I am unwilling to risk anyone's life but my own on this occasion. So I ask you respect my wishes and leave.
PICARD: Ambassador, your logic escapes me. If I didn't know better, I would say that your judgment is influenced by your emotions.
SPOCK: You speak as my father would if he were here, Picard.
PICARD: I speak as a Starfleet officer, and I cannot ignore the risks to you.
SPOCK: I was involved with cowboy diplomacy, as you describe it, long before you were born.
PICARD: Nevertheless, sir, I'm not prepared to leave until your affairs are completed.
SPOCK: In your own way, you are as stubborn as another Captain of the Enterprise I once knew.
PICARD: Then I'm in good company, sir.

[Klingon bridge]
K'VADA: We have more important things to attend to than acting as your nursemaids.
DATA: Captain Picard regrets detaining you, but it will be necessary for a while longer. In addition, I require access to your ship's computer.
K'VADA: Access to our computer? For what purpose?
DATA: I am going to attempt to penetrate the Romulan Central Information net.
K'VADA: Don't bother. We've been trying for years.
DATA: I have unique skills that may allow me to succeed.
K'VADA: I cannot reveal classified Klingon entry codes to Starfleet.
DATA: Your entry codes can be easily reconfigured after we depart. And Captain Picard has authorized me to share with you any information we obtain from the Romulan databanks.
K'VADA: Anything else?
DATA: We will also need to communicate with the Enterprise in sector two thirteen.
K'VADA: You do and the Romulans will instantly know our co-ordinates.
DATA: Using conventional means, that would be true. However, I suggest we piggy-back our signal on Romulan subspace transmissions.
K'VADA: Piggy-back?
DATA: A human metaphor, pardon me. We would use a Romulan signal as a carrier for own one, thus disguising its origin.
K'VADA: It won't work.
DATA: I believe it would. During the last hour, I have conducted a systematic review of the entire Romulan subspace grid. I have compared my findings with the specifications of your own transmission array. They appear to be compatible.
DATA: Thank you for your co-operation.

[Cafe]
ROMULAN 1: Allow me to brighten your table. Jolan tru.
SPOCK: The Senate has adjourned. Pardek will be here shortly.
PICARD: How widespread is this movement?
SPOCK: There are groups in every populated area. I've personally spoken with members from four provinces. It has become a serious concern for the Romulan leadership.
PICARD: Serious enough for the leaders to suddenly embrace a Vulcan peace initiative? I have some difficulty in accepting that.
SPOCK: I sense you have a closed mind, Captain. Closed minds have kept these two worlds apart for centuries. In the Federation, we have learned from experience to view the Romulans with distrust. We can either choose to live with that enmity or seek an opportunity to change it. I choose the latter.
PICARD: I will be the first to cheer when the Neutral Zone is abolished. But I wonder if this movement is strong enough to reshape the entire Romulan political landscape.
SPOCK: One can begin to reshape the landscape with a single flower, Captain.
D'TAN: Jolan Tru, Mister Spock. Here, look what I've brought you.
SPOCK: This is my friend, D'Tan. He's very curious about Vulcan.
PICARD: Hello, D'Tan.
SPOCK: Where did you get this? This is very old.
D'TAN: They read to us from it at the meetings. It tells the story of the Vulcan separation.
PARDEK: D'Tan, you should not bring that out here. You've been told many times.
D'TAN: I just wanted to show it to Mister Spock.
PARDEK: Off with you. We'll see you later tonight.
D'TAN: Will you tell us more stories about Vulcan?
SPOCK: Yes, I will.
D'TAN: Jolan Tru.
PARDEK: Perhaps this is not such a good place to talk.

[Romulan street]
PARDEK: So, what do you think of your enemy, Captain Picard?
PICARD: These people are no one's enemy, Senator.
PARDEK: Many of my colleagues fear what they have to say. But I have learned to listen carefully. Children like D'Tan are our future. Old men like me will not be able to hold on to ancient prejudice and hostility. Young people won't allow it. But now, now that they've met their first real Vulcan, it has only inspired them more. I am sure that is evident to you, Spock.
SPOCK: I did not anticipate such a passionate response to my arrival.
PARDEK: Romulans are passionate people. The Vulcans will learn to appreciate that quality in us.
SPOCK: If we are successful.
PARDEK: We will know soon. The Proconsul has agreed to meet with you. First Officer's log, stardate 45245.8. The Enterprise remains at Qualor Two as we continue to investigate the theft of a surplus Vulcan ship. The trail has led us to the former wife of a deceased smuggler.

[Piano bar]
AMARIE: A new face.
RIKER: Same one I've always had.
AMARIE: And what would you like to hear?
RIKER: Know some blues?
AMARIE: Look at me, Mister. What do you think? Seven different shades of them. How about some Andorian blues? Suck salt?
RIKER: Never cared for it.
AMARIE: Good for you. Nasty habit. So who are you looking for?
RIKER: Who says I'm looking for anybody?
AMARIE: Your face. Your uniform. In a place like this.
RIKER: Okay. I'm looking for you.
AMARIE: Oh, you just made my day.
RIKER: I have to ask you about your husband.
AMARIE: Well, it was nice while it lasted. Which husband?
RIKER: The dead one, I'm afraid.
AMARIE: Oh, you must be from the Enterprise. You destroyed his ship.
RIKER: He was into some bad business. He took the evidence with him.
AMARIE: His one endearing quality, he always cleaned up after himself. And what do you want from me?
RIKER: I was hoping you might know his business partners.
AMARIE: And why should I help you?
RIKER: To be honest, I can't think of a good reason.
AMARIE: Well, you did kill my ex-husband, and that's not a bad start. So why don't you drop a few coins in the jar and I'll see what I remember.
RIKER: I don't carry money.
AMARIE: Well, you don't offer much, do you?
RIKER: Move over.
AMARIE: Oh, just what I need. Another set of hands.
RIKER: You know this one? Twentieth century, Earth. Maybe I can teach you a lick or two.
AMARIE: You already have.
RIKER: So, what do you say?
AMARIE: You going to be around for a couple of days?
RIKER: I can be.
AMARIE: Sooner or later, a man named Omag will come by for a song. Always wants to hear the same thing, Melor Famagal. He's an arms trader. A fat Ferengi.

[Romulan office]
NERAL: Enter.
PARDEK: Proconsul?
NERAL: Yes. Pardek, come in.
PARDEK: Ambassador Spock of Vulcan.
SPOCK: Proconsul.
NERAL: Please. I've never liked titles since I was a lowly Uhlan in the Romulan guard. I am Neral. How is it again, Pardek's tried to show me.
SPOCK: I am honored.
NERAL: Good.
PARDEK: Permit me to withdraw.
NERAL: Will we see you and your wife tomorrow at the state dinner?
PARDEK: We're looking forward to it.
NERAL: It's been years since old Pardek's been invited to an official function. He's far too attached to the common man for most peoples' comfort.
SPOCK: That is their loss. I have found Pardek to have a unique insight into many issues.
NERAL: Let me tell you something, Spock. We're going to start something here, you and I, that will redraw the face of the quadrant.
SPOCK: Are you prepared to support reunification?
NERAL: I believe it must eventually come. Our two worlds need each other.
SPOCK: Forgive me, I did not expect to hear a Romulan Proconsul speak like a member of your underground.
NERAL: I want you to know exactly where I stand.
SPOCK: And do you believe that you can gain the support of your full Senate?
NERAL: Things are not what they once were in the Senate. The old leaders have lost the respect of the people. Involvement in the Klingon War, endless confrontations with the Federation, they're tired of it. Times are changing, and leaders who refuse to change with them will no longer be leaders. Spock, I am prepared to publicly endorse the opening of talks between our peoples. What do you think the Vulcan people think of that?
SPOCK: They will be cautious. There are generations of distrust to overcome.
NERAL: But surely with a man of your influence leading the way?
WOMAN (voiceover): Proconsul, the Senate has been recalled into session.
NERAL: Very well. Can we meet again tomorrow?
SPOCK: As you wish.
NERAL: Good. Jolan tru, Spock. Oh. Live long and prosper.

[Romulan caves]
ROMULAN 1: It's everything we could have hoped for.
SPOCK: It is more than we could have hoped for.
PARDEK: But if Neral is ready to publicly endorse reunification.
PICARD: It's hard to believe that he could rise to the rank of Senate Proconsul without the support of the Romulan traditionalists.
PARDEK: That may be true.
PICARD: Then how can he turn his back on them so easily? How can he endorse reunification when it's considered subversive?
ROMULAN 1: Because he's not afraid of them. He knows that we'll support him.
SPOCK: Captain Picard is correct. It is not logical for the Proconsul to support reunification at this time.
WOMAN 2: Why would Neral lie?
PICARD: Perhaps because he's hoping to expose members of your movement.
WOMAN 2: No, this is our chance for acceptance. Finally to be heard.
ROMULAN 1: I believe it's the Federation that fears an alliance between Romulus and Vulcan.
PICARD: That is not true.
SPOCK: I came here to determine the potential for reunification. In spite of what has occurred, I intend to continue with my efforts. I intend to meet with the Proconsul as planned.

[Romulan cavern]
PICARD: You let their emotion sway you.
SPOCK: On the contrary, I am pursuing the most logical course.
PICARD: You are as skeptical as I am. Is it logical to ignore your own good sense?
SPOCK: I fear the influence of Sarek has colored your attitudes, Captain, toward reunification and perhaps toward me.
PICARD: That is the second time you have accused me of speaking with another man's voice. It's true he will always be a part of me. His experiences, his spirit. But I speak with my own voice, not his.
SPOCK: Curious that I should hear him so clearly now that he is dead. It is possible that I have brought my argument with Sarek to you, Captain. If so, I apologize.
PICARD: Is it so important that you to win one last argument?
SPOCK: No, it is not. But it is true that I will miss the arguments. They were, finally, all that we had.
PICARD: But your fight with Sarek is over, Spock, and you have none with me.
SPOCK: I always had a different vision than my father. The ability to see beyond pure logic. He considered it weak, but I have discovered it to be a source of extraordinary strength. Sarek would have seen this mission of reunification as a fool's errand, but somehow I think it is not. Logic cannot explain why, I know that I must pursue this.
PICARD: Even if it leads you into a Romulan trap.
SPOCK: If the Romulans do have an ulterior motive, it is in the interests of all concerned that we determine what it is. So, I will play the role that they would have me play.

[Klingon quarters]
PICARD: Have you had any success, Mister Data?
DATA: Negative, Captain. The Romulan Information net employs a progressive encryption lock. I have been unable to penetrate their security measures.
SPOCK: May I assist you, Commander? I have had some experience in these matters.
DATA: By all means, Ambassador.
SPOCK: The Romulans have incorporated a forty three part cipher key into their entry sequence.
DATA: Yes, sir, the twenty ninth is the only one I cannot bypass.
PICARD: I think I'll take this opportunity to remove my ears.
SPOCK: He intrigues me, this Picard.
DATA: In what manner, sir?
SPOCK: Remarkably analytical and dispassionate, for a human. I understand why my father chose to mind-meld with him. There's almost a Vulcan quality to the man.
DATA: Interesting. I have not considered that. And Captain Picard has been a role model in my quest to be more human.
SPOCK: More human?
DATA: Yes, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Fascinating. You have an efficient intellect, superior physical skills and no emotional impediments. There are Vulcans who aspire all their lives to achieve what you've been given by design.
DATA: You are half human.
SPOCK: Yes.
DATA: Yet you have chosen a Vulcan way of life.
SPOCK: I have.
DATA: In effect, you have abandoned what I have sought all my life.
SPOCK: I believe I have isolated the twenty ninth cipher access code. I shall attempt to access the Proconsul's files.
DATA: Ambassador Spock, may I ask a personal question?
SPOCK: Please.
DATA: As you examine your life, do you find you have missed your humanity?
SPOCK: I have no regrets.
DATA: No regrets. That is a human expression.
SPOCK: Yes. Fascinating.

[Piano bar]
WORF: Do you know any Klingon opera?
AMARIE: I don't get a lot of requests for it.
WORF: Surely, you must know at least one theme from Aktuh and Maylota.
AMARIE: I may be a little rusty.
OMAG: What is that dreadful noise? It sounds like a Bardakian pronghorn moose. You know what I want to hear.
AMARIE: Yes, yes, I know.
WORF: Worf to Enterprise.
RIKER (voiceover): Go ahead.
WORF: A fat Ferengi

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): Has just entered the establishment.
RIKER: Is that Melor Famagal I hear?
WORF (voiceover): It is.
RIKER: I'm on my way.

[Piano bar]
OMAG: Where's the waiter? Is there a waiter in this sorry place?
RIKER: Is there a problem?
OMAG: Yes. I need more napkins.
RIKER: Use your sleeve.
OMAG: What did you say?
RIKER: Or use one of their sleeves, I don't care.
OMAG: Who are you?
RIKER: Commander William Riker, USS Enterprise.
OMAG: Am I supposed to stand up and salute?
RIKER: We're investigating the disappearance of a Vulcan ship.
OMAG: Well you've got the wrong Ferengi. I never trade in Vulcan ships.
RIKER: We know that you're involved.
OMAG: Who would want a Vulcan ship? Vulcans are pacifists. I deal in warships. Can somebody get me a napkin?
RIKER: Who would want a Vulcan ship?
OMAG: Hypothetically speaking?
RIKER: Hypothetically speaking.
OMAG: I never learned to speak hypothetical.
OMAG: Are you crazy?
RIKER: Let me explain what'll happen to you if you don't tell me about the Vulcan ship. Your right of passage through this sector will be revoked and more than that, I will be very unhappy.
OMAG: I delivered it to a Barolian freighter.
RIKER: At what coordinates?
OMAG: I don't remember. Ow! Watch it! You're stretching my neck.
RIKER: Co-ordinates?
OMAG: At Galorndon Core. Near the Neutral Zone. That's all I know. I swear it.
RIKER: Enjoy your dinner.

[Bridge]
RIKER: As soon as I heard this Barolian ship was at the Galorndon Core, I started to think Romulans.
PICARD (screen): And the Romulans are suddenly very interested in bonding with the Vulcans. Spock has been meeting with the new Senate Proconsul about reunification.
RIKER: Reunification?
PICARD (screen): The Proconsul says that he is prepared to endorse peace talks.
RIKER: And Spock?
PICARD (screen): The Ambassador is skeptical, but he cares a great deal about reunification. As long as there's a chance of success, he's prepared to pursue it.
TROI: I'm afraid I don't see how a stolen Vulcan ship fits into all this.
PICARD (screen): Neither do I, Counselor. How soon can you be at Galorndon Core, Number One?
RIKER: A little over eight hours.
PICARD (screen): Well, this may prove to be a wild goose chase, but I don't see that we have any other choice, do you?
RIKER: Agreed.
DATA: We are losing our Romulan carrier wave, sir.
PICARD (screen): We'll advise you further as soon as you reach your destination, Number One. Picard out.
RIKER: Ensign, set a course to Galorndon Core. Take us to warp eight.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Klingon bridge]
DATA: Captain, the Romulan subspace logs identify a transmission from the Romulan surface to a Barolian ship near Galorndon Core twelve hours ago.
K'VADA: Galorndon Core is along the Barolian trade route. They trade a great deal with the Romulans. It's probably just routine.
DATA: This would not appear to be routine. I was able to trace the source of the transmission. It incorporates the code prefix of Romulan intelligence.
PICARD: Can you access it?
DATA: It is a short sequence of numbers. One four zero zero.
PICARD: Nothing more?
DATA: No, sir.

[Romulan street]
D'TAN: Spock! I've been looking for you.
SPOCK: I have been meeting with the Proconsul.
D'TAN: Does he still speak of reunification?
SPOCK: He speaks of nothing else.

[Cafe]
D'TAN: Have you ever seen these?
SPOCK: The syllabic nucleus of the Vulcan language.
D'TAN: They were my toys when I was small.
SPOCK: Your parents wanted you to learn to understand Vulcan?
D'TAN: Yes, as did their parents before them, to prepare us for the day when we would live again with our Vulcan cousins.
ROMULAN 1: Your friends from the Federation have returned. They need to see you immediately. I've told Pardek. He'll meet you at the cave.

[Caves]
PICARD: The only communication that was sent were the numbers one four zero zero.
PARDEK: What does it mean?
SPOCK: It means that the Proconsul has apparently been attempting to deceive me. For what purpose I cannot say yet. But his conversations with me have obviously been part of a greater plan which involves the stolen Vulcan ship.
DATA: How do you know that, Ambassador?
SPOCK: The time the Proconsul set for the subspace announcement of our peace initiative is fourteen hundred hours tomorrow. One four zero zero.
PARDEK: Why would they need a Vulcan ship?
SELA: That will become clear very shortly. Captain Picard, welcome to Romulus. I trust you've enjoyed your visit. And this is the android I have come to respect in battle.
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data.
PARDEK: How could they know of this location? Someone has betrayed us.
SPOCK: Yes. You did.
PARDEK: Spock, we've been friends for eighty years.
SPOCK: It is the only logical conclusion. You asked me to Romulus, you arranged the meetings with the Proconsul, and you knew that Picard and Data had returned to the surface with new information.
SELA: The great Spock. Very well. Senator Pardek, your service to the Romulan people is noted and appreciated.
PARDEK: Jolan tru, Spock.
SELA: Do not be distressed. Your dream of reunification is not dead. It will simply take a different form. The Romulan conquest of Vulcan. Bring them. First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has reached Galorndon Core, near the border of the Neutral Zone.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any signs of life, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
TROI: The Romulans could have a cloaked base on the surface.
RIKER: Or anywhere else along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Sir, a coded subspace signal from Romulus. It's the Captain.
TROI: What?
RIKER: Maintain position at Galorndon Core. Diplomatic initiative appears to be succeeding. Will advise.
WORF: The message did employ the proper coded sequence.
RIKER: Yeah. I'm sure it did.

[Romulan office]
SELA: Come in, gentlemen. Take a seat, please. Excuse me, I'm just finishing up a speech. For you, Mister Spock. I rather enjoy writing. I don't get to do it often in this job.
DATA: Perhaps you would be happier in another job.
SELA: Please feel free to change any words that you wish. I've tried to make it sound Vulcan. A lot of unnecessarily long words. In a few hours, you will deliver this statement alongside our Senate Proconsul. It will announce to the Vulcan people that a peace envoy is on its way from Romulus. We will transmit it on all Federation subspace frequencies.
PICARD: Peace envoy, in a stolen Vulcan ship.
SELA: Actually, three Vulcan ships, Captain. The Enterprise is only aware of the one we stole from Qualor Two. We have been following your investigation. It has forced us to make some minor changes. One of them, a message sent in your name, ordering them to stay where they are.
PICARD: The moment those Vulcan ships appear in the Neutral Zone, the Enterprise will move to intercept.
SELA: In that event, the Enterprise will be given more important matters to attend to. In the meantime, Ambassador Spock will be telling his people to welcome the peace envoy. And when they do, our forces will seize control before anyone realizes what has happened.
PICARD: Do you seriously believe that the Federation will not immediately intervene?
SELA: Of course it will, and we're fully prepared for it. But we will be there, entrenched, and it will be very difficult to get us out once we are. Reunification will become a fact of life.
SPOCK: I will not read this or any other statement.
SELA: If you do not, you will die. All of you will die.
SPOCK: Since it is logical to conclude that you will kill us in any event, I choose not to cooperate.
SELA: I hate Vulcans. I hate the logic. I hate the arrogance. Very well. Computer, holographic program Spock One. By taking advantage of holographic sampling during the last several days, we have created a programmable Spock. Run program! HOLO-
HOLO-SPOCK: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone. These ships carry the future of the Romulan and Vulcan people. Our long conflict is finally over.
SELA: Freeze. We would have preferred an interactive Spock who could have responded to questions, but this will have to suffice.
PICARD: You can hardly believe this will convince anyone.
SELA: I don't need to convince them. Just confuse them long enough to reach Vulcan. End program. If you'll excuse me, it's time to send our ships on their journey.
PICARD: Suggestions?
SPOCK: Commander Data, are they still unaware that we have access to their computers?
DATA: I believe so, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you and I can find a way to create a diversion.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels crossing the Neutral Zone. Vulcan ships.
TROI: Vulcan?
RIKER: What's their heading, Mister Worf?
WORF: One four three mark zero one two.
LAFORGE: That would put them on a course to Vulcan. They don't seem to be in any hurry. They're only moving at warp one, Commander.
RIKER: Worf, signal them on subspace. Request their status. Geordi, see if you can tell if it's one of ships we've been looking for.
WORF: They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan. They request that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador Spock will be making an announcement shortly.
TROI: Perhaps his reunification talks were successful.
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: None of the transponder signatures matches that of the missing ship. They could have been altered. I'll keep checking.
RIKER: Set a course to intercept.
WORF: Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain
RIKER: I know the Captain's orders, Lieutenant. Engage.

[Romulan office]
SELA: Impossible! There's no way they could have gotten out of this room.
RIKER: That's far enough.
RIKER: Stay right where you are. Drop your weapons.
SELA: How did you get in here?
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
SELA: Cease fire. Holograms.
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know too much about Romulan disruptor settings.
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy?
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data. Though I don't think you got Commander Riker's hair quite right.
DATA: I will be more observant in the future, sir.
SELA: It doesn't matter what you do now. Spock's announcement will be made in minutes. Our forces will be on Vulcan before you can alert anyone.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: We've just received a priority one distress call from the colony on Dulisian Four. A massive failure of the environmental support systems. They're going to require evacuation.
RIKER: Mister Worf, any other ships in the vicinity of Dulisian Four?
WORF: One, sir. A Rutian archeological vessel.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's not equipped to handle something of this scale, Will.
RIKER: Geordi, any update on the Vulcan ships?
LAFORGE: I've checked every sensor display backwards and forwards. If the Romulans altered them, they didn't leave any fingerprints. I can't tie any of them to the surplus yard.
WORF: The Vulcan ships have entered Federation space. Maintaining low warp.
RIKER: Lay in a new course to Dulisian Four.
WORF: Incoming message from Romulus on all subspace channels.
RIKER: On screen.
SPOCK (screen): This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone. These ships carry a Romulan invasion force and must be stopped. I repeat, these ships carry a Romulan
RIKER: Doctor, contact Dulisian Four and confirm this distress call. I have a feeling it may prove to be a false alarm. Mister Worf, how long before we intercept the Vulcan ships?
WORF: Fourteen minutes, sir.

[Romulan office]
DATA: Communication lines have been terminated at the transmitter, but I am quite certain the message was sent prior to the interruption.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data.
SELA: You'll never get out of this building.
DATA: I disagree, Commander. After studying the design of this structure, I have determined that our best route of escape would be the underground exit to the east of this wing. I have disconnected certain security scanners to assist us. I am afraid we cannot permit you to warn your guards.
SPOCK: Not bad.

[Bridge]
WORF: The Vulcan defense vessels are also responding. The Romulan force is retreating toward the Neutral Zone.
RIKER: They're not taking those Vulcan ships home with them.
WORF: Visual range, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Romulan warbird decloaking alongside the Vulcan ships.
RIKER: Red alert.
RIKER: Advise the warbird to withdraw from Federation space, and tell them to leave the Vulcan ships where they are.
WORF: The warbird is powering up its forward disruptor array.
RIKER: Ready phasers.
LAFORGE: There were over two thousand Romulan troops on board those ships.
TROI: They destroyed their own invasion force.
RIKER: Rather than let them be taken prisoner. Stand down Red alert. Mister Worf, advise the Klingon ship to signal us as soon as Captain Picard and Data are safely aboard.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Other Caves]
D'TAN: This way. Pardek never saw these caves. It's safe. They won't find us here.
PICARD: What will you do now ?
WOMAN 2: What we have always done. Continue to teach. Pass on the ideals to a new generation. Work for the day when new thoughts may be spoken aloud.
PICARD: The Federation will welcome that day.
DATA: Captain, we will need to reach our transport site in fourteen minutes.
PICARD: I wish you well.
VARIOUS: Thank you. Thank you Captain.
SPOCK: Captain, I will not be coming with you.
PICARD: Ambassador
SPOCK: The reason for my coming here has never been more clear. The union of Vulcan and the Romulan people will not be achieved by politics or by diplomacy, but it will be achieved. The answer has been here before us all along. An inexorable evolution toward a Vulcan philosophy has already begun. Like the first Vulcans, these people are struggling to a new enlightenment. It may take decades, even centuries for them to reach it, but they will reach it. And I must help.
PICARD: I have learned it is useless to argue with you once your mind is set.
SPOCK: Not at all, Captain. I have found our arguments quite useful. Almost as useful as those I had with my father.
PICARD: Would it surprise you to learn that he found them equally valuable?
SPOCK: Ironically, you may know Sarek better than his own son does. My father and I never chose to meld.
PICARD: I offer you the chance to touch what he shared with me.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45233.1. Our terraforming mission to Doraf One has been canceled and the Enterprise recalled to Starbase two thirty four. Fleet Admiral Brackett would not discuss the matter on subspace for reasons she said would soon be clear.

[Ready room]
BRACKETT: I apologize, Captain, for the mystery, but we must attempt to contain the information I'm about to reveal to you at least as long as possible.
PICARD: I must admit you've piqued my curiosity, Admiral.
BRACKETT: Three weeks ago, one of our most celebrated Ambassadors, an advisor to Federation leaders for generations, disappeared. He left no word of his destination. Two days ago, intelligence reports placed him on Romulus and I assure you it was an unauthorized visit. Computer, initiate linkage between this terminal and starbase computer system alpha two nine.
COMPUTER: Linkage complete.
PICARD: A defection?
BRACKETT: If it is, the damage to Federation security would be immeasurable. Taken on Romulus, by long range scanner. Computer, enhance image in section four delta.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45236.4. As I study the intelligence reports on Ambassador Spock's disappearance, I cannot help but feel a deeper, more personal concern about this mission, for I know this man through his father. It was barely a year ago that I shared a mind meld with the Vulcan, Sarek. Now we must meet again as I attempt to find an explanation for his son's actions.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We'll be coming into orbit of Vulcan in less than an hour, Captain.
PICARD: We should tell Sarek's wife of our plans.
RIKER: Already been taken care of. She's transporting over at oh seven hundred.
PICARD: And Sarek?
RIKER: She says he's too ill to make the trip.
PICARD: The man is dying. And it's my honor to tell him that his son may have betrayed the Federation.
RIKER: How well do you know Spock?
PICARD: I met him once. What I know of him comes from history books, and of course my mind meld with his father.
RIKER: That must cover a lot of ground.
PICARD: Not as much as you'd imagine. Sarek and Spock. Well, sometimes, fathers and sons.
RIKER: Understood.
PICARD: Oh, one other thing. Take a look at this. Turned up during an intelligence sweep.
RIKER: Metal fragments.
PICARD: What do you make of it?
RIKER: Possibly disassembled components, identified as Vulcan, recovered from a downed Ferengi vessel?
PICARD: They were found in crates marked Medical Supplies.
RIKER: Contraband.
PICARD: It's been sent to Vulcan for identification. Starfleet have requested that we lend a hand.

[Ready room]
PERRIN: Mint tea. It's been years since I've had it. Vulcans have some kind of strange concoction they call mint. You'd never recognize it.
PICARD: Perrin, do you know why I've come to Vulcan? I must talk to you about Spock.
PERRIN: He didn't even say goodbye to his father before he left.
PICARD: Is it possible he could have been abducted?
PERRIN: No. He wrapped up all of his affairs carefully. He knew he was going.
PICARD: Do you have any idea why he might have disappeared like this?
PERRIN: Captain, as far as I'm concerned, he disappeared a long time ago.
PICARD: Would it be inappropriate to ask what happened between you and Spock?
PERRIN: Not between us. Between Spock and his father. They had argued for years. That was family. But when the debates over the Cardassian war began, he attacked Sarek's position publicly. He showed no loyalty to his father.
PICARD: I was not aware that Sarek was offended by Spock's opposition.
PERRIN: I was offended. I made sure Spock knew it. I'm very protective of my husband. I do not apologize for it.
PICARD: Does Sarek have any idea why Spock might have left?
PERRIN: I don't know. If you could see Sarek as I do, wasting in bed, whispering to himself. He wants to see his son. He wants to heal any rift that may still remain. Now, it may be too late.
PICARD: Perrin, would you allow me to see Sarek?
PERRIN: If it were anyone else I would never permit it, but you are a part of him and he of you.

[Cargo bay]
RIKER: The Vulcans haven't figure out what these fragments are but they've determined that the metal is a dentarium alloy.
LAFORGE: That pretty well indicates that they're Vulcan. And dentarium also means that whatever this was, it was originally designed for use in space. From the look of the damage, it must've been a high speed impact.
RIKER: Yeah. A Ferengi cargo ship that went down in the Hanolin asteroid belt. The debris was spread over a hundred square kilometers.
LAFORGE: Could it be a weapons array?
RIKER: That was my first thought, but the Vulcans have no record of any stolen weapons or stolen parts, for that matter.
LAFORGE: This is going to be like putting together a big jigsaw puzzle when you don't know even know what the picture's supposed to be.
RIKER: Yep.

[Sarek's chamber]
PERRIN: He is like this most of the time. His emotions have taken over. Sometimes, I can bring him out of it. Sarek! You will listen!
SAREK: Go from me!
PERRIN: Picard is here.
SAREK: No more chaos! No more.
PERRIN: I will leave you alone with him. He will either acknowledge you or he won't.
PICARD: Sarek! I've come a long way to see you.
SAREK: I will not answer!
PICARD: I must speak to you about your son.
SAREK: I wish no one with me.
PICARD: About Spock.
SAREK: Spock?
PICARD: Yes. He's missing.
SAREK: Is that you, Picard?
PICARD: Hello, old friend.
SAREK: You're here, on Vulcan.
PICARD: I need your help. I must find Spock.
SAREK: He's not here.
PICARD: I know. He's been reported on Romulus.
SAREK: On Romulus?
PICARD: Yes.
SAREK: why?
PICARD: I had hoped to find that out from you.
SAREK: On Romulus? You're going there, aren't you? To find him.
PICARD: Yes. Do you have any idea what might have taken him to Romulus?
SAREK: No.
PICARD: Is there anyone on Romulus he might know, or choose to contact?
SAREK: Pardek?
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: It could be Pardek.
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: He is a Romulan Senator. Spock has maintained a relationship with him over the years. I don't know how they met. At the Khitomer Conference, I'd imagine.
PICARD: Pardek represented Romulus?
SAREK: Yes, I'm sure he did. In fact, I recall Spock coming to me with optimism about a continuing dialogue with the Romulans. I told him it was illogical to maintain such an expectation. Spock was always so impressionable. This Romulan, Pardek, had no support at home. Of course, in the end I was proven correct. I gave Spock the benefit of experience, of logic. He never listened. Never listened.
PICARD: It's been suggested that Spock might have defected.
SAREK: Never! I will accept many things, but never that.
PICARD: But you believe he might have gone there to see Pardek?
SAREK: The Romulan Senator? How do you know Pardek?
PICARD: I've heard of him.
SAREK: That's what he's done. He's gone to see Pardek.
PICARD: Do you know what business they might have together?
SAREK: No. I never knew what Spock was doing. When he was a boy, he would disappear for days into the mountains. I asked him where he had gone, what he had done, he refused to tell me. I insisted that he tell me. He would not. I forbade him to go. He ignored me. I punished him. He endured it, silently. But always he returned to the mountains. One might as well ask the river not to run. But secretly I admired him, the proud core of him that would not yield.
PICARD: Sarek, we're a part of each other. I know that he has caused you pain but I also know that you love him.
SAREK: Tell him, Picard.
PICARD: Peace and long life.
SAREK: Live long and and. Live long and. Spock. My son.
PICARD: And prosper.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45240.1. To cross the Neutral Zone, I will require a cloaked ship. To that end, I have set a course for the Klingon home world. After all we did for Gowron during the recent war, I am certain he will be happy to return a favor.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Still no response from the Klingons, Mister Worf?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: He's ignoring me. What other explanation is there?
RIKER: Seems after hailing him for three days, he could've found a minute to talk to you.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant?
WORF: I believe I know why our messages are not being answered. Gowron has been rewriting Klingon history.
RIKER: Rewriting history?
WORF: Yes. He is claiming it was his courage, his genius, which brought an end to the civil war.
PICARD: I see.
WORF: In the new version there is no mention made of the Federation's help in his rise to power.
RIKER: If Worf's right, then our arrival would be an uncomfortable reminder of the facts.
PICARD: He can take all the credit he wants, I don't caret. But I do need a ship. Well if Gowron won't talk to me, get someone who will. Somebody on the High Council. K'Tal, perhaps.
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, I have a visual identification of Senator Pardek of Romulus. This is a Barolian record of a trade negotiation in which Pardek participated four years ago.
PICARD: That's all?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Run it again. Computer, freeze. Call up the intelligence scan of Spock on Romulus. Computer, enhance far left figure and compare. Same man. Pardek. One question answered. What do we know of him?
DATA: He has been in public service since he was a young man, a senator for nine decades. He is considered a man of the people. He has sponsored many reforms. Reportedly, Romulan leadership considers him to be somewhat of a radical because he has been an advocate of peace throughout his career.
PICARD: I can see why Spock would cultivate a relationship with him. Where would we find him other than on the floor of the Romulan Senate?
DATA: The district he represents is called the Krocton segment. He maintains a dwelling there.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: There is more, sir. I have taken the liberty of expanding the parameters of my search, and have discovered that Pardek has several relatives in the Krocton segment. I believe you will be able to locate him there on the third day of the Romulan week when the Senate is not in session.
PICARD: Mister Data, your resourcefulness never ceases to amaze me.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by the Klingon home world.
PICARD: Gowron or K'Tal?
WORF: Neither, sir. It is the junior adjutant to the diplomatic delegation.
RIKER: Junior adjutant.
PICARD: Name.
WORF: B'iJik, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
B'IJIK (screen): Greetings, Captain. I regret to inform you that Gowron and the High Council are quite busy and won't be able to speak with you today.
PICARD: Is Gowron aware that we have been transmitting messages for the past three days?
B'IJIK (screen): Captain, Gowron wishes it were possible to talk with everyone who wants an audience. But he is one man. The demands on his time are formidable. If you would like me to take him a message.
PICARD: A message? Very well. Tell Gowron, leader of the High Council of the Klingon Empire, that his Arbiter of Succession, Jean-Luc Picard, needs a favor.
B'IJIK (screen): A favor?
PICARD: I require a cloaked vessel.
B'IJIK (screen): A cloaked vessel. This is no small favor, Captain.
PICARD: It is for a mission that could have repercussions throughout the quadrant.
B'IJIK (screen): How would it benefit the Klingon Empire? I'm sure Gowron will ask.
PICARD: The only benefit to the Klingon Empire would be our gratitude.
B'IJIK (screen): That is what you want me to tell him?
PICARD: Yes. And please add that if he is unable to provide a ship, then I am sure there are others in the Klingon Empire who would be willing to help me. And then, they would have our gratitude.
B'IJIK (screen): I see.
PICARD: Also, please tell him that I am immensely gratified that he is prospering so well. A tribute to his skilled leadership.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: They're not removable, are they, Data?
DATA: Removable?
CRUSHER: Your ears.
DATA: No, Doctor. They are fully integrated components.
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some molds of his ears as well.
PICARD: What about his skin color?
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some tests on his skin pigmentation. Changing it to appear Romulan shouldn't be too difficult. We just have to make sure we can change it back again afterwards. Your right eye is point zero zero four higher than your left.
PICARD: Nobody's perfect, Doctor, but
CRUSHER: If you want a proper fit to your prosthetic, trust your tailor.
PICARD: Anything from Gowron?
RIKER: No, sir. But after your tailor is done, would you join me in the cargo bay? Mister La Forge has made some progress with the metal fragments.
CRUSHER: These two still have an appointment with Mister Mott to have their hairpieces designed.
PICARD: Thirty minutes, Number One.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: What we seem to have here is a navigational deflector array. Or at least what's left of one.
RIKER: Why would anyone want a Vulcan shield array?
LAFORGE: Beats me, Commander. Every question we answer here seems to bring up two more.
PICARD: You're certain this is Vulcan?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Metallurgical analysis confirmed that and by running a molecular pattern trace, we were actually able to identify the ship as T'Pau. It was decommissioned years ago and sent to the surplus depot at Qualor Two. As far as anybody knows it's still there.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant?
WORF (voiceover): A Klingon vessel is decloaking off our port bow. Compliments of Gowron.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you convey my gratitude to the Captain and advise him that Mister Data and I will be transporting over shortly.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: I'd like to take the Enterprise to Qualor Two, sir. See what's out there.
PICARD: Agreed. Thank you, Mister La Forge.

[Klingon Bridge]
K'VADA: I know my duty, Captain. When I am given orders, I follow them, but I do not like secrets. I want to know why we are going on this mission.
PICARD: I'm sorry. It's a classified matter.
K'VADA: You're going after the defector, aren't you?
PICARD: Defector?
K'VADA: Do you think information like that stays a secret? Ambassador Spock has gone to Romulus and you are going after him.
PICARD: Captain, your orders are to take us to a set of co-ordinates near Romulus and to bring us back, and that is all I am prepared to discuss.
K'VADA: If we are discovered by the Romulans it means death for us all.
PICARD: I realize that.
K'VADA: Hechu' ghoS. Very well, Captain. We have set a course for Romulus.

[Klingon quarters]
K'VADA: It may not be what you're used to on a Starfleet ship.
PICARD: Quite nice. Thank you.
DATA: Captain K'Vada, is this the Captain's quarters, or my own?
K'VADA: Both. We have limited space. We are a military ship, not a pleasure craft.
PICARD: Of course. This will be fine.
K'VADA: You'll sleep Klingon style. We do not soften our bodies by putting down a pad.
PICARD: Good. I prefer it that way.
K'VADA: You'll take your meals with us but we do not serve Federation food.
PICARD: I've been looking forward gagh. Haven't had it for quite a while. Very fresh.
KLINGON (voiceover): MeH HoD.
K'VADA: Jatlh!
KLINGON (voiceover): MeHmaH ghoS.
K'VADA: So'wl'chu'. Well, Captain, we're at the border of the Neutral Zone. You mean to do this, do you?
PICARD: Yes. I do. First Officer's log, stardate 45240.6. The Enterprise is nearing Qualor Two, home of a Federation surplus depot operated by the Zakdorn. We hope to find out how the salvaged deflector array ended up in the hands of the Ferengi.

[Bridge]
WORF: I have made contact, Commander.
RIKER: On screen. I'm Commander William Riker from the Federation Starship Enterprise.
DOKACHIN (screen): Klim Dokachin, Quartermaster, Surplus Depot Zed One Five.
RIKER: I need some information about a Vulcan ship, the T'Pau. It was sent to you a few years ago.
DOKACHIN (screen): Did you arrange an appointment?
RIKER: An appointment? No.
DOKACHIN (screen): Then I will be unable to help you. You may communicate with scheduling.
RIKER: Who does he think he is?
TROI: The Quartermaster of the supply yard, with information you need.
RIKER: Right. Mister Worf re-establish communication.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Dokaychin?
DOKACHIN (screen): Dokachin. Klim Dokachin.
RIKER: Mister Dokachin, the information I need involves a matter of major importance to the Federation. I'll need access to your logs, your files. My people can do the work.
DOKACHIN (screen): I don't allow outsiders into my computer system..
RIKER: All right, one of your people can do the work.
DOKACHIN (screen): I wish I had the people to spare. but I don't.
RIKER: Well, sir what would you suggest?
DOKACHIN (screen): I don't know. Contact me when you reach orbit.
RIKER: I don't believe this.
TROI: He's king of his particular hill, Commander. You'll have to treat him that way.
RIKER: Counselor, this feels like a perfect job for you.
RIKER: Thank you for coming on board, Mister Dokachin.
DOKACHIN: Quite a ship you have.
RIKER: We've tied into your computers, if you'd like to access the files.
DOKACHIN: I don't usually see them in such good condition. By the time they get to me, they're always falling apart.
TROI: Mister Dokachin, we must find this ship and you're the only one who can help us.
DOKACHIN: Who are you?
TROI: Deanna Troi, Ship's Counselor.
DOKACHIN: He probably figures that we don't get to see a lot of handsome women out this way and someone like you might get a little more cooperation from me. He's probably right. What was the name of that ship? The T'Pau? The T'Pau. Vulcan registry. There. Logged in stardate 41334.
LAFORGE: Where's the ship now?
DOKACHIN: Docked. Section eighteen gamma twelve. Do you want me to take you there?
RIKER: I'd appreciate it.
DOKACHIN: Helmsman, lay in a heading one four one by two zero eight. Ahead slow, two hundred kph. I suppose this is your first visit to a junkyard, isn't it? You'd be surprised at some of the things I find on board these ships. I once found a fourteen foot Caldorian eel on board a freighter, in someone's locker.
TROI: Are you serious?
DOKACHIN: If you have time, I'll show it to you. I still have it. Nursed her back to health.
WORF: We are approaching the designated coordinates, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
DOKACHIN: What? Where is it? What happened to it? These are the correct coordinates.
RIKER: The T'Pau is missing?
DOKACHIN: The T'Pau is missing.
RIKER: How could a ship disappear from your depot?
DOKACHIN: I'm not accustomed to losing things, Commander. I will find your ship for you. I have the T'Pau cross-referenced in four different directories.
LAFORGE: When it was brought here was it stripped of material, armament, sensors?
DOKACHIN: Of course.
LAFORGE: Can you tell us what happened to its navigational deflector?
DOKACHIN: It was routed to the Tripoli, a holding vessel on the outer rim of the shipyard.
RIKER: It's not there any more. What's left of that deflector is laid out on the floor of our cargo bay.
DOKACHIN: How can that be?
RIKER: Perhaps we should to pay a visit to the Tripoli.
DOKACHIN: In all the time that the Zakdorn have operated this depot, nothing has ever been lost. Never.
WORF: Approaching the coordinates of the Tripoli, sir.
RIKER: On screen.
DOKACHIN: I do not understand this. This is not possible. We beam goods to the Tripoli on a regular schedule. There was a shipment yesterday. Another is set for today. It must be there.
RIKER: When is today's transport?
DOKACHIN: Just over two hours from now. A shipment of deuterium storage tanks.
RIKER: Ensign, align the Enterprise so we appear to be one of the abandoned ships. Mister La Forge, when we're in position, shut down the engines and all systems except sensors and life support.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: I've a feeling somebody's going to be here to receive those storage tanks. I'd be very interested to know who that is.

[Klingon quarters]
DATA: These quarters were obviously intended for one crewmember, sir. There is but a single sleeping space.
PICARD: I'm sure the Klingons found it amusing to put us in here together.
DATA: Since I do not require sleep, I propose you take the shelf, sir. I am content to stand.
PICARD: Very well, Mister Data. Thank you.
DATA: Are you comfortable, sir?
PICARD: I suppose so.
DATA: Good night, Captain. Sleep well, sir.
PICARD: Thank you.
PICARD: What are you doing?
DATA: Sir? Was I making noise, sir?
PICARD: No, not exactly
DATA: I was processing all of the information we have accumulated on Romulan society. I am preparing for the task of impersonating a Romulan.
PICARD: I see.
DATA: Would you like me to discontinue, sir?
PICARD: No. Please go on.
PICARD: What are you looking at?
DATA: I am not looking at anything, sir. I am continuing to organize my files.
PICARD: But you're looking at me.
DATA: I am sorry if I was disturbing you, sir. I will not look in your direction.
DATA: Do you not wish to sleep, sir?
PICARD: I don't think so, Mister Data. Let's go on with the files.
DATA: I would be happy to. I have been studying the Krocton segment, as you asked, and have selected an appropriate site for our transport.
K'VADA (voiceover): Captain K'Vada to Picard. Please come to the bridge.

[Klingon Bridge]
K'VADA: Captain. We've monitored a subspace message that might interest you.
PICARD: Sarek is dead.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, sensors detect a ship approaching at warp speed.
RIKER: Identification?
WORF: Negative. No transponder signal, no subspace marker.
LAFORGE: Sounds like they don't want to be identified.
WORF: The ship is coming out of warp, sir.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Sensors indicate a combat vessel, origin undetermined, heavily armed. Mass and density suggest that it's fully loaded with cargo. I'd say from these internal scans, a good deal of that cargo is weaponry.
WORF: The ship is entering sector twelve delta four
DOKACHIN: He's taking the position assigned to the Tripoli. The coordinates are identical.
LAFORGE: Commander, readings indicate surface to ship transport has begun.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, bring the engines back online and restore all systems to normal.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: He's powering up engines, turning to starboard.
RIKER: Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
RIKER: This is Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. Identify yourself. I repeat, you have entered a Federation depot. Identify yourself.
WORF: Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
LAFORGE: That ship easily matches our armament, Commander.
WORF: It's coming about.
RIKER: If you do not respond to our hails, we will take that as evidence of hostile action.
WORF: There is an energy build up in their phaser banks. Sir, they're activating weapons.
WORF: Forward shields down to seventy two percent.
RIKER: Boost power to the shields.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Worf, lock onto their weapon systems only and prepare to fire.
WORF: Forward shields down to sixty eight percent, aft shields forty percent.
RIKER: On my mark, point seven five burst. We just want to get their attention.
WORF: Ready, sir.
RIKER: Fire.
WORF: Their forward shields are damaged, sir.
LAFORGE: We destroyed one of their phaser arrays. Looks like collateral damage in the cargo area. Commander, I'm picking up massive power fluctuations, internal explosions. With all the armament that ship is carrying, it's going to blow.

[Klingon quarters]
PICARD: Well, Mister Data? What do you think?
DATA: I would not have thought it possible, sir. I am eager to test the success of our efforts. It does remain to be seen if the Romulans will accept us. Captain, you have seemed unusually pensive since we received the news of Ambassador Sarek's death.
PICARD: Sarek and I share a particular bond. Our lives touched in an unusual way. I admit I feel the effects of his death. The tenor of this mission has changed, Mister Data, at least it has for me. We were sent to confront Spock about his disappearance. Now, I also have to tell him that his father is dead.
DATA: I do not entirely understand, sir. As a Vulcan, Ambassador Spock would simply see death as the logical result of his father's illness.
PICARD: It's never quite that simple, not even for a Vulcan. Certainly not for Spock who is half-human. Years spent in conflict. And now the chance to resolve all of those differences is gone.
DATA: Considering the exceptionally long lifespan of Vulcans, it does seem odd that Sarek and Spock did not choose to resolve those differences in the time allowed.
PICARD: Father and son. Both proud, both stubborn, more alike than either of them were prepared to admit. A lifetime spent building emotional barriers. They're very difficult to break down. And now the time has come, it's too late. It's a difficult moment. It's a lonely one. It's a moment Spock is about to face.

[Klingon Bridge]
K'VADA: Don't you two look sweet. Be careful, android. Some Romulan beauty might take a liking to you. Lick that paint right off your ears. You. Do you know what the Romulans will do to you if they discover who you are?
PICARD: I have a good idea. We're ready to transport down to the surface.
K'VADA: Just so we understand each other, my orders don't include rescue missions.

[Romulan office]
NERAL: Ah, Senator Pardek. You received my message.
PARDEK: I got here as quickly as I could, Proconsul.
NERAL: What do you know of this human? Jean-Luc Picard, a Starfleet Captain.
PARDEK: I know nothing of him.
NERAL: You haven't seen him recently?
PARDEK: To my knowledge, I have never seen him.
NERAL: I have received intelligence indicating he's on his way here. Perhaps here already.
PARDEK: Here on Romulus?
NERAL: Yes. Curious, isn't it. I suppose we'd better find out if the report is accurate or merely rumor. Circulate his likeness among the security forces. Remind them that if he is here, he's probably disguised as one of us.
PARDEK: I'll see to it.

[Romulan street]
DATA: This is definitely the street on which the intelligence scan of Spock and Pardek was taken, sir. Adjusting for the optical distortions, I am able to verify the architectural features.
PICARD: Where were they standing? Data, you're moving about in a very, well, android way.
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I will be more careful.
PICARD: Don't call me Captain.
DATA: I understand, sir. I have found the place where they were standing.
PICARD: Where?
DATA: It is here, at this doorway. A legal intercessor's office. The name is similar to Pardek's. It would appear to be one of his relatives.
PICARD: He's not open for business yet.
DATA: Nonetheless, I recommend we keep this location under observation. I have clearly determined Pardek's routine. On days when the Senate is not in session, he invariably comes to this section after the median hour.
PICARD: Very well. Let's sample the local cuisine, shall we?

[Cafe]
PICARD: Do you happen to know what time the intercessor's office across the way opens?
WOMAN: Why do you want to know?
PICARD: I need his services. He was recommended.
WOMAN: I haven't seen you here before.
DATA: We are here for the day, from the city of Rateg.
WOMAN: Rateg? I don't think so.
DATA: Why do you say that?
WOMAN: You don't sound like you're from Rateg.
DATA: It is a misconception that all Rategs speak with a particular inflection. In fact, there are twelve different
PICARD: We come from several kilometers outside the city.
WOMAN: Or perhaps you come from the security forces to watch the intercessor's office. Is he in trouble?
PICARD: You're mistaken, madam.
WOMAN: Doesn't matter to me. I don't know when he opens. Eat your soup, courtesy of a loyal establishment. Jolan tru.
PICARD: I don't think we can stay here too long.
DATA: We may not have to. Direct your view to the far corner, sir.
MAN: Very good, Senator.
LADY: Senator, we seem to be having some problems
DATA: Is that not Pardek?
PICARD: I believe it is.
DATA: Perhaps you should appear to enjoy your soup, sir.
PARDEK: I'll take care of that. Come.
ROMULAN 1: Do not move.
PICARD: What? You've made a mistake.
ROMULAN 1: Quiet. Come with us.

[Romulan caves]
ROMULAN 1: Wait here.
PICARD: For what? What have you brought us here for?
PARDEK: Welcome to Romulus, Captain Picard. Don't let our soldiers frighten you. We had to get you off the street as quickly as we could. Romulan Security knows that you're here. I am Pardek. You are among friends, Captain.
PICARD: I have come on an urgent mission from the Federation. I'm looking for Ambassador Spock.
SPOCK: Indeed. You have found him, Captain Picard. To Be Continued...
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45349.1. The Enterprise is on its way to Penthara Four, where a type C asteroid has struck an unpopulated continent. The resulting dust cloud could very well create a phenomenon not unlike the nuclear winters of twenty first century Earth. Commander La Forge has begun work on a plan that would counteract the devastation.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'm afraid the numbers coming in are already indicating climatic changes, Commander.
RIKER: What kind of drop can we expect?
DATA: If the Pentharan spheral forecasts are correct, ten to twelve degrees Celsius within the first ten days.
LAFORGE: If it continues like that, their entire ecozystem will be shot to hell.
RIKER: And I doubt they're prepared to cope with the kind of cold that's coming.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Would you join me on the bridge, please.
RIKER (voiceover): Right away, sir.
PICARD: Are you certain, Mister Worf?
WORF: There was a space-time distortion, sir, and there is something back there. We passed within three hundred kilometers of it.
PICARD: It's too close to be a coincidence. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Would a delay of one hour affect your plans?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Not unless another asteroid decides to pay a call on Penthara, sir.
DATA: The odds of that occurring, Captain, are extremely unlikely, given the time frame.
PICARD (voiceover): Thank you, Mister Data.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, bring the ship about. Let's take a look at Mister Worf's distortion.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Worf's what?
PICARD: The Lieutenant's sensors detected a temporal distortion almost in our current course. There's a small object back there that wasn't there a few moments ago.
WORF: The object is fifty kilometers ahead, sir.
PICARD: Full stop, Ensign.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: Dimensions, Worf?
WORF: Approximately five meters in length, sir.
PICARD: Lifesigns?
WORF: No signs of any kind. Our sensors do not penetrate the hull.
PICARD: Try hailing it.
WORF: That's odd.
RIKER: What's odd?
WORF: We've received a response, sir, but
PICARD: Yes, Mister Worf?
WORF: They want you to move over, sir.
PICARD: Reply that the Enterprise isn't going anywhere, Lieutenant.
WORF: Not the Enterprise, Captain. You.
PICARD: What are you trying to tell me?
RASMUSSEN: Oops. Excuse me, Captain, but you were standing right where I needed to be.
PICARD: Who are you?
RASMUSSEN: Rasmussen's the name, sir. Professor Berlinghoff Rasmussen. Ah, this is wonderful. Actually, quite a bit larger than I thought.
PICARD: Really?
RASMUSSEN: Where I come from, every historian knows the bridge of old 1701D.
PICARD: Where exactly do you come from?
RASMUSSEN: Why, Earth. Late twenty sixth century Earth, to be exact. I've traveled back nearly three hundred years just to find you.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Exactly what kind of historian are you?
RASMUSSEN: My focus is on the twenty second through the twenty fourth centuries. Early interstellar history. You know, it was always believed this was on your desk, not here. Fascinating. Don't move it on my account.
PICARD: You can't expect me to believe that the layout of my ready room can possibly be of interest to future historians.
RASMUSSEN: No less so than your legendary modesty, Captain. If I could describe to you what a thrill it is to be here. This is the original.
PICARD: You flatter me Professor, but I can't help but wonder what could possibly have caused you to select me as the subject of your study. Even in this decade, there are far wiser and more experienced humans in and out of Starfleet.
RASMUSSEN: I'd love to tell you, Picard. I really would, but try and imagine what a young Caesar might have done differently had someone had given him a hint of what lay ahead, or if Lincoln had been coerced into changing his theater plans. I truly wish I could be more specific on why you were selected, but I'm afraid the exchange of information will have to flow in one direction only. Five, six, seven meters. Ha! I was right.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Why now?
LAFORGE: Right. If you've came back to study us, to study the captain, why would you pick today? Why not a year ago or a year from now?
RASMUSSEN: Oh, I picked the right day all right. Just wait, you'll see. Do you always sit there, on that side of the table?
WORF: Usually. Why?
RASMUSSEN: It's not important.
RIKER: Professor, at what point does time travel become a tool for historians?
RASMUSSEN: Now, now, Commander, you know better than that. I've studied a great deal about your century, including the fact that you're all quite aware of the dangers of anyone altering the past, and that's exactly what I'd be doing if I were to divulge information like that.
CRUSHER: Telurian plague.
RASMUSSEN: I beg your pardon?
CRUSHER: The telurian plague. Was it cured? I mean, did they find the cure by your century? Oh, it can't do any harm to ask that.
PICARD: I realize that it's difficult, but we must keep to ourselves questions regarding the future. Go on, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: I'll be preparing questionnaires for each of you. Please complete them at your convenience. If you're concerned about a possible breach of security, I'm sure your Captain can make a determination. And thank you in advance for curbing your curiosity.
LAFORGE: If I hand my assignment in on time, can I get a glimpse into next week's poker game?
PICARD: Mister Data, would you escort the Professor to his quarters.
DATA: This way, sir.
RIKER: What did he mean, he picked the right day?
PICARD: You know everything I do, Will.
RIKER: Deanna?
TROI: It's hard to tell, but he is holding something back.
CRUSHER: Of course he is. All the things he could tell us. All the things he would like to tell us.
TROI: It might be that, I don't know.
RIKER: What if he's an imposter? God knows we've seen enough of them.
PICARD: He is human. The medical scans have proved that, right, Doctor?
CRUSHER: He's human, all right.
PICARD: And there was a temporal distortion back there, correct Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And no one can deny that ship of his is unlike anything we've ever seen before.
LAFORGE: The hull is made of some kind of plasticised tritanium mesh. We've nothing like it on record, at least not till now.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I do appreciate your caution. I share it. Bring his vessel into the shuttlebay. Place it under guard.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I realize that this visit is going to be difficult for some of us, but I've examined his credentials, and everything seems to be in order, so I think we should extend to him every courtesy.
WORF: Including questionnaires?
PICARD: Including questionnaires, Mister Worf.

[Turbolift]
RASMUSSEN: This is really a thrill, Data, like running across a Redstone missile or a Gutenberg bible. To think, the Model T of androids.

[Corridor]
DATA: If you're referring to the first production model automobile of the twentieth century, perhaps the subsequent Model A might be a more apt analogy, since I am Doctor Noonian Soong's revised prototype.
RASMUSSEN: I stand corrected.

[Rasmussen's quarters]
DATA: Is there a problem, Professor?
RASMUSSEN: I suppose it will have to do, for now. I'll get you a list of the things I'll be needing, okay?
DATA: Would I be correct, Professor, in assuming that you know whether or not I am still alive in the twenty sixth century?
DATA: Since you seemed to know so much about Captain Picard and the ship, I assumed that you would.
RASMUSSEN: It'd be best if you kept your assumptions to yourself, wouldn't it?
DATA: Yes, sir. Sorry, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45350.3. We have arrived at Penthara Four and can see for ourselves the atmospheric devastation caused by the asteroid impact.

[Penthara science lab]
PICARD: We've located three underground pockets of carbon dioxide, here, here and here. Our drilling phasers can release enough of the gas to form an envelope which would temporarily hold in the heat of the sun.
MOSELEY: We've spend years, decades, trying to avoid anything that would lead to a greenhouse effect and now here we are about to create one on purpose.
LAFORGE: Less than twenty percent of your normal sunlight is getting through that dust, Doctor. If we can hold enough heat in with the CO2, that should give the planet time to mend itself.
WOMAN: Excuse me, Doctor Moseley.
MOSELEY: What now?
WOMAN: New Seattle's reporting a cloud depth of twelve kilometers. Two rivers, tropical rivers, are beginning to freeze.
MOSELEY: We'd better get started before there's nothing left to mend.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Look who's here.
WORF: I hate questionnaires.
CRUSHER: Professor, come and join us.
RASMUSSEN: I hope I'm not intruding.
CRUSHER: Not at all. I'm sure you're the topic of conversation at every table in this room.
RASMUSSEN: As I promised, here are your assignments. I'm sure they'll be painless. Please try and complete them by tomorrow.
WORF: Tomorrow?
RIKER: No problem, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: You're all very calm.
RIKER: Is there some reason we shouldn't be?
RASMUSSEN: History always records where people were, what they were doing, when important events took place. But it rarely remembers their activities say, a week before, or a day or even an hour.
WORF: Are you suggesting that an important event is imminent?
RASMUSSEN: I didn't say that, did I? Please, just go on doing what you were doing and pretend I'm not here.
RIKER: Why is there no record of other future historians traveling back to witness important events?
RASMUSSEN: We're obviously very careful. As a matter of fact, a colleague and I recently paid a call on a twenty second century vessel.
CRUSHER: They hadn't perfected quarantine fields. You probably saw some surgical masks and gloves.
RASMUSSEN: Isn't it fascinating how everyone has different interests when it comes to history. Different perspectives on progress.
RIKER: Would you mind telling me what that is?
RASMUSSEN: Just checking the time. No problem.
RIKER: Is something important supposed to be happening here?
RASMUSSEN: No, it's nothing, nothing. What about you, Commander? What do you see as the most important example of progress in the last two hundred years?
RIKER: I suppose the warp coil. Before there was warp drive, humans were confined to a single sector of the galaxy.
RASMUSSEN: Spoken like the consummate explorer.
RIKER: What is going on? Are you expecting someone?
WORF: Phasers.
RASMUSSEN: I beg your pardon?
WORF: There were no phasers in the 22nd century.
RASMUSSEN: Ah, you see, Doctor? Our Klingon friend is a perfect example of what I was trying to tell you. He views history through the eyes of a hunter, a warrior. His passion lies in the perfection of the tools of violence. How delightfully primitive.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: As soon as we input this atmospheric data from Moseley, the computer should tell us how many holes we'll have to punch.
DATA: What have you learned about the tectonic stability around the drilling sites?
LAFORGE: Couldn't be better. Our scans were all clear and Moseley says there hasn't been so much as a quiver down there in well over a century.
RASMUSSEN: Ah ha, just the two I'm looking for. I've brought you the forms I need you to complete. Shouldn't take any more than a couple of hours.
LAFORGE: We're kind of busy here, Professor. Tomorrow would probably be better. Data, we've got about twenty three thousand thermal simulations. You think you could check them through for anomalies?
DATA: Certainly.
RASMUSSEN: Is that as fast as he can go?
LAFORGE: Not fast enough for you, Professor?
RASMUSSEN: There's little known about Data's efficiency. Almost nothing about his part in this mission. It's a topic of great conjecture.
DATA: Two hundred nine anomalies all within acceptable parameters.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. You're here to witness this mission. That's it, isn't it?
RASMUSSEN: It'd be best if you just thought of me as a fly on the wall, and went about your business.
DATA: I will have your answered questions as soon as possible, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: Data at Penthara Four!
LAFORGE: If you'll excuse me.
RASMUSSEN: Your prosthesis. What do you call it again?
LAFORGE: A visor.
RASMUSSEN: Visor. Right. A visor. You know, I have a picture of you wearing that in my office. How do you like it?
LAFORGE: It allows me to see. I like it just fine.
RASMUSSEN: You know, Homer was blind and Milton. Bach, Monet, Wonder.
LAFORGE: A fly on the wall, huh?
RASMUSSEN: A fly on the wall.
DATA: The computer has configured the drilling pattern and specified depths.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've got everything we need. I'm ready to transport down to the surface.
PICARD (voiceover): I'll notify Doctor Moseley. Good luck, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Gentlemen.
RASMUSSEN: Who said these moments were any less exciting when you know the outcome?
DATA: I know of no one who said that, Professor.

[Penthara Science lab]
LAFORGE: The Enterprise will monitor the CO2 concentrations at six different altitudes. If all goes well, it shouldn't take more than twenty bore sites.
MOSELEY: Let's hope all goes well.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Commander Riker. How are you doing?
RIKER: We've gotten word from the monitoring stations. They're all online. We're ready when you are, Geordi.
LAFORGE: That's excellent. All we need now is an open channel to Data.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Open a channel, Mister Worf, and prepare to fire at target one.
WORF: The computer has locked in phaser depth calculations.
RIKER: Mister Data?
DATA (voiceover): Ready, sir.
RIKER: Fire.

[Engineering]
DATA: Target one is emitting two thousand cubic meters per second.

[Penthara Science lab]
DATA (voiceover): Target two, one thousand six hundred.
MOSELEY: Surface wind patterns over the target are stable.
LAFORGE: You picking up anything at altitude, Data?

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): CO2 concentrations remain unchanged at upper elevations.
RASMUSSEN: Have I missed much?
WORF: Target fourteen complete, sir.
RIKER: Data?

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): What have you got?
DATA: No change, sir.

[Pentara Science lab]
RIKER (voiceover): How are the surface winds, Geordi?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Holding steady, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: The computer has stopped drilling.
RIKER: You should be getting something

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Now, Data.
DATA: Elevated CO2 levels at twenty kilometers, sir.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Now you're

[Penthara Science lab]
LAFORGE: Talking. We've got some new temperatures coming in.
MOSELEY: All thermal monitoring stations are reporting no further temperature drops.
LAFORGE: Correction, Doctor. Two equatorial stations are showing slight increases.
MOSELEY: Thank you. Thank you all. You've given us what we need. Time.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We're glad to be of help, Doctor. The Enterprise will remain in orbit and continue to monitor your progress. Picard out.
RASMUSSEN: You've given us what we need. Time.
PICARD: Ensign, return to synchronous orbit.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
RASMUSSEN: Very clever, Picard. And well done. We've always known how you did it, but to experience the moment, to witness the nuances, it's indescribable.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's after more than a history lesson. I can tell you that.
CRUSHER: What is it? What are you getting from him?
TROI: I don't know. It's like he's trying to confuse us, misdirect us somehow.
RASMUSSEN: There you are. Well, that certainly was exciting, wasn't it?
CRUSHER: Professor, is everything alright? Are you well?
RASMUSSEN: Yes, couldn't be better, thank you. I just thought we might chat about your questionnaire. Buck up, crewman. You're a credit to that uniform.
TROI: I've got some things to take care of.
RASMUSSEN: No, please, Counselor. I would very much appreciate your remaining.
RASMUSSEN: Doctor, in response to my sixth question, you spoke of a neural stimulator. May I see one?
CRUSHER: I don't see why not. Give me a minute.
RASMUSSEN: You don't like me very much, do you?
TROI: I don't dislike you, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: Keep your eyes wide, soldier. You'll be telling your grandchildren how you were there at Penthara Four. But you don't trust me. You should, you know.
TROI: Should I?
RASMUSSEN: Picard's empath won't trust you. That's what they all said.
TROI: Picard's empath?
RASMUSSEN: We're not that unalike, you and I. You possess a sense that is foreign to the others. My knowledge of the future is similar. You know, some of my best friends are empaths. They trust me.
TROI: Why should you care whether I trust you or not?
RASMUSSEN: We're birds of a feather. We're colleagues. We could learn a lot from each other.
TROI: You're right. I don't trust you.
RASMUSSEN: I knew you'd say that.
TROI: I'm sure you did.
CRUSHER: Well, it's nice to see you two are finally getting along.
TROI: I really have to be going.
RASMUSSEN: Thank you.
CRUSHER: Why don't you try a berylite scan? I'd be interested to see where his micro-levels are.
CRUSHER: So, what else can I show you?
RASMUSSEN: You're a very curious woman. No, no, I don't mean curious like that. I mean you're curious about things. About berylite levels, about the future.
CRUSHER: Well, curiosity is why all of us are out here, isn't it?
RASMUSSEN: I understand. But you're different, you're more vibrant. More
CRUSHER: More vibrant. That's nice, I like that.
RASMUSSEN: You know, whenever I travel back, I meet very interesting people, men and women. But I've never anyone who gave me thoughts about not going home.
CRUSHER: You're not supposed to be influencing the past, remember? And I am beginning to feel a little influenced. Anyway, I could be your great, great, great, great, grandmother.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What kind of questions did he have for you, Number One?
RIKER: All he wanted to know about was previous starships. What I thought was innovative about the last Enterprise, the one before that. He said he wanted to see if we had a grasp of the fundamentals.
DATA: His queries to me primarily focused on Doctor Soong's
WORF: Captain, I am detecting a massive earthquake on the surface. Two earthquakes.
PICARD: Location?
DATA: Both epicenters are beneath the two southernmost drill sites, Captain.
PICARD: Is La Forge still down there?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Find him.
RIKER: We've also got some volcanic activity. Pretty severe.
PICARD: Magnify.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here, Captain. Moseley and I are on our way back to his lab.
PICARD: Are you all right?
LAFORGE (voiceover): We're okay, but those were pretty big, sir. If this was Earth, I'd say around an eight or an eight five on the Richter Scale. We're starting to see some volcanic plumes, Captain.
WORF: Two more eruptions, sir.
DATA: It is likely that we overestimated the geologic stability around the CO2 pockets, Captain.
LAFORGE (voiceover): We're in the lab, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
MOSELEY (screen): We're fairly well quake-proof down here, Picard. It's the volcanic dust I'm worried about.
PICARD: What about the dust?
LAFORGE: The ash the volcanoes are throwing into the atmosphere is going to compound the existing problem. In a matter of days, there'll be no sunlight getting through those clouds.
MOSELEY (screen): No amount of CO2 will help us then.
RIKER: Captain, take a look at this. These are the coordinates of the eruptions, and these are the coordinates of the phaser drilling sites.
PICARD: The mantle is collapsing where the pressure was released.
LAFORGE (screen): Captain, Doctor Moseley and I have a couple of ideas, but it's going to take some time to sort out.
PICARD: Sort them out, Commander.
LAFORGE (screen): Aye, sir.
RIKER: We came here to help these people.
PICARD: And look what we've done.

[Data's quarters]
RASMUSSEN: What in God's name is that?
DATA: Music, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: Music?
DATA: Yes, sir. Mozart's Jupiter symphony in C major, Bach's Brandenburg Concerto number three, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, second movement, molto vivace and La Donna e Mobile from Verdi's Rigoletto.
RASMUSSEN: Do you think you could thin it out a bit?
DATA: Computer, eliminate program one. Computer, eliminate program two. Computer, eliminate program three. Computer, half volume.
RASMUSSEN: How the hell can you listen to four pieces of music at the same time?
DATA: Actually, I am capable of distinguishing over one hundred and fifty simultaneous compositions, but in order to analyze the esthetics, I try to keep it to ten or less.
RASMUSSEN: Only four today?
DATA: I am assisting Commander La Forge with a very complex calculation. It demands a great deal of my concentration.
RASMUSSEN: Well, I came to thank you for answering my questions, though I probably should have asked you to limit yourself to fifty thousand words.
DATA: You did ask me to be thorough.
RASMUSSEN: I realize it's hard to believe, Data, but very few records of Doctor Soong's work survived to the twenty sixth century, so it would be invaluable to myself and other historians, if you could provide us with some schematics.
DATA: Certainly, as soon as my work here is completed.
RASMUSSEN: As long as it's before oh nine hundred tomorrow. That's when I'll be heading back.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Data.
DATA: Yes, Worf.
WORF: Commander La Forge is hailing you from the surface, sir.
DATA: Patch him through, please.
LAFORGE (screen): Have you rerun the phase reversal figures, Data?
DATA: There were no errors, Geordi. The variance must be no more than point zero six terawatts.
LAFORGE (screen): Well, I don't see any other choice. We'll continue to run the numbers down here but I doubt we'll come up with anything different. You better inform the captain of the good news and the bad news. La Forge out.
RASMUSSEN: Which do you suppose he's going to want to hear first?

[Ready room]
PICARD: The good news.
DATA: The motion of the dust has created a great deal of electrostatic energy in the upper atmosphere. With a modified phaser blast, we could create a shock front that would encircle the planet and ionize the particles.
PICARD: That would be like striking a spark in a gas-filled room.
DATA: With one exception, sir. The particles would be converted into a high energy plasma which our shields could absorb and then re-direct harmlessly into space.
PICARD: Turn the Enterprise into a lightning rod?
DATA: Precisely, sir.
PICARD: And the bad news?
DATA: If our phaser discharge is off by as little as point zero six terawatts, it would cause a cascading exothermal inversion.
PICARD: Meaning?
DATA: We would completely burn off the planet's atmosphere.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. While Doctor Moseley takes La Forge's plan to the leaders of the colony, I find myself weighing the potential consequences of a more philosophical issue.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: I imagine you know why I've asked you here.
RASMUSSEN: Yeah, I have a fairly good idea.
PICARD: I'm faced with a dilemma. There is a planet beneath us which is slowly turning to ice, and unless we do something about it, I'm told that in a matter of weeks thousands, maybe tens of thousands, will die.
RASMUSSEN: That'd be a shame.
PICARD: Yes, it would. It would be quite a shame.
RASMUSSEN: So, what's your dilemma?
PICARD: Commander La Forge has a possible solution. The margins of error are extremely critical, but if successful, there'll be no more threat.
RASMUSSEN: And if it's not successful?
PICARD: Every living thing on the planet will perish.
RASMUSSEN: So do nothing and thousands will die. Do something and millions could die. That's a tough choice.
PICARD: Not if you were to help me.
RASMUSSEN: You're not suggesting I tell you the outcome of your efforts?
PICARD: Oh no, I'm not. Everything that Starfleet stands for, everything that I have ever believed in, tells me I cannot ask you that. But at the same time, there are twenty million lives down there, and you know what happened to them. What will happen to them.
RASMUSSEN: So, it seems you have another dilemma. One that questions your convictions.
PICARD: Well, I've never been afraid of reevaluating my convictions, Professor, and now, I have twenty million reasons to do so.
RASMUSSEN: And why did you ask to see me?
PICARD: Because your presence gives me potential access to a kind of information that I've never had available to me before, and if I am to re-examine my beliefs, then I must take advantage of every possible asset. It would be irresponsible of me not to ask you here.
RASMUSSEN: However you come to terms with your beliefs, Captain, I must tell you that I'm quite comfortable with mine.
PICARD: How can you be? How can you be comfortable watching people die?
RASMUSSEN: Let me put it to you this way. If I were to tell you that none of those people died, you'd easily conclude that you tried your solution and it succeeded. So, you'd confidently try again. No harm in that. But what if I were to tell you they all died? What then? Obviously, you'd decide not to make the same mistake twice. Now, what if one of those people grew up
PICARD: Yes, Professor, I know. What if one of those lives I save down there is a child who grows up to be the next Adolf Hitler or Khan Singh? Every first year philosophy student have been asked that question ever since the earliest wormholes were discovered. But this is not a class in temporal logic. It's not theoretical, it's not hypothetical, it's real. Surely you see that?
RASMUSSEN: I see it all too well. But you must see that if I were to influence you, everything in this sector, in this quadrant of the galaxy could change. History, my history, would unfold in a way other than it already has. Now what possible incentive could anyone offer me to allow that to happen?
PICARD: I have two choices. Either way, one version of history or another will wend its way forward. The history you know or another one. Now who is to say which is better? What I do know is here, today, one way, millions of lives could be saved. Now isn't that incentive enough?
RASMUSSEN: Everyone dies, Captain. It's just a question of when. All of those people down there died years before I was born. All of you up here, as well. So you see, I can't get quite as worked up as you over the fate of some colonists who, for me, have been dead a very, very long time.
PICARD: Of course, you know of the Prime Directive, which tells us that we have no right to interfere with the natural evolution of alien worlds. Now I have sworn to uphold it, but nevertheless I have disregarded that directive on more than one occasion because I thought it was the right thing to do. Now, if you are holding on to some temporal equivalent of that directive, then isn't it possible that you have an occasion here to make an exception, to help me to choose, because it's the right thing to do?
RASMUSSEN: We're not just talking about a choice. It sounds to me like you're trying to manipulate the future.
PICARD: Every choice we make allows us to manipulate the future. Do I ask Adrienne or Suzanne to the spring dance? Do I take my holiday on Corsica or on Risa? A person's life, their future, hinges on each of a thousand choices. Living is making choices. Now you ask me to believe that if I make a choice other than the one found in your history books, then your past will be irrevocably altered. Well, you know, Professor, perhaps I don't give a damn about your past, because your past is my future and as far as I'm concerned, it hasn't been written yet.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, the electrostatic conditions are about as good as they're going to get. If we're going to try this, now's the time.
RASMUSSEN: Please don't ask me, Captain. I can't help you. I'm sorry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How long will it take to program the phasers, Number One?
RIKER: We've just got to tie in Geordi's atmospheric sensors.
RASMUSSEN: So you've made your choice after all, and without my help.
PICARD: Oh, on the contrary, Professor, you were quite helpful.
RASMUSSEN: How's that?
PICARD: By refusing to assist me, you left me with the same choice I had to began with. To try or not to try, to take a risk or to play it safe. Your arguments have reminded me how precious the right to choose is. And because I've never been one to play it safe, I choose to try. Mister Data, program the firing sequence.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45351.9. Doctor Moseley has met with the colony leaders, who all agree they are willing to take the risk.

[Bridge]
WORF: Warp power has being rerouted to the main deflector dish, Commander.
LAFORGE (screen): Keep those phasers on active surge control, Worf. We're only going to get one shot at this.
RASMUSSEN: Well, this is it!
RIKER: You have the sequence locked in, Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. After an eight point three second burst from the dish, we'll discharge all EPS taps through the phasers.
PICARD: It's time for you return to the ship, Mister La Forge. Mister O'Brien, stand by to transport.
LAFORGE (screen): Excuse me, Captain, but I can be of a lot more help down here. We've going to have to compensate for density variations right up to the last second.
DATA: Doctor Moseley's computers can accomplish the same task, sir. but Geordi would be better able to anticipate unexpected variances.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, you know better than anyone there's no guarantee this will work. If it fails
LAFORGE (screen): There's no guarantee it's going to fail, Captain. I'd like your permission to remain here on the surface.
PICARD: Permission granted.
RASMUSSEN: La Forge remained below.
PICARD: Good luck, Commander.
LAFORGE (screen): Thank you, Captain.
DATA: The deflector dish has been reconfigured, Captain.
RIKER: Proceed, Mister Data.
DATA: Stand by for auto-phaser interlock. Activating deflector beam.
WORF: EPS taps online. Phasers firing.
DATA: Activating shield invertors, now.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE (screen): La Forge here. Still breathing, Captain.
MOSELEY (screen): We've got particulate levels right where they're supposed to be and the sun is shining!
LAFORGE (screen): You see, Captain, I told you there was nothing to worry about.
PICARD: Report back to the ship when you're ready, Commander. Doctor, we'll stay in orbit and analyze the remaining volcanic disturbances, but the best advice would be to let them cool down on their own.
MOSELEY (screen): I'm getting in the habit of thanking you, Picard.
RASMUSSEN: Well, I'd love to see more, but it's nearly time for me to go. I am tickled pink to have had the opportunity of witnessing this, Picard. And you did it all without any help. well, must run. Got some packing to do. You know, you're taller in person, Commander.

[Shuttlebay]
RASMUSSEN: Well, would you look at this. Who would have expected a teary farewell?
PICARD: I'm afraid we're going to have to take a look in your vessel.
RASMUSSEN: Curious till the end, eh, Captain? You can't be serious, Picard. We've been through this more than once.
PICARD: A number of objects have been discovered missing in the last two days, and if they're in your possession, then we would like them returned.
RASMUSSEN: I'm not here in search of relics. I'm sure they'll turn up.
WORF: If you will not open the vessel, I will. With explosives, if necessary.
RASMUSSEN: I doubt you have the means.
RIKER: If we don't get in that thing, I guarantee you don't either.
RASMUSSEN: Considering the sensitive nature of my equipment, I think you'll understand if I request that only Mister Data be allowed to see it.
RIKER: Why Data?
PICARD: Because if I order Data never to divulge what he sees in there, he won't, with the exception of anything that might belong to us.
DATA: Understood, sir.
RASMUSSEN: Back in a minute.

[Time ship]
DATA: I do not believe any of these items belong to you, Professor.
RASMUSSEN: Nor does this. This phaser is set at the highest stun setting. If I'm correct, that is sufficient to immobilize even you.
DATA: Why have you stolen these objects? To put in a museum?
RASMUSSEN: Far too valuable for that. You see, in the century I come from, they haven't even been invented yet.
DATA: But this vessel? And the temporal distortion that coincided with your arrival?
RASMUSSEN: Oh, this is a time pod, and it is from the twenty sixth century. At least that's what the poor fellow said. You see, he decided to travel back to the twenty second century, that's my time, and he had the misfortune of meeting me. His clothes fit quite well, don't you think? Took me weeks to figure out how to work this thing.
DATA: Then you are not an historian.
RASMUSSEN: More of an inventor. Up till a few weeks ago, a dismally unsuccessful one.
DATA: What are your intentions, Professor?
RASMUSSEN: Well, thanks to your captain, it seems my intentions have changed slightly. I was quite content with the notion of returning with those trinkets. I'd invent about one a year. But now, look what fortune has graced me with. You will take a little longer to figure out than a tricorder, but it should be well worth the effort. If the auto timer is programmed the way I think it is, in about two minutes we should be on our way back to a place called New Jersey. I'm afraid you won't be awake for the ride.
DATA: I assume your hand print will open the door whether you are conscious or not.

[Shuttlebay]
RASMUSSEN: That weapon was working yesterday.
DATA: You were correct to suspect him, sir. But he is not from the future, he is from the past.
PICARD: Trying to make my history unfold in a way other than it already has, eh, Professor?
RASMUSSEN: This was all a misunderstanding, Picard. Just let me back in there and we'll forget the whole thing.
PICARD: Now what possible incentive could anyone offer me to allow that?
DATA: I believe you will find all of the missing items in the vessel, sir.
RASMUSSEN: Doctor.
CRUSHER: A very nice performance.
RASMUSSEN: Not all of it. Some of it was real. Captain.
DATA: He claims to be a twenty second century inventor, Captain.
PICARD: A pity you weren't a bit more inventive. If fewer things had disappeared, we might never have suspected you. As it was, the only stumbling block was your ship. Our sensors couldn't penetrate it. But once the door was opened, the computer was able to detect and deactivate everything you'd stolen, including this.
RASMUSSEN: I'd love to hear more, Picard, but I really must get back in that pod.
RIKER: Take him to a detention cell, Mister Worf, and notify Starfleet that we'll be dropping him off at Starbase two one four.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RASMUSSEN: You can't do this. I've got to get back. I don't belong here.
RASMUSSEN: No!
PICARD: I'm sure there are more than a few legitimate historians at Starfleet who will be quite eager to meet a human from your era. Oh, Professor. Welcome to the twenty fourth century.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45376.3. We are approaching the planet Bilana Three, where a new method of propulsion known as the Soliton Wave is being developed. The Enterprise has been asked to participate in one of the first tests of this new technology.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data! Data, isn't this exciting? We are going to witness a moment in history.
DATA: Every nanosecond in this continuum is a moment in history, once it has elapsed.
LAFORGE: No, no, no, no. I mean, we're going to see something that people will talk about for years. I mean, think about it. No more bulky warp engines or nacelles. A ship just generates a Soliton wave and then rides it through space like a surfboard. This is going to be like being there to watch Chuck Yeager break the sound barrier, or Zephram Cochrane engage the first warp drive.
DATA: It should be interesting.
WORF: Very exciting.
LAFORGE: I'm talking to the wrong crowd. Donaldson! Donaldson, you're an engineer.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, you have a subspace communication from the transport ship Milan.
WORF: Transfer the signal to this station.
HELENA (screen): Hello, Worf.
WORF: Mother.
HELENA (screen): I hope you don't mind us dropping in on you like this, but when I heard the Enterprise was to be in this sector, we took the first transport and here we are.
WORF: Is father with you?
HELENA (screen): No, but I brought Alexander with me. I thought the two of you would like a chance to visit.
WORF: Very well. I will make arrangements for you to come aboard.
HELENA (screen): Good.

[Transporter room]
HELENA: Worf. Worf. It's so good to see you. You look wonderful. Is that a touch of gray in your beard? Don't worry, the Rozhenko men have always had beards of iron gray.
WORF: Hello, Alexander.
ALEXANDER: Hello.
WORF: It is good to see you both. How long can you stay?
ALEXANDER: I'm not going back.

[Ten Forward]
HELENA: Did you see the look on Alexander's face when he saw the play area? He's going to love it here.
WORF: Mother, why does Alexander believe he is remaining?
HELENA: Lapsang suchong tea, please. Have you been eating? You look thin.
WORF: Mother.
HELENA: When your father was in Starfleet, I always had to make sure that
WORF: Mother. We need to talk about Alexander.
HELENA: Alexander is a fine boy, Worf. He's smart and he's high-spirited. Like you were at that age. Sometimes, when he comes running through the house and knocks over that big green lamp, just like you used to do.
WORF: I don't remember you smiling when I knocked over that lamp.
HELENA: Well maybe once, when you weren't looking. When we learned Alexander was to come to live with us, we were so happy. The house had been so empty since you left, and we thought here is our chance to fill it with the sound of children again. But the truth is, Worf, your father and I, we're getting old.
WORF: Mother, you both have many years
HELENA: I don't mean we're ready for the grave. Not yet, anyway. But we're a little less active. It's harder for us to keep up with Alexander. We're ready to be just grandparents. Alexander needs to be with his father.
WORF: Mother, that is not possible. We must find another option.
HELENA: He needs his father, Worf. Alexander's, he's having difficulties.
WORF: Difficulties?
HELENA: He's disobedient.
WORF: Mother, Klingon children are often difficult to control.
HELENA: I do know something about how Klingon children behave. It's not just his willful attitude. He doesn't always tell the truth.
WORF: My son is a liar?
HELENA: He is a boy, Worf, and boys sometimes take the wrong path. They need guidance. He needs a father, his father, to give him that guidance. I have to leave soon. The transport will be leaving for Earth. You must do what you think is best for him. That's all a parent can hope to do.

[Corridor]
WORF: Did you enjoy going to school on Earth?
ALEXANDER: Yes.
WORF: Did you like your teachers?
ALEXANDER: Yes.
WORF: Good. I understand you lived in my old room.
ALEXANDER: Ah ha.
WORF: Good.

[Mrs. Kyle's office]
KYLE: Come in. Lieutenant Worf. Very nice to see you again. And you must be Alexander. I hear you'll be coming to school with us for a while? Well, we're very excited to have you with us. I know the other boys and girls will be happy to have a new classmate. First I need to get a little information from you. Let's start with your name. Alexander Rozhenko. That's a tough one. Maybe you can help me with that. Could you spell your last name for me?
WORF: Alexander. The teacher asked you a question.
KYLE: It doesn't matter. I think I can figure it out. Date of birth?
ALEXANDER: The forty third day of Maktag, stardate 43205.
WORF: Yes. Yes, of course.
KYLE: I'll get the rest of his personal records from the school on Earth, and, oh, one last question. How long will he be staying aboard ship?
WORF: It has not been decided.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Mister Worf, I thought our meeting was scheduled for eleven hundred hours.
WORF: I apologize for being late, Captain. I was detained in school. I was enrolling my son in class.
PICARD: I see. Well, Mister Worf, as you're aware, several new security officers will be transferring to the Enterprise next week and I would like to discuss.
KYLE (voiceover): Kyle to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf here.
KYLE (voiceover): I'm sorry to bother you again, Lieutenant, but I forgot to mention that we need to arrange for a series of placement examinations for Alexander. If you could tell me when
WORF: This is not a good time. I will contact you shortly, Miss Kyle. Sorry, Captain.
PICARD: I would like to discuss with you the specific areas of ship's security that I would like
CRUSHER (voiceover): Sickbay to Worf.
WORF: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER (voiceover): I need to schedule a physical examination for Alexander. I also need his complete medical records from Earth and the medical records of his
WORF: I would rather discuss this at a later time.
CRUSHER (voiceover): There's no rush. Crusher out.
PICARD: Mister Worf. You are not the first officer on this ship to have a new family member. Take care of your son. The security matters can wait.
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

[Observation lounge]
JA'DAR: Twenty three field coils, working in concert, will generate the soliton wave from this point on the planet surface. We will have our test ship towed to a position approximately two million kilometers from Bilana Three. If our theories are correct, the wave will envelop the ship and push it into warp.
PICARD: Warp without warp drive.
RIKER: They're going to put you out of a job, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I hope so, Commander.
DATA: Doctor Ja'Dar, how closely will the Enterprise need to follow the test vehicle?
JA'DAR: The soliton emits a great deal of subspace radio interference. You'll need to remain within twenty kilometers in order to receive telemetry.
PICARD: Doctor, how will you end the experiment?
JA'DAR: The wave will be directed toward Lemma Two, about three light years distance. Our sister facility there which will generate a scattering field which will dissipate the wave and bring the ship out of warp. I'll be sending you more detailed operational plans within the hour.
PICARD: Very well, Doctor. We'll contact you again once we've finished studying the mission specs.

[Bridge]
TROI: Worf. I was just talking with Mrs. Kyle the primary school teacher. She told me you enrolled Alexander in her class this morning.
WORF: Yes.
TROI: I'm sure he'll do very well. She's a wonderful teacher.
WORF: Good.
TROI: Did she tell you about the father-son field trip this afternoon?
WORF: Yes. We cannot attend.
TROI: Why not?
WORF: I have a personnel review scheduled at thirteen hundred hours.
TROI: This would be a good opportunity for you to meet some of the other students and parents.
WORF: I might be able to reschedule the review.
TROI: Good. I'll let them know you're coming.

[Biolab]
KYLE: As the value of their horns increased, the number of white rhinos in the wild kept falling, until they finally became extinct about two centuries ago. Now, I'd like to show you a pair of animals we're trying to save from extinction. Would you follow me? They're from Corvan Two, where their homes in the rainforests are being threatened by industrial pollutants. They're called Corvan gilvos. They're a little shy.
KYLE: The eating habits of gilvos are very similar to those of Earth's Draco lizards, which died out over three hundred years ago. There are only fourteen gilvos left on Corvan Two. We're transplanting these two to the protected planet Brentalia, where they should thrive. Well, why don't you all have a look around on your own for a while. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask.
KYLE: Alexander, I'm sorry. I forgot to tell everyone that the models on the tables were for everyone to play with. So I guess you didn't know you weren't supposed to take them. I saw you playing with the lizard model a little while ago. Do you still have it?
WORF: Are you accusing him of stealing?
KYLE: Lieutenant Worf, I can only tell you that
WORF: Alexander, did you take the model of the lizard from the table?
ALEXANDER: No, sir.
KYLE: Lieutenant, I saw Alexander put the model inside of his jacket. Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 45376.8. Alexander has acted shamefully, and as his father I must now deal with him. But I find that I would gladly fight ten armed Baldur warriors rather than face one small child.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: A Klingon's honor is more important to him than his life. A Klingon would gladly face the most horrible punishment rather than bring shame or disgrace to his family name. His word is his bond. Without it, he is nothing. Do you understand?
WORF: Why did you lie to me?
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
WORF: Did you fear the punishment you would receive?
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
WORF: You don't know why you lied, and yet you did. You don't know why you stole, and yet you did! Alexander, come here. When I was a child, younger than you, I lost my parents, my family, my people. Everything I had was taken from me except my sense of honor. It was the one thing I had which was truly Klingon and which no one could take away. Do you know who they are?
ALEXANDER: Kahless?
WORF: And his brother, Morath. They fought for twelve days and twelve nights because Morath had broken his word and brought shame to his family. When you lie or steal, you not only dishonor yourself, but your family. You dishonor me.
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry, Father. I won't do it ever again. I promise.
WORF: I accept your word. We will not speak of this matter again.

[Corridor]
TROI: Worf.
WORF: Counselor?
TROI: I just wanted to know how the field trip went yesterday.
WORF: You have not heard?
TROI: No. Why?

[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge. There was an incident. Alexander stole a small model and then told a falsehood. But I have remedied the situation.
TROI: May I ask how?
WORF: I pointed out his error, told him about Kahless and Morath, and explained the value of honor. The boy understood.
TROI: I see. Sometimes these things aren't over as quickly as they seem to be. I'd be happy to help if you have any further problems.
WORF: Thank you, that will not be necessary. Alexander will not repeat this mistake.

[Bridge]
DATA: The prototype has been towed into position, Captain.
RIKER: Initiate a radio link to the ship.
LAFORGE: Link established. Receiving prelaunch telemetry now.
WORF: Incoming message from Doctor Ja'Dar.
PICARD: On screen.
JA'DAR (screen): Captain, we're ready to begin the launch sequence.
PICARD: Mister Riker?
RIKER: All science labs standing by.
FELTON: Course laid in, sir.
PICARD: The Enterprise is ready, Doctor.
JA'DAR (screen): This is Doctor Ja'Dar to all stations. You may begin the launch sequence.
PICARD: And Doctor? Good luck.
JA'DAR (screen): Thank you, Captain.
DATA: Sensors indicate the field generators on the planet surface are charging, Captain.
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has been initiated. It's heading for the test ship.
DATA: The test ship has successfully entered warp, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, engage.
PICARD: Ensign, bring us to within twenty kilometers of the test ship.
FELTON: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Telemetry looks good. Soliton wave is steady.
DATA: The test ship is maintaining at warp two point three five, sir.
LAFORGE: That's a little faster than they anticipated, but still well within mission parameters.
FELTON: We're at twenty kilometers, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Data, is the wave affecting our warp drive?
DATA: No, sir. The effect has been localized to within two kilometers of the wavefront.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, what is the power efficiency of the wave?
LAFORGE: Energy transfer is ninety eight percent!
RIKER: Ninety eight?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. There's less than a two percent energy loss between the wave and the ship.
DATA: That is four hundred and fifty percent more efficient than our own warp drive.
PICARD: Astonishing. Commander Riker, have science lab three begin a series of gamma emission tests.
DATA: Sir, the wave's power signature is fluctuating.
LAFORGE: Wave efficiency has dropped to seventy three percent.
RIKER: The test ship's warp field is becoming unstable. Sensors show multiple disruptions.
FELTON: I'm reading a severe subspace distortion, sir.
DATA: It is expanding toward us, sir. It appears to be interfering with our engines, Captain.
LAFORGE: I can't compensate for it.
PICARD: Bring us out of warp, Ensign. All stop.
FELTON: Aye, sir. All stop.
RIKER: Damage report.
PICARD: Hold on!
RIKER: Damage report.
LAFORGE: Sensors and warp drive are offline. Deflectors down to fifteen percent.
WORF: Several injuries reported on deck twenty seven. No fatalities.
PICARD: What happened to the test ship?
DATA: Our last readings indicate the craft exploded due to extreme shearing stress.
WORF: Incoming message from Bilana Three, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
JA'DAR (screen): Captain, are you all right? Was anyone hurt?
PICARD: We sustained some minor damage. Do you know what happened?
JA'DAR (screen): The preliminary data we received indicate a transient power imbalance.
LAFORGE: That would be consistent with our telemetry readings from the ship. We detected a sudden drop in transfer efficiency just before the explosion.
JA'DAR (screen): Are you still tracking the wave?
LAFORGE: No, the explosion damaged our main sensor array, but I think we'll have it repaired in a couple of hours.
PICARD: We'll contact you as soon as the sensors are back online.
LAFORGE: Doctor. You did it. Warp without warp drive. For a while there it was really something to see.
JA'DAR (screen): Well, I hope you're here to see it next time we try, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: So do I, Doctor.

[Mrs. Kyle's office]
WORF: I apologize. I was detained.
KYLE: It's quite all right. Please sit down.
WORF: Thank you.
KYLE: Lieutenant, your son is a very bright, very spirited young man. From his test scores, I'm sure he'll turn out to be one of my best students. However, from his behavior in class so far, I do have some concerns.
WORF: What sort of concerns?
KYLE: Frankly, he's defiant, he's overly aggressive toward the other students, and he has a great deal of difficulty paying attention.
WORF: Perhaps you do not have experience dealing with Klingon children. They require a firm hand.
KYLE: And he seems to still have difficulty telling the truth. He takes toys from other the other students and then denies taking them. He acts like a bully and then says someone else started the fight. And he's bluntly told me you said Klingons do not listen to teachers.
WORF: I did not tell him that.
KYLE: No, of course not. He's acting on his internal feelings and then making up stories to explain them. It might be a good idea for the two of you to sit down with Counselor Troi and
WORF: Computer, where is Alexander Rozhenko?
COMPUTER: Alexander Rozhenko is on holodeck four.
KYLE: Lieutenant, I think we should
WORF: I will handle this.

[Corridor]
WORF: Computer, what program is being run?
COMPUTER: Calisthenics program of Lieutenant Worf. Difficulty level, Novice.

[Holodeck]
WORF: Computer, freeze program.
ALEXANDER: Did you see it, Father? I won.
WORF: Yes, I saw. Why are you here?
ALEXANDER: I'm training.
WORF: But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission to use the holodeck.
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted me to be a warrior.
WORF: I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your promise to me. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behavior. About your lies.
ALEXANDER: I have not lied!
WORF: Alexander, do not continue to
ALEXANDER: She's lying! She hates me, that's why she makes up stories about me!
WORF: I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters.
ALEXANDER: You said we could go see the gilvos again.
WORF: Not now. Not after you have broken your word.
ALEXANDER: You promised. You said that we could.
WORF: Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as your father. You have no understanding about what it means to be Klingon. I will arrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you will learn the lessons I have failed to teach you.
ALEXANDER: No! I won't go!
WORF: Would you further dishonor our family with your disobedience?
ALEXANDER: No, sir.
WORF: You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. What's your estimate on the engines, Geordi?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I need another hour, Commander. I still have to replace three power couplings.
RIKER: Understood.
DATA: Sir, sensors are coming back online.
RIKER: Good. Begin a sensor sweep for the soliton wave.
DATA: Aye, sir. The wave is continuing on course for the Lemma Two colony. It is bearing zero two zero, mark three two nine.
RIKER: Open a channel back here to Doctor Ja'Dar.
DATA: Sir, the wave has increased in velocity to warp four point one.
RIKER: Doctor, we've located the soliton wave. It's still on a course for Lemma Two. However its velocity has increased to warp four point one.
JA'DAR (screen): Have you checked the frequency resonance of the subspace
DATA: Sir, the energy level of the wave has increased by a factor of twelve. At this rate, it will have increased by a factor of two hundred by the time it reaches Lemma Two.
RIKER: Will they still be able to dissipate the wave?
JA'DAR (screen): Commander, at that energy level, the wave will not only destroy the colony, it'll take most of the planet with it.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Are you sure this is what you want?
WORF: It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is best for the boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school.
TROI: Have you discussed this with Alexander?
WORF: He is a child. I informed him of my decision.
TROI: I see.
WORF: You disapprove?
TROI: I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your son. My concern right now is how this decision is going to affect you. How will you feel when Alexander's gone?
WORF: I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires.
TROI: Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents?
WORF: That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a family. Things I could not provide for him.
TROI: I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous burden, particularly to a solitary parent.
WORF: He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required more attention than I could provide.
TROI: I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent away?
WORF: He was very young. I'm sure he was confused.
TROI: Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon after K'Ehleyr's death. In a way, he not only lost his mother, he lost his father as well.
WORF: Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling abandoned?
TROI: It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle emotional crises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on them. Tell me about the last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night she died.
WORF: We argued.
TROI: What about?
WORF: Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was born.
TROI: So you were angry with her?
WORF: Yes.
TROI: Are you still angry with her?
WORF: Of course not.
TROI: It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she died and left you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry doesn't mean you loved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your feelings, just as Alexander cannot hide from his. You both have a lot of healing to do. Perhaps you should think about doing it together.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Alexander.
ALEXANDER: I'm almost done.
WORF: Stop for a moment. Let us talk.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: I want you to understand why you are going away.
ALEXANDER: I understand. You're ashamed of me.
WORF: You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon school will be a better environment for you.
ALEXANDER: You don't care about me.
WORF: That is not true.
ALEXANDER: All you care about is your honor!
WORF: Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want us to fight like this.
ALEXANDER: My mother wouldn't send me away.
RIKER (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, please report to the Observation lounge.
WORF: Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Report.
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in
WORF: Excuse me.
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in power. Its energy level has risen by a factor of ninety six. At its current rate of acceleration, the wave should hit the planet in a couple of hours.
PICARD: How do we stop it?
LAFORGE: Well, there are two possibilities. We could attempt to use our own warp engines to generate an inverse-resonance wave. If we could match the exact frequency and amplitude of the soliton, we should be able to neutralize it.
RIKER: You don't sound very confident.
DATA: Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency and amplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match.
PICARD: Let's hear the second option.
LAFORGE: It's a little more dangerous, but I think there's a better chance for success. We could create a backfire, an explosive force set off just in front of the soliton wave. A large enough explosion, say five photon torpedoes, should be enough to disrupt the wave and allow it to dissipate.
PICARD: How fast is the wave traveling now?
DATA: Warp six point three seven.
LAFORGE: The good news is we can catch it. The bad news is that in order to set up this backfire we have to be in front of it.
DATA: Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave.
RIKER: Why can't we go around it?
DATA: The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is insufficient time remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches Lemma Two.
PICARD: How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt to penetrate the wave?
WORF: The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down to thirty three percent.
RIKER: It's going to be quite a ride.
PICARD: It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, after we've passed through the wave, I want you to take us at a relative position twenty three kilometers in front of it.
FELTON: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Alert sickbay to prepare for possible casualties.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: The wave has increased speed to warp seven point two, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign, take us to warp seven point two one.
FELTON: We are approaching the wave, Captain. Distance two hundred kilometers.
RIKER: Let's see it.
PICARD: Stand by to increase speed to warp seven point three. On my mark.
RIKER: Red Alert. Load torpedo bays. Set warhead yields to level sixteen.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: All deck, this is the Bridge. Brace for impact.
WORF: Torpedoes loaded.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
DATA: We have passed through the wave, Captain.
FELTON: We have dropped to warp seven point two. The wave is directly astern at a distance of twenty three kilometers.
WORF: Deflector strength is down to twelve percent. There are fluctuations in several warp transfer conduits. Tractor beams and transporters offline.
RIKER: We have some gaps in the aft shields, Captain. When the torpedoes explode, these areas will be contaminated with ion radiation. We need to evacuate sections twenty four to forty seven, decks thirty five through thirty eight.
PICARD: Make it so.
WORF: Sir, there is a fire in biolab four, The fire suppression apparatus is not functioning.
PICARD: Seal off the compartment. Prepare to vent the air from
DATA: Sir, there are life forms present in that biolab.
RIKER: We're transporting endangered animals from Corvan Two.
DATA: Readings also indicate the presence of a humanoid, Captain.
PICARD: Computer, identify humanoid life form in biolab four.
COMPUTER: Life form is identified as Alexander Rozhenko.
PICARD: Bridge to biolab four. Alexander, can you hear us?
WORF: Sensors show he is alive. He may be injured.
RIKER: Can we transport him out of there?
WORF: Transporters are still offline.
FELTON: Captain, warp power is dropping. We're losing speed.
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. Geordi, what is going on?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We lost four warp transfer conduits, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): The wave is gaining on us.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We need more speed.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I doubt that I can keep this speed up

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Much longer, Commander. You'd better fire those torpedoes while we're still in front of the wave.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, how long before the wave overtakes us?
DATA: At our current speed, four minutes thirty seconds, sir.
WORF: Captain, permission to leave the bridge.
PICARD: Granted. Commander, will you accompany Mister Worf to biolab four.
DATA: Captain, biolab four is one of the areas that will be flooded with ion radiation.
PICARD: Commander. I can't let the soliton wave hit the colony. You have three minutes, not one second more.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Primary control's shorted out.
WORF: Stand clear.

[Biolab]
WORF: Alexander!
RIKER: Alexander, can you hear me? Alexander?

[Bridge]
DATA: The soliton wave has closed to ten kilometers, Captain.
PICARD: Stand by to fire torpedoes on my command.

[Biolab]
RIKER: Alexander!
WORF: Commander, I've found him!
RIKER: Worf! Where are you Worf?
WORF: Over here. Help me.
RIKER: It's too heavy. I've got to find something to help us.
ALEXANDER: Father?
WORF: Lie still, I am here.
ALEXANDER: My leg hurts. I'm scared.
ALEXANDER: The gilvos!
RIKER: There's no time.
ALEXANDER: Please, they'll die!

[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has closed to one kilometer, Captain.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. Bridge to Lieutenant Worf, acknowledge.
DATA: The wave is about to overtake us, sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, acknowledge! Fire torpedoes.

[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has been disrupted, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here, Captain. We made it

[Corridor]
RIKER: Sir. The boy's going to be all right.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're a very lucky little boy. Just some minor smoke inhalation and a hairline fracture of the tibia. That's a bone in your leg. I'd like to keep him overnight, but he should be fine by tomorrow.
WORF: Thank you, Doctor.
ALEXANDER: Are you going to get in trouble because of me?
WORF: Do not concern yourself with that.
ALEXANDER: Am I in trouble?
WORF: Yes, but we will discuss that at a later time.
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry. I promise I'll be good at the Klingon school. I'll make you proud of me.
WORF: Klingon schools are designed to be difficult. The physical and mental hardships faced by the students are meant to build character and strength. However, if you wish to face a greater challenge, you may stay here with me. It will not be easy, for either one of us, but perhaps we can face the challenge together.
ALEXANDER: I accept your challenge, Father. I will stay.
WORF: I believe your mother would be pleased.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45397.3. Two days ago, Starbase five one four lost contact with the research vessel Vico, which was sent to explore the interior of a Black Cluster. We are en route to investigate.

[Bridge]
FELTON: Captain, we are entering sector nine seven.
DATA: I am picking up massive gravitational fluctuations, sir.
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign.
FELTON: Yes, sir.
WORF: The Black Cluster is within visual range, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Aye, Captain.
RIKER: Let's find that ship. Full sensor sweep, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What a sight.
PICARD: One of the most ancient formations in the galaxy.
DATA: I have located the Vico, sir. The vessel appears to be adrift.
RIKER: Let's see it. Life signs?
WORF: Nothing, Commander.
RIKER: Damage report, Mister Data.
DATA: Outer and inner hulls have been breached. Decks seven through twelve are exposed to space.
RIKER: Set up a translink to their computer core. Let's see what happened.
DATA: I cannot, sir. The emergency bulkheads on that deck are in place. Our linkup signal cannot penetrate them.
PICARD: Structural status, Commander?
DATA: Stress readings indicate considerable pressure on the transverse supports.
PICARD: Is it stable enough for an away team?
DATA: Yes, sir, but the risk of structural collapse is quite high.
PICARD: Have transporter room one maintain a lock on each member of your away team. I want you out of there at the first sign of trouble.
RIKER: Take us to fifteen thousand meters, Ensign.
FELTON: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Data, you're with me.

[Vico]
DATA: This station is inoperable, sir.
LAFORGE: This one seems to be stuck in a feedback loop.
RIKER: Let's see if we can tap directly into the computer core.
LAFORGE: The ODN junction is right down here.
LAFORGE: Data?
DATA: Core transfer is engaged.
LAFORGE: Exchange protocol verified. The files are intact. At least some of them, anyway.
RIKER: Stay here, Geordi. Data.
TIMOTHY: Are my parents alright?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. A young boy, shielded from our initial sensor scans, has been discovered pinned beneath a fallen beam. The degree of damage to the Vico is making our rescue attempt difficult.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room one, can you lock on

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): To him and transport directly to Sickbay?
HUTCHINSON: I'll try, Captain, but there's a lot of shielding to pull him through.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Acknowledged. Picard to Crusher.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Sickbay here, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Prepare for emergency transport.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher out.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker.

[Vico]
PICARD (voiceover): Is the boy ready, Number One?
RIKER: Ready, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): It's your signal.
RIKER: Aye, Captain. It's going to be okay. Here we go. Energize.

[Transporter room]
PICARD (voiceover): Ensign, do we have him?
HUTCHINSON: The lock is holding. I just can't resolve the matter stream, not with all that victurium alloy in the way.

[Vico]
HUTCHINSON (voiceover): Commander Riker. You'll have to get him out into the corridor.
DATA: I could move the beam, sir. However, it may initiate the collapse of the surrounding supports. I recommend you and Geordi return to the ship.
RIKER: Agreed. La Forge.

[Transporter room]
HUTCHINSON: I'm locked onto Commander Data and the boy, sir. I'll energize as soon as they've cleared the bulkheads.
RIKER: Whenever you're ready, Data.
DATA (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Vico]
TIMOTHY: Are you're going to lift that?
DATA: Yes. Then I will take you to the corridor. We will transport back to the Enterprise from there. Do you understand?
TIMOTHY: How come you can pick up something so heavy?
DATA: I am an android. My strength is many times that of a human. It is going to be okay. I will count to three. One two three.
DATA: Energize.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. A thorough search of the Vico has revealed no additional survivors. We have begun the process of counseling the boy with regard to the tragedy.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Don't be afraid.
TIMOTHY: We were in the Black Cluster. I don't know where they came from. They had a big ship and they kept shooting at us. Then they beamed over. They had purple helmets on and phaser rifles. I saw them. They didn't see me.
CRUSHER: You're safe now, Timothy. I'm sorry for what happened. It's going to be all right. I bet you're hungry. Would you like me to get you something to eat?
DATA: Counselor, I must join Commander La Forge in Engineering. If you will excuse me.
TROI: Timothy, would you like Data to stay with you a little bit longer?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Sections of the primary and secondary hull were torn right off. The shearing planes are here, here, and here.
PICARD: How much longer till we can access their logs?
LAFORGE: Almost an hour.
PICARD: The boy was here.
LAFORGE: The hallway outside the computer core. His mother was the ship's systems engineer. The second away team found her body here inside the core.
PICARD: And his father?
LAFORGE: Ship's second officer. He was most likely on the bridge when it was exposed to space.
PICARD: Most likely.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He'll sleep for a few hours at least. I don't need to keep him here but I will need to see him again tomorrow. You've got some work cut out for you.
TROI: His world is gone, Data. We're going to have to help him build a new one.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This is not good. Whatever hit the Vico must have set up an EM pulse that flashed through their computer banks.
DATA: Nearly eighty three percent of their records have been lost.
LAFORGE: And all of their sensor logs. Let's use what we got from our own sensors. I'll call up the structural analysis and the surface scans.
DATA: Geordi, as a child, did you ever experience a traumatic event?
LAFORGE: You're wondering about Timothy?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I was caught in a fire once. I must have been, I don't know, about five, I guess. It was before I got the first visor. And it was only a couple of minutes before my parents found me and pulled me out. And nobody got hurt, but I tell you that was the longest couple of minutes of my life. It was a while after that before I could even let my parents get out of earshot. It was like I absolutely needed to know that they were there, you know?
DATA: Timothy no longer has that kind of support.
LAFORGE: Yeah.

[Classroom]
TEACHER: Dara and her brother found themselves in the land of Tagas where the ruler, Elamos the Magnificent, had proclaimed as law. 'No children will be tolerated within the Great Kingdom'. When Dara saw the proclamation, she just laughed, and said, 'How magnificent a ruler, to be frightened by the likes of us.' Timothy, we're done with sculpture for now.
TIMOTHY: It's not finished.
TEACHER: We'll come back to it next period. Why don't you pick up your mythology book and follow along?
TIMOTHY: But it's not finished.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Magnetic residual analysis confirms that the Vico was attacked inside the Black Cluster. The graviton wave fronts pushed the ship to where we found it.
PICARD: No signs of phaser burns on the hull.
LAFORGE: No, sir. Torsional stress levels point to a disrupter-style weapon.
DATA: Fracture points indicate that the energy burst came from a range of less than three thousand meters.
PICARD: But that's a strategy consistent with a cloaked vessel. Romulan. Or Klingon. But we're quite a distance from either of their territories.
DATA: The Breen have outposts in this sector. The attack on the Vico is consistent with their battle tactics and their level of technology.
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But what would the Breen be doing inside the Black Cluster? The boy described a boarding party with helmets and phaser rifles.
LAFORGE: Boarding party? I don't think that's likely, sir.
PICARD: Counselor.
LAFORGE: There was absolutely no evidence of anybody coming on board the Vico. We would have found a transporter field trace. Or if somebody had used the entry ports, we would have found an electrostatic differential in the docking latches, and we didn't. Could Timothy have imagined that, Counselor?
PICARD: Or could he be lying?
TROI: If he's lying, I haven't been able to sense it. Perhaps his emotional trauma level is too high.
PICARD: Why wouldn't he tell us the truth?
TROI: He's still in shock. it's hard to know what's going on in his mind right now.
LAFORGE: Well, I'll go back and check the sensor readings again but I don't think we're going to find anything.
PICARD: Thank you, Geordi.
TROI: Data. Captain, I think we should ask Data to spend some time with him.
DATA: I do not understand.
TROI: I'm very worried about his behavior and what I've just heard doesn't make me feel any better. Data, you're the only one he's reached out to, because you rescued him. We can use your relationship with him to help his recovery.
PICARD: Would Timothy also be more inclined to tell Data the truth about what happened?
TROI: It's a possibility.
PICARD: Commander, proceed with Timothy as the Counselor suggests.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: Counselor, exactly how shall I proceed?
TROI: Just be with him. You're a presence he trusts, and that's what he needs most right now.

[Timothy's quarters]
TIMOTHY: What?
TIMOTHY: Data.
DATA: Hello, Timothy. May I enter?
TIMOTHY: Yeah.
DATA: Ah. You are attempting to recreate the Dokkaran temple of Kural Hanesh?
TIMOTHY: Isn't it great?! See, there's the big hallway the teacher told us about. That's where everybody came in. That's where they stood. And that's where the altar was. What do you think?
DATA: Do you wish a frank evaluation? It lacks the harmony that characterized this particular temple and Dokkaran culture in general.
TIMOTHY: You hate it.
DATA: No, I am not capable of hatred.
TIMOTHY: I can't do anything right.
DATA: You are making an unwarranted extrapolation. I was merely offering an esthetic analysis of this particular model. The base appears quite sturdy.
TIMOTHY: I told you.
DATA: May I suggest a different approach? You were attempting to construct the upper level before the supports were in place. Observe.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Data.
DATA: Data here.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I need your help with the shield modulators.
DATA: I will join you in a moment, Geordi. Data out. Lieutenant La Forge requires my assistance.
TIMOTHY: Incredible. Data, how come you can do that?
DATA: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and physically.
TIMOTHY: Androids are better than humans?
DATA: Better is a highly subjective term. I do not, for example, possess the ability to experience emotion as humans do.
TIMOTHY: No emotions? You mean you can't be happy or sad?
DATA: That is correct.
TIMOTHY: Why not?
DATA: My positronic brain is not capable of generating those conditions. Goodbye.

[Corridor]
TIMOTHY: Data! Can we build something else later?
DATA: That would be acceptable.
TIMOTHY: Bye.

[Timothy's quarters]
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity. tilts head) That is correct.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The Black Cluster was formed almost nine billion years ago when hundreds of protostars collapsed in close proximity. The resulting gravitational forces are both violent and highly unpredictable.
LAFORGE: To get anywhere near the center, we're going to have to push through the gravitational wavefronts like the science vessel was designed to do. I've already adjusted our shields accordingly.
WORF: The gravitational forces will affect sensor accuracy. Detecting an enemy vessel will be difficult.
RIKER: Maybe that's what happened to the Vico. They didn't see anything coming until it was too late.
PICARD: Counselor, has the boy volunteered any further information?
TROI: No, but I do have an appointment with him in less than half an hour.
PICARD: If there's a possibility of getting more from him, I'd like you to pursue it. But we need to continue our investigation. We'll enter the Black Cluster at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed.

[Corridor]
TROI: Hello, Timothy. Are you ready to go?
TIMOTHY: Yes, Counselor. I am ready.
TROI: How are you feeling?
TIMOTHY: I am functioning within established parameters.
TROI: Established parameters? You sound like Data.
TIMOTHY: I am an android.
TROI: I see. Well, let's go for our walk, shall we?
TIMOTHY: That would be acceptable.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: So, what would you like?
TIMOTHY: Androids do not need to eat or drink. However, sometimes we like to taste things. A Tamarin frost, please. Would you like anything, Counselor?
TROI: No, I'm fine, thank you.
TIMOTHY: As you wish.
TROI: So you're no longer a human?
TIMOTHY: I'm an android.
TROI: When did this happen?
TIMOTHY: I've always been an android.
TROI: What's it like being an android?
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and physically. But I do not experience emotions.
TROI: You don't? No emotion at all?
TIMOTHY: That is correct.

[Ready room]
PICARD: An android?
TROI: I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically, it's called enantiodromia. Conversion into the opposite. Timothy went from human to machine, from being emotional to being emotionless. But the underlying trauma is still there. He's just found a new way to suppress it.
PICARD: Counselor, how long will this behavior last?
TROI: As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as best he can. The android persona is just one step along the way. As soon as he feels stronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away naturally.
PICARD: I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happened to his ship.
TROI: Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy take us where he wants to go. We should support the process and even encourage it.
PICARD: Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he can possibly be.

[Timothy's quarters]
DATA: Timothy, your head movements are counterproductive. Can you be still?
TIMOTHY: But you do it.
DATA: The servo mechanisms in my neck are designed to approximate human movements. I did not realize the effect was so distracting.
TIMOTHY: I like it. Data, are there any other androids in Starfleet?
DATA: No. I am the only one.
TIMOTHY: How come you're not Captain?
DATA: My service experience does not yet warrant such a position.
TIMOTHY: Data, what's the scariest thing that ever happened to you?
DATA: Fear is a quality that I do not possess.
TIMOTHY: Because it's an emotion?
DATA: Correct.
TIMOTHY: But what if you had a nightmare?
DATA: I have never had a nightmare. I do not require sleep. Timothy, are you having disturbing dreams?
TIMOTHY: I do not require sleep.
DATA: Is that satisfactory?
TIMOTHY: It's perfect.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Transfer circuits are functioning properly.
TIMOTHY: Within established parameters?
CRUSHER: Absolutely. Input processing, pattern recognition, all within established parameters.
TIMOTHY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Data's quarters]
TIMOTHY: I ran out of red ochre.
DATA: You may use mine.
TIMOTHY: Thank you.
DATA: Perhaps you should return to your quarters.
TIMOTHY: I'm fine. The servo mechanisms in my mouth are designed to approximate human movements.
TIMOTHY: That is not bad.
DATA: Thank you. It is very expressive.
TIMOTHY: Thank you.
DATA: Is your painting representative of something?
TIMOTHY: It's just a painting.
DATA: Timothy, you understand that you may speak with me about anything you wish? Any subject?
TIMOTHY: I understand.
DATA: At times, I too find it difficult to share my thoughts with others. I am not always confident that I am expressing myself in a manner which humans can comprehend. But do I know that

[Bridge]
WORF: We are approaching the perimeter. I'm picking up the gravitational wavefronts.
RIKER: Engage forward shields thirty five percent.
WORF: Shields up.
PICARD: Drop to one quarter impulse, Ensign.
FELTON: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Adjusting shield frequencies now, Commander. We'll have this smoothed out in just a second.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Ensign, adjust course for any deviations.
FELTON: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Resume one third impulse.
WORF: Captain, I am reading something at four hundred thousand kilometers off the starboard bow. Possibly a ship.
RIKER: Red alert.
PICARD: Take us to visual range, Ensign.
FELTON: Adjusting course.
WORF: Sensor readings have disappeared. Wait, I am picking up another reading at four hundred thousand kilometers off the port bow. It's gone. No, it is back to starboard.
RIKER: Captain, the Black Cluster is distorting the sensors. We're picking up echoes of the Enterprise reflecting off the wavefronts.
PICARD: Cancel Red alert. Mister Worf, adjust the sensors to compensate for the distortion.
WORF: Aye.
PICARD: Sensor difficulties have been reported by ships traveling through black clusters, but never this extreme.
WORF: Captain, that formation is seven times more massive than any explored previously. That could explain the difference.
PICARD: Resume previous course, Ensign.
FELTON: Yes, sir.

[Classroom observation area]
DATA: He laughed.
TROI: Yes. It's nice to see, isn't it?
DATA: It is certainly not consistent with his android persona.
TROI: I'd say he's beginning the process of letting go of that fantasy.
DATA: Then my work with him is done.
TROI: No, I don't think it is, Data. A laugh is one step in the right direction. We need to help him take a few more steps.
DATA: How, Counselor?
TROI: I'd like you to talk to him about your own fascination with humanity. If you can explain to Timothy the appeal that humanity has for you, he might find it easier to become a boy again.

[Ten Forward]
TIMOTHY: This is great. How is yours?
DATA: The complex polysaccharides, in reaction with the carbon dioxide, produces an unusual combination of texture and effervescence.
TIMOTHY: But how does it taste? Is it good?
DATA: I am not capable of tasting in the manner you suggest. However, I can analyze the composition of a dessert and make comparative conclusions about its possible effect on the human palate. But I neither like it nor dislike it.
TIMOTHY: Oh. I didn't realize that.
DATA: I have often wondered what it must be like to have one's mouth water in anticipation of the arrival of a confection, or to feel the pleasure I have observed in humans as they consume it.
TIMOTHY: You sound like you don't want to be an android.
DATA: I am an android. That will never change.
TIMOTHY: But if you could change, would you?
DATA: I have often wished to be human. I study people carefully in order to more closely approximate human behavior.
TIMOTHY: Why? We're stronger and smarter than humans. We can do more than they can.
DATA: But I cannot take pride in my abilities. I cannot take pleasure in my accomplishments.
TIMOTHY: But we never have to feel bad, either.
DATA: I would gladly risk feeling bad at times if it also meant that I could also taste my dessert.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, gravitational wavefront intensity is increasing steadily. Eleven hundred standard G units and rising.
PICARD: Let's see if anyone's out there. Mister Worf, attempt a wide range sensor sweep.
WORF: Aye, sir. Gravitational distortion is too great, Captain. The scanning signal is again being reflected off the wavefronts. I am unable to compensate. The sensors are useless.
PICARD: Mister Data to the Bridge, please.
DATA (voiceover): Acknowledged.
PICARD: Adjust sensors to short range. Attempt a limited positron scan.
WORF: The distortion is still in effect.
RIKER: Better jacket the scanning beam.
WORF: The secondary beam is being distorted as well.
PICARD: Mister Data, our sensors have been rendered ineffective by the field distortion. I want your analysis. Mister Worf, fire phasers, maximum intensity, limited spectrum. Zero zero one mark zero four five.
RIKER: An experiment, Captain?
PICARD: Exactly, Number One.
WORF: Firing phasers.
PICARD: Explanation, Mister Data.
DATA: Phaser energy was reflected by the gravitational wavefronts. It is similar to the phenomenon distorting our sensor signals.
PICARD: Phasers and sensors both useless? Mister Data, this reflection phenomenon, would it have the same effect on a disruptor-style weapon?
DATA: Yes, sir. Disruptors would be ineffectual.
PICARD: And a ship's cloaking field?
DATA: It would be extremely difficult to maintain.
PICARD: Mister Data, is it at all likely that the Vico could have been attacked inside the cluster?
DATA: Given the effects we have observed, the probability is exceedingly remote, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Counselor Troi.
TROI (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Counselor, will you bring Timothy to my Ready room?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Timothy, can you tell us what happened to your ship?
TIMOTHY: I did tell you.
TROI: Tell us again.
TIMOTHY: We were attacked.
DATA: That is highly unlikely. Our investigations have clearly demonstrated
TIMOTHY: We were attacked! We were attacked!
DATA: Timothy, androids do not lie.
TIMOTHY: It was me.
DATA: Please explain.
TIMOTHY: It was me. I did it. I killed them all. Everything was shaking. I lost my balance. I was just trying to hold on to something. I didn't mean to do it.
PICARD: What was it that didn't you mean to do, Timothy?
TIMOTHY: My arm hit the computer panel. That's what destroyed the ship.
TROI: The ship was damaged when your arm hit the computer panel? Timothy, listen to me. The damage to your ship might have occurred at the same time your arm touched the panel, but it was only a coincidence. This wasn't your fault.
TIMOTHY: Yes it was.
DATA: It is not possible. The onboard control systems for every starship require a user code clearance. You could not have inadvertently affected any of the Vico's systems.
PICARD: Your computer had safety precautions. There is nothing you could have touched that would have damaged your ship.
TROI: You're not responsible for what happened to your parents, Timothy.
TIMOTHY: But if it wasn't me
PICARD: We're trying to determine what happened right now, and if there is anything you can remember that may assist
TIMOTHY: That's just how it was when it started on the Vico.

[Bridge]
WORF: Wavefront intensity has increased.
RIKER: Increase shields to seventy five percent.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Damage, Mister Worf.
WORF: Minimal, sir. Shields are holding.
PICARD: Ensign, full about. Go to warp two.
FELTON: The gravitational distortion is too high. We can't maintain a warp field.
PICARD: Full shields.
WORF: Aye.
FELTON: Captain, impulse power has been disrupted. The helm won't respond.
TIMOTHY: We couldn't get out either.
TROI: Timothy, perhaps you and I should go below and get out of everyone's way.
TIMOTHY: No.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Can you give me more power to the shields?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Stand by.
TIMOTHY: That's what they kept saying. More shields, more shields.
DATA: Timothy, accompany me, please. I want you to recall everything you heard people say aboard the Vico before it was destroyed.
TIMOTHY: I don't know. Just that. Just more shields.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, I've transferred

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Fusion reactors four through nine into the shield array. That should double the shield strength.

[Bridge]
WORF: Wavefront intensity has increased by an order of magnitude. Impact in three, two, one.
WORF: Wave front intensity is continuing to increase. Structural over-pressure now exceeding one hundred eighty percent.
PICARD: La Forge?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I don't understand. That should have been enough.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We could run the shield grid directly off the warp drive.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
WORF: Initiating warp-transfer pathways now.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Diverting warp power to the shields.
TIMOTHY: Warp power to the shields. They said that too, Data. I'm positive.
WORF: Wavefront intensity has increased by a factor of ten. Contact in thirty one seconds. Without additional power to the shields, the outer hull will not hold.
RIKER: La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Warp transfer to the shields complete.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): That's as strong as they're going to get.
WORF: Impact in fifteen seconds.
DATA: Sir, drop the shields.
RIKER: That's suicide, Data.
DATA: Captain, drop the shields.
PICARD: Make it so.
WORF: Aye.
DATA: Our own shields caused the increases in the wavefronts, sir. We have been experiencing a harmonic amplification effect.
RIKER: The more energy we dumped into the shield grid, the worse the impact.
DATA: Precisely. That is also what destroyed the Vico. When Timothy remembered similar procedures on his ship, I initiated an analysis of shield output to wavefront amplitude and discovered a correlation.
PICARD: If we had transferred all that warp power to the shields, it would have torn the ship apart.
RIKER: Status, Ensign?
FELTON: Navigation is coming back online.
PICARD: Full about, one quarter impulse. Take us out of here.

[Classroom observation area]
TROI: Timothy's a boy feeling a great deal of pain. But he is a boy again. Is this difficult for you, Data?
DATA: Difficult?
TROI: To watch him moving away from being like you.
DATA: That would require an emotional context which I cannot provide.

[Classroom]
TEACHER: Okay, everybody, let's go. Come on.
DATA: Hello, Timothy.
TIMOTHY: Hi, Data. How are you?
DATA: I am operating within established parameters. How are you?
TIMOTHY: I miss my parents. But I'm okay. I guess you thought I was pretty silly when I had my hair like yours and everything.
DATA: I have been told that imitation is the highest form of flattery.
TIMOTHY: Can we still do things together, even if I'm not really an android?
DATA: I have many human friends. I would be pleased to count you among them.
TIMOTHY: That would be acceptable.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45429.3. While on a mapping survey, we are conveying a delegation of Ullians to Kaldra Four. These telepathic historians conduct their research by retrieving long-forgotten memories.

[Ten Forward]
KEIKO: It's a chipped cup, off-white, with a crack in it. I can see it but I don't remember anything else about it.
TARMIN: When you see it, do you hear any sounds?
KEIKO: No, I don't think so. Wait, yes. Humming. Someone's humming.
TARMIN: A woman?
KEIKO: Yes, but I don't know who it is.
TARMIN: Try to touch the cup.
KEIKO: It has a sharp edge where it's chipped.
TARMIN: Is there anything inside the cup?
KEIKO: A liquid, dark.
TARMIN: Like tea?
KEIKO: It's not hot. It's bitter.
TARMIN: There's something else inside the cup.
KEIKO: Yes, a wooden handle.
TARMIN: A spoon?
KEIKO: No, it's more delicate than that.
TARMIN: Reach out for it.
KEIKO: A brush. An ink brush. I hear that humming again.
TARMIN: Keep listening to it, and hold out the brush. See if anyone takes it from you.
KEIKO: It's Obaachan! My grandmother. She's doing ink brush writing. I can remember it now. She used that cup for cleaning the brushes, and it was my job to fill it with water and bring it to the table. I would sit beside her and watch the most beautiful characters come from that brush. And the whole time, she'd be humming to herself. I remember it like it was yesterday.
CRUSHER: That is remarkable. You remembered such vivid detail.
KEIKO: For years I've seen that old cup in my memory but I could never remember what it was or why it was important. Thank you.
TARMIN: You're entirely welcome, young lady. Perhaps someone else would care to try? You, madam. You're thinking of that first childhood kiss. Would you like to remember more about it?
JEV: Father, you know you're not supposed to probe someone's memory unless they've given you permission.
TARMIN: You are right, but sometimes with a beautiful woman, I can not help myself.
LAFORGE: How about you, Commander? Got any memories you feel like digging up?
RIKER: None that I'd care to share with an audience.
KEIKO: It's getting late. I'd better be going.

[Corridor]
DATA: It is perplexing to me that the Ullians' ability to retrieve memory is so highly prized. If an event were important enough to be recovered, why would it have been forgotten?
LAFORGE: It's not quite the same for us as it is for you, Data. You record every second of every moment of your life.
DATA: That is correct.
LAFORGE: And then if you want to recall any one of those moments, you just access the proper memory circuit.
DATA: My understanding of the human brain suggests that the process is the same for you. Each memory is encoded in chains of molecules. If you want to retrieve it, you simply access the proper RNA sequence.
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's true.
DATA: Then in what way is it different?
LAFORGE: Sometimes there are memories we just can't access at the spur of the moment. For instance, I have no recollection of how I spent my last birthday. Birthdays are important occasions, and you would think that I'd remember how I spent the day, but right now I can't even remember where I was.

[Turbolift]
LAFORGE: Deck two. On the other hand, I remember everything about the time I got my first pet. A Circassian cat. I was eight. I remember how funny-looking he was. I remember how excited I was. It's as if it happened last week.
DATA: Perhaps you remember the pleasant memories and forget the unpleasant ones?
LAFORGE: No, sometimes the bad memories can be the most intense of all.
DATA: It would seem there is no predictable pattern to human memory.
LAFORGE: It would seem.

[Dining room]
JEV: This library of ours has been in the planning stages for years. A collection of the retrieved memories of races from many different star systems.
TARMIN: What my son means to say is, we think of ourselves as archeologists of the mind. We believe that the history of a world is contained in the personal experience of its people.
PICARD: Rather like the ancient oral historians on Earth.
TARMIN: Exactly. The library we propose will be a vast storehouse of these individual memories.
RIKER: That sounds like quite a project. How long will it take to finish your studies on Kaldra?
INAD: Many months. We've been working for years, and we've surveyed only eleven planets in eight star systems.
JEV: But it's our way of life. We wouldn't want to do anything else.
CRUSHER: Captain, Mister Tarmin gave us a demonstration of his abilities this afternoon. It's fascinating. Perhaps you would like to resurrect some memories.
TARMIN: I'd be happy to probe your recollections, Captain. Most people find it an enjoyable experience.
PICARD: I'm sure. However, I don't think I would make a particularly good subject.
CRUSHER: I'm sure you'd be ideal, and you must have some intriguing memories.
TARMIN: We won't be on your ship for long. This may be your last chance.
PICARD: Yes. Well.
INAD: Tarmin, we mustn't influence people. We must let them come to us willingly.
TARMIN: I have found over the years there are many who want the experience of memory retrieval, but who lack some encouragement in order to come forward.
TARMIN: You, Mister Worf? I would love to explore Klingon memories.
WORF: Klingons do not allow themselves to be probed.
TARMIN: But there is nothing to fear.
JEV: Father.
WORF: I am not fearful.
TARMIN: Commander La Forge, you?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Thanks anyway.
TARMIN: I have rarely encountered such squeamish people. Doctor Crusher? Commander Riker?
TROI: Mister Tarmin, are all Ullians able to read memories?
TARMIN: Oh, no, my dear. The technique requires special training. It is a serious commitment.
INAD: It takes years of study. Tarmin is the most proficient of our group.
TARMIN: Once Jev spent two days with a contingent of elderly Gentons. He couldn't get anything from them. I spent only one hour with them and retrieved a fragment from the Gentonian trade wars.
JEV: Excuse me.
INAD: Exactly how long will it be before we reach Kaldra, Captain?
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Four days, eleven hours.

[Corridor]
TROI: Jev?
JEV: I'm sorry. I'm being rude.
TROI: No, not at all.
JEV: My father finds it amusing to demean me in public. I reach the point where I don't want to hear any more.
TROI: It's not easy having an overbearing parent. Believe me, I know how you feel.
JEV: Oh, that's right. You're an empath.
TROI: Oh, I can't read Ullians, but I do know a certain Betazoid mother who is a great deal like your father.

[Turbolift]
TROI: Deck eight.
JEV: Deck sixteen.
TROI: I've learned to remind myself that my mother and I are two separate individuals.
JEV: And have you enjoyed much success with this approach, Counselor?
TROI: No. But I do keep reminding myself.
TROI: Goodnight.
JEV: Goodnight, Counselor. And thank you.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER (voiceover): Have you stopped thinking about us?
TROI: Hot chocolate.
TROI: Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship.
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that. I can't stop thinking about you.
TROI: Will, don't.
TROI (voiceover): Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship.
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us?
TROI: We mustn't do this. Will, don't. Will, no!
JEV: Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that.
TROI: No! No! No! Don't!
JEV: I can't stop thinking about you. Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking about us?
TROI: No!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45430.9. Counselor Troi has fallen into a deep coma. After a thorough examination, Doctor Crusher has been unable to find signs of illness or infection.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Any change, Doctor Martin?
MARTIN: No. I'm still getting unusual neurotransmitter readings in the diencephalon, but they might be a result of the coma.
PICARD: Can you bring her out of it?
CRUSHER: I've tried standard revival techniques. She doesn't respond. Until I find out what's caused this, I don't want to try anything more extreme.
RIKER: Do we know what she was doing when this happened?
CRUSHER: No. She was found in her quarters this morning when she didn't show up for an appointment. She was dressed for bed but the bed hadn't been slept in.
PICARD: Who was the last person to speak with her?
RIKER: She left the dinner last night with one of the Ullians. I'll talk to him.
PICARD: Ask if they would consent to an examination, just to be certain.
CRUSHER: I'll check the biofilter readings from the Ullian transporter log. It's possible they could still be carrying a harmful organism.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: May I join you?
JEV: Commander. Of course. Something's wrong?
RIKER: Counselor Troi's ill.
JEV: I'm sorry to hear it
RIKER: She's more than ill, she's in a coma. Doctor Crusher doesn't know what's causing it or how to treat her.
JEV: When did this happen?
RIKER: Apparently some time last night. That's why I wanted to talk to you. You may have been the last person to see her. Did you go with her into her quarters?
JEV: Are you suggesting that I behaved improperly, Commander?
RIKER: Not at all. I'm just trying to trace her steps.
JEV: We talked in a turbolift, briefly. She got out at deck eight. I did not go with her.
RIKER: Jev, I'm not accusing you of anything. Did she mention feeling ill?
JEV: She seemed fine. She has a wonderful sense of humor.
RIKER: If you have no objections, Doctor Crusher would like to examine you and your group.
JEV: To what end?
RIKER: She's just trying to eliminate the possibility that one of you might be carrying an organism that was harmful to Deanna. I'm not implying that you did anything intentional. I'm just trying to get to the bottom of the mystery.
JEV: We have nothing to hide. If you wish to spend time examining us.
RIKER: Fine. Thank you.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Deanna, I don't know if you can hear me. I've heard doctors say that even when someone's in a coma, they may be able to hear when people talk to them. That it might help stimulate the brain, speed the healing. In fact, I think you did that for me once, when I was in pretty bad shape. I just thought it might help to hear a friendly voice, even if you don't know you're hearing it. We've been busy mapping the sector. It's been pretty routine. The most unusual thing we've seen is a binary star system. Let's see, what else? I finished the personnel review that we were working on. You can check it out when you wake up. I miss you. Please don't stay away too long.
CRUSHER: Will? Will, I promise I'll let you know the minute that she regains consciousness.
RIKER: I know.
CRUSHER: There's nothing you can do here. You'll wear yourself out.
RIKER: Right.
CRUSHER: It's late. Go to bed. That's an order.

[Engineering]
DAVIS: Keller is still in there!
RIKER: Let's move it! Out, out, out! Let's go! Everybody move! Everybody move! Out! Out! Come on, keep moving!
LAFORGE: Commander, I need to bring that door down!
COMPUTER: Antimatter injection breach. Evacuate immediately.
RIKER: Keller, can you get to a Jeffries tube? Ensign Keller, answer me!
DAVIS: You killed her. Keller is still in there!
LAFORGE: Commander, radiation levels are critical. We've got to seal it off.
DAVIS: She was right behind me!
RIKER: Bring down the door!

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER (voiceover): Bring down the door.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I need to bring that door down.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Out, out! Let's go!
DAVIS: Keller is still in there.
JEV: Didn't you hear him? Keller is still in there.
RIKER: Riker to transporter room three. Prepare to beam Ensign Keller out of the engine room.
JEV: Keller is still in there.
DAVIS: You killed her.
RIKER: Ensign Keller, answer me.
JEV: You killed her.
LAFORGE: I've got to get that isolation door down!
JEV: Keller is still in there.
RIKER: Bring down the door!
JEV: You killed her.
DAVIS: You killed her.
JEV: You killed her.
LAFORGE: I need that door down!
DAVIS: Keller is still in there.
JEV: You killed her.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Bridge to Commander Riker. Picard to Commander Riker, answer please. Computer, locate Commander Riker.
COMPUTER: Commander Riker is in his quarters.
WORF: On my way, sir.

[Riker's quarters]

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: I compared Deanna's brain scan to one that I took during her last physical. There is a difference. This time there's a trace of electropathic activity.
PICARD: And Commander Riker?
CRUSHER: I found the same pattern. If I didn't know better, I'd say they both had Iresine syndrome. That's the only medical condition that would produce that pattern.
WORF: What is Iresine syndrome?
CRUSHER: A very rare neurological disorder first diagnosed in the twenty third century. It's characterized by an identical electropathic residue.
PICARD: Why discount the possibility that it's responsible for these comas?
CRUSHER: Iresine is always accompanied by a severely decreased histamine count. Both Will and Deanna showed normal levels. I've asked Commander La Forge to conduct a shipwide diagnostic to determine any other agent that might cause the same electropathic pattern.
WORF: Commander Riker and Counselor Troi were in perfect health until the Ullians arrived. It would be wise to quarantine the aliens.
PICARD: I believe that it would be premature to take that action, Mister Worf. There's no real evidence linking these comas with the Ullians.
CRUSHER: That's true, but there is something curious. The electropathic residue I discovered is located in the thalamus. That's the area of the cerebral cortex that involves memory function.

[Ullian's quarters]
TARMIN: I've been accused of putting people to sleep with one too many stories, Captain, but this is the first time it's ever been suggested that I might be the cause of someone's coma.
PICARD: I mean no disrespect, but we are faced with an alarming situation
INAD: Why do you suspect us, Captain?
PICARD: Suspect is perhaps too strong a word. I'm simply trying to determine what has caused two of my officers to fall into comas.
JEV: But you've already examined us. We aren't carrying anything harmful.
CRUSHER: In further study of the victims, I detected some abnormal patterns in the area of the brain that involves memory.
PICARD: In light of your telepathic abilities, it raises the question.
INAD: Captain, it is not our wish to obstruct you. What would you like?
CRUSHER: If I could do further examinations tomorrow. Perhaps monitor you during a memory probe.
TARMIN: Scrutiny does not frighten us.
JEV: We will be happy to cooperate, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Thank you. I'll contact you in the morning.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're the only person on board to undergo a memory probe by the Ullians. I'd like to do a neurological work up and see if I can detect any residual effect. Doctor Martin will monitor your vital signs while I conduct the scan.
KEIKO: I'm happy to help.
CRUSHER: Have you had any unusual symptoms since the probe? Headaches? Dizziness?
KEIKO: No, nothing like that. It was a wonderful experience.
CRUSHER: Electrical activity is normal. CPK levels are normal. Hippocampus is stable, and the thalamus? The thalamus is normal. There is no indication at all of the electropathic residual.
KEIKO: Is that good?
CRUSHER: Oh, you're fine, Keiko. But I am no closer to solving this mystery.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Computer, locate the electropathic pattern described in medical database four delta one.
COMPUTER: Electropathic pattern located.
LAFORGE: Okay, we're going to track down any possible cause of that brain pattern. First, what are the medical conditions that might account for it?
COMPUTER: Iresine syndrome is a cause of the electropathic pattern.
LAFORGE: Right. And Doctor Crusher already eliminated that, so how many non-medical forces or substances might cause the pattern?
COMPUTER: There are twenty two non-medical agents.
LAFORGE: Okay. And how many of those are present on the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: None are present on the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Are the ship's sensors calibrated to detect all those agents?
COMPUTER: All agents are scanned by the sensors.
LAFORGE: Okay. Let's start with the chemical substances. Name them.
COMPUTER: Ferrazene, hylanatine, dardilion, chrysimite, and manzene.
LAFORGE: Ferrazene has a complex molecular structure. It breaks down into bilenium and tarrisite. Do the sensors scan for those?
COMPUTER: Ship's sensors scan for both compounds.
LAFORGE: And are they present on the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: Bilenium and tarrisite are not present.
LAFORGE: Do any of the substances break down into by-products that are not scanned for?
COMPUTER: Dardilion contains the byproduct nilizene. Sensors do not routinely scan for that substance.
LAFORGE: Well, this isn't a routine situation. Scan for the nilizene.
COMPUTER: There is no nilizene on the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: How did I know you were going to say that? Okay. Let's move on to the non-chemical agents.

[Crusher's office]
MARTIN: Anything more I can do for you?
CRUSHER: No, thanks. I was just doing some reading on the Iresine syndrome. If a new strain has developed, that might explain the normal histamine count.
MARTIN: Any luck?
CRUSHER: Not so far.
MARTIN: Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.
PICARD (voiceover): You shouldn't remember him like this.
PICARD: You don't have to do this.
CRUSHER: It's important to me. I have to see him. To see him. To see him. To see him.
CRUSHER: It's good of you to come.
PICARD: It's the least I can do.
PICARD: You shouldn't remember him like this.
CRUSHER: I have to face the fact that he's gone.
PICARD: You shouldn't remember him like this
CRUSHER: It's good of you to come with me.
PICARD: It's the least I can do.
JEV: You shouldn't remember him like this.
PICARD: It's the least I can do

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I've spent two hours having a cozy chat with the computer. I've checked everything I can think of. Any possible agent that might cause that electropathic pattern.
DATA: I assume from your tone of voice that you were unsuccessful.
LAFORGE: Didn't find a thing.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher's not going to be too happy with

[Crusher's office]
DATA: Emergency medical team to Doctor Crusher's office immediately.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher had me working on a shipwide diagnostic. I'd gone to give her the results when I found her.
PICARD: Did your scans provide any insights into these comas?
LAFORGE: None. I've checked and cross-checked. They're just dead ends.
DATA: We seem to have eliminated the all known factors that may have caused the comas, except for the Ullians.
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to investigate those eleven planets that the Ullians visited. See if there were any reports of unexplained comas.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: In the meantime, we must consider restricting them to their quarters, as a precautionary measure.
LAFORGE: If one of them is behind this, will keeping telepaths in their quarters prevent it from happening again?
PICARD: What else can we do? Station a guard? Set up a force field? I don't see that those would be any more effective.
MARTIN (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
MARTIN (voiceover): Counselor Troi has regained consciousness. She's asked for you, sir.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
TROI: It's like waking up from a nightmare and not remembering what it was about.
PICARD: What is the last thing you do remember?
TROI: My hair. I was brushing my hair.
PICARD: And then?
TROI: I don't know. Just waking up here. Why do I feel so frightened? What happened to me?
PICARD: We were hoping that you could tell us.
TROI: How long have I been here?
MARTIN: Three days.
TROI: Three days?
PICARD: You were the first. The next day Commander Riker fell into a similar coma. Last night, Doctor Crusher.
TROI: What is going on here?
PICARD: We're not certain. It may be that there is some unusual effect produced by the Ullians' telepathic activity. I'm going to talk to them, and in the meantime, you're to stay here and recuperate. And if you remember anything at all about what happened, I want you to tell me immediately.

[Ullian's quarters]
TARMIN: What are you suggesting, Captain?
PICARD: That you voluntarily confine yourself to your quarters, at least until we have unraveled this mystery.
TARMIN: We're to be prisoners?
JEV: Father.
PICARD: No, please don't look on it like that. We have done everything we can to explain these comas. We have performed physical examinations, and neurological scans. We have conducted a ship-wide diagnostic, looking for viruses, parasites, infestations. We have investigated every possible cause we can imagine. We have found nothing. Nothing to explain these comas. The only variable that we have not been able to eliminate is your presence here on this ship. Now, in the light of our actions, we would ask you to understand my request and to agree to it.
JEV: Captain, our history indicates that we do not adversely affect the people we contact.
PICARD: I know that.
JEV: Then are you implying an intentional assault?
PICARD: I'm simply considering all possibilities.
JEV: Surely you would give us the chance to prove that we are innocent?
PICARD: If that's possible, of course.
JEV: Then I would propose doing a memory probe of Counselor Troi. You have said that she doesn't remember anything that happened before she lapsed into unconsciousness. I could retrieve that memory There is a possibility that it could explain the coma and prove our innocence.
PICARD: I'm sorry. I couldn't possibly subject Counselor Troi to a potentially dangerous procedure.
TARMIN: And I refuse to be a party to any of these proceedings.
INAD: Jev is making a reasonable request, Captain. If we're to be accused, surely we're entitled to a defense? Tarmin did a memory probe on another of your crew. Has she suffered any ill effects?
PICARD: No.
INAD: And neither will Counselor Troi. Please, you may have as many people here as you need to guarantee her safety, but give us this chance to vindicate ourselves.
PICARD: I will discuss the matter with Counselor Troi.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Well, that's it for Melina Two. No unexplained comas during the time the Ullians were working there.
DATA: We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the Nel system. Perhaps they will show different results.
LAFORGE: Maybe. Or maybe we're not checking for the right thing.
DATA: Please clarify.
LAFORGE: We haven't look into the comas that were explained.
DATA: Why would we do that?
LAFORGE: Well, remember what Doctor Crusher said right after Counselor Troi became unconscious? That it looked exactly like Iresine syndrome except for the histamine count?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: Maybe not every medical facility is as careful as Doctor Crusher. Maybe it's easier to just make a quick diagnosis rather than to keep hunting for the real cause.
DATA: You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome?
LAFORGE: Right, and correlating them with visits by the Ullians. And there we are.
DATA: Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the time Tarmin and his group was there.
LAFORGE: Let's check the other planets. I think we may have something here.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: Counselor, I want to reiterate, if you have any doubts whatsoever about this procedure, you don't have to go through with it.
TROI: I want to do it, Captain. Something awful happened to me and I don't even know what it was.
PICARD: Very well.
JEV: Counselor, what's the last thing you remember the other night?
TROI: Brushing my hair.
JEV: Would you get your hairbrush?
JEV: Tell me about brushing your hair. Do you do it every night?
TROI: Yes, when I'm ready for bed.
JEV: What is it?
TROI: Someone touching my hair.
JEV: Someone's with you in the room?
TROI: No. No, I'm alone. There's no one there.
JEV: Go on.
TROI: I get some hot chocolate.
JEV: Something's happening.
TROI: I'm alone in my quarters. I'm remembering something from a few years ago.
JEV: Go back into that memory. You said someone was touching your hair?
TROI: Yes. And.
TROI: It's Will Riker. That's right. I was thinking of him.
JEV: Remembering a time when you were with him.
TROI: Yes, after a poker game.
JEV: It's a pleasant memory. Stay with it.
TROI: Now he's hurting me no.
JEV: You're frightened.
TROI: I want him to stop. It's not Will. Somebody's taken his place.
JEV: Someone else is there? Who is it?
TROI: No! He shouldn't be here. Why is he here? Stop! You're hurting me.
JEV: Can you see his face?
TROI: Yes.
TARMIN: Imzadi.
TROI: No! Stop! You're hurting me.
INAD: Who is it? Who's doing this to you?
TROI: It's Tarmin. It's your father.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45433.2. We have set a course for Starbase four forty, where the Ullians will disembark and return home.

[Ready room]
JEV: Inad and I have contacted our home planet. If you want to prosecute my father, the authorities there will support you.
PICARD: I'm not sure we have any legal basis for such a prosecution. Memory invasion is simply not a crime we've ever had to contend with.
JEV: According to what I've just learned, it's a practice that was abolished on our world centuries ago.
PICARD: What could motivate someone like your father to commit such an act?
JEV: I don't know. A perverse source of pleasure, perhaps? A way to exercise control over another?
PICARD: Your father claims quite strenuously that he is innocent.
JEV: My father has never been one to admit that he's wrong. But it is difficult to believe he'd be capable of this. I am told that the punishment for this crime is quite severe. We are monitoring my father's telepathic activities. You have my assurance he won't assault anyone else. I am sorry for this, Captain.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Data.
DATA (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: How's your search coming?

[Bridge]
DATA: We have uncovered several cases, sir, but we have not yet completed our investigation.

[Ready room]
PICARD: We'll inform the medical personnel on those planets that we have discovered the true nature of the comas. I'm sure they'll appreciate knowing what

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Really happened.
DATA: Yes, sir. We will keep searching, sir.
LAFORGE: We just got the transmission from the Nel system, Data. No mention of Iresine syndrome but there are two unexplained comas on one planet, none on the other.
DATA: And were the Ullians present?
LAFORGE: Checking the mission logs. That's funny. On stardates 45321 and 45323, when the comas occurred, Tarmin was on his home planet. He wasn't anywhere near the Nel system.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
TROI: Hello, Jev.
JEV: We'll be reaching starbase soon. I wanted to say goodbye, and to apologize again for my father.
TROI: There's no need. You're not responsible for what he did.
JEV: Before all this happened, I had hoped we might become friends.
TROI: We still can.
JEV: After what he's put you through? Maybe you can forget. I'm not sure I can. You're so lovely. I have to go. Goodbye.
TROI: Jev, you're upset. Would you like to talk?
JEV: No.
TROI: You'd feel better if you did.
JEV: Why do you have to be so nice? So lovely.
TROI: What? What's happening? It's happening again.
JEV: You're so beautiful. So fragile.
TROI: It was you. It was always you.
JEV: Have you stopped thinking about us?
TROI: No!
TROI: Don't. Don't. I won't let you!
TROI: No! No!
DATA: Counselor. Are you all right?
TROI: Yes.
TROI: Why are you here? How did you know?
DATA: We discovered two instances of unexplained coma on Nel Three while the Ullians were there, but Tarmin was not part of the group. Further examination revealed that only one Ullian was present at all incidents of coma. Jev.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45435.8. Doctor Crusher and Commander Riker regained consciousness while we were en route to the Ullian home world. The slow process of their recovery has begun.

[Observation lounge]
TARMIN: I have asked that the finest physicians on my world meet with you all upon our return, to help you in your healing process.
CRUSHER: They have been in contact with us already. Thank you.
TARMIN: It has been three centuries since anyone was treated for this, this form of rape. But there are medical records from that era. It was a time of great violence among my people. A time we thought we had put far behind us. That this could happen now, it's unimaginable.
PICARD: Earth was once a violent planet, too. At times, the chaos threatened the very fabric of life, but, like you, we evolved. We found to find better ways to handle our conflicts. But I think no one can deny that the seed of violence remains within each of us. We must recognize that, because that violence is capable of consuming each of us. As it consumed your son.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45470.1. The Enterprise has been diverted to the Moab sector to track a stellar core fragment of a disintegrated neutron star. Our science teams have been asked to monitor the planetary disruptions it may cause.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've got a problem. Our core fragment is going to pass by Moab Four in six days.
PICARD: Isn't that exactly what we anticipated?
RIKER: We didn't anticipate that somebody would be living there.
DATA: An artificial environment has been constructed on the southern continent, sir.
PICARD: Have you definitely established that there's someone's inside it?
DATA: Yes, Captain. Sensors are reading human life forms.
PICARD: Human?
RIKER: Are they responding to our hails, Mister Worf?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Any starships ever reported missing in this sector, Mister Data?
DATA: No, sir.
RIKER: How the hell did they find themselves on a deserted planet?
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure they know we're here.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Our sensors are picking up deep EM readings. Looks like wave patterns from an obsolete subspace relay.
RIKER: Which would suggest they also have the ability to communicate with us.
PICARD: Mister Worf, open the lower band frequencies most commonly used in the last century.
WORF: Channel open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. It is urgent that you respond.
WORF: Sir, defensive shield around the structure is increasing in strength.
RIKER: Not exactly a welcome mat.
PICARD: We mean you no harm. We must warn you that your planet is about to experience massive seismic disruptions due to an approaching stellar core fragment. No structure will be able to withstand them.
WORF: They are responding.
PICARD: On screen.
CONOR (screen): Enterprise, I am Aaron Conor.
PICARD: Mister Conor, we were unaware that there were human colonies in this system.
CONOR (screen): I don't want to be rude, Captain, but we don't wish to interact with outsiders. I'm only responding because of your warning.
PICARD: The fragment will have serious effects on your planet within six days.
CONOR (screen): Yes, I know. We have been tracking it. But our biosphere has been constructed to withstand quakes of eight point seven on the Richter Scale.
RIKER: Mister Data?
DATA: The fragment has a density of one hundred billion kilograms per cubic centimeter. As a result, when it passes Moab Four, it will cause tectonic shifts well beyond eight point seven on the Richter Scale.
PICARD: I'm afraid we're going to have to evacuate your people.
CONOR (screen): Evacuate? That is not possible. There must be an alternative.
PICARD: Well, we will gladly explore the possibility of it with you, Mister Conor. Would you like to come aboard to discuss it?
CONOR (screen): Our environment is sealed. No one can get in or out.
PICARD: We are capable of matter-energy transport.
CONOR (screen): Matter-energy?
PICARD: We can take you directly through the structure.
CONOR (screen): Really? That's quite remarkable.
PICARD: May we arrange for your transport?
CONOR (screen): No, I must stay here. But under the circumstances, I will permit a small delegation from your ship inside the biosphere. If only to see this matter-energy transportation you speak of.
PICARD: Very good. Commander Riker and an away team will join you shortly. Picard out.

[Courtyard]
MARTIN: This is a mistake, Aaron.
CONOR: Good Lord, Martin. What would you have me do?
MARTIN: Anything that would keep them out of here.
CONOR: We have nothing to hide.
MARTIN: We have a great deal to lose.
MARTIN: What is that?
CONOR: It's them. Look at this, Martin.
TROI: It's lovely I can understand why you are reluctant to leave, Mister Conor.
CONOR: Not just reluctant, Miss Troi. It is imperative that we remain.
MARTIN: It would be suicide to evacuate. It would destroy everything we've worked for two centuries to accomplish.
CONOR: You see, this is an engineered society.
RIKER: Engineered?
CONOR: Genetically engineered. Our ancestors came from Earth to develop a perfect society. They believed that through controlled procreation, they could create people without flaws and those people would build a paradise.
TROI: All of you have been selectively bred? Your DNA patterns chosen?
CONOR: Eight generations of us.
MARTIN: We have immeasurably extended the potential of humanity, physically, psychologically. We have evolved beyond, beyond
LAFORGE: Beyond us.
MARTIN: Frankly, yes. No one in this society would be blind, for example. No offense intended.
LAFORGE: I can see you just fine, sir.
MARTIN: Yes. Well, my point was just.
CONOR: Thank you, Martin. Perhaps you've also made it clear there are still a few imperfections we're working on. For the most part, we've achieved a fully integrated existence. Not just among ourselves but with our environment. We don't just live here, we're a part of our environment. it is part of us. Every plant life, every microscopic lifeform is part of a master design. We cannot separate ourselves from it without irreparably altering who and what we are.
MARTIN: Your presence here has already begun to affect the entire balance of our society.
CONOR: If we do not survive, the balance of our society won't mean a great deal, will it?
CONOR: I apologize. But he is performing his function as he is designed to do.
LAFORGE: What function might that be?
CONOR: He is the interpreter of our founders' intentions for this society.
RIKER: A judge?
CONOR: Yes, more or less. Obviously, he has no diplomatic talents.
TROI: And obviously you do.
CONOR: I have been bred to fill this specific role. We grow up knowing exactly what our society needs from us. What we are expected to do.
RIKER: That must take some of fun out it?
CONOR: Not at all. My entire psychological makeup tells me that I was born to lead. I am exactly what I would choose to be. Think of it another way. Are there still people in your society who have not discovered who they really are, or what they were meant to do with their lives? They may be in the wrong job, they may be writing bad poetry. Or worse yet, they may be great poets working as laborers, never to be discovered. That does not happen here. It is, for us, an ideal existence. We will not give it up easily.
TROI: We will do whatever we can to help you preserve it.

[Laboratory]
CONOR: Hannah, I'd like you to meet our guests.
HANNAH: Oh yes, of course, from the starship. I've been looking forward to speaking with you.
CONOR: Hannah Bates is one of our scientists. If there's any way to shore up our defenses, Hannah will find it. She has a remarkable talent with theoretical physics.
HANNAH: I've worked up a few schematics based on gravimetric potentials and deflector energy allocation.
RIKER: Geordi, Troi and I will return to the Enterprise. When you've reached a conclusion, you can contact us.
TROI: Commander, if Mister Conor doesn't mind, I'd like to stay and see more of his colony.
CONOR: No, no, that would be fine. I'd like you to see it.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. One to beam up.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Acknowledged, Commander.
RIKER: Energize.

[Shrubbery]
TROI: You're sure my being here is not going to be disruptive?
CONOR: Disruptive? You mean, what Martin was saying.
TROI: Well, I certainly wouldn't wish to throw off your entire balance.
CONOR: Too late. The damage is done.
TROI: Seriously.
CONOR: I sometimes think that strict interpreters like Martin have forgotten we're still human. We'll adjust, accommodate.
TROI: There must be other unexpected events you have to deal with. An untimely death, an accident.
CONOR: Our geneticists are able to screen out any congenital health risks before conception. Our population is diverse enough to maintain a genetic balance in the event of accidental death. But very little that is unexpected occurs here. Am I making this sound incredibly dull?
TROI: Not at all.
CONOR: I'll tell you the truth, but I'll deny it if you tell Martin. I've found today exhilarating. Meeting you, meeting new people, with new ideas.
TROI: I feel the same about being here. I'm something of a student of human nature, and I find this all fascinating.
CONOR: A student of human nature?
TROI: I'm the ship's Counselor.
CONOR: Ah, I'm afraid you wouldn't find much work here, Counselor.
TROI: I'd book my next vacation at your hotel, if you had one.
CONOR: Well in that case, I shall have to have them build one.

[Laboratory]
HANNAH: The biosphere's superstructure will never withstand the tectonic shocks. The environment would be compromised.
LAFORGE: That's how I see it.
HANNAH: Your ship. What kind of energy output is it capable of generating?
LAFORGE: We have a matter-antimatter warp reaction system, the most powerful in the Starfleet. Normally, it kicks plasma up into the terawatt range. Why?
HANNAH: Well, either we're going to have to move or that fragment is.
LAFORGE: We can move a small moon or an asteroid, but a stellar core fragment? That's much too massive for our tractor beam.
LAFORGE: What's that?
HANNAH: A wild idea, purely theoretical.
LAFORGE: A multiphase tractor beam?
HANNAH: When we first spotted the fragment approaching, I came up with the idea, but we can't generate the kind of energy we would need. You can.

[Courtyard]
LAFORGE: We'd need Hannah on the ship.
MARTIN: No.
HANNAH: With my theories and their equipment, we might be able to alter the fragment's path. It's our only chance to avoid evacuation.
CONOR: No one had ever come here and no one had ever left, until today. This is a date to note in our history books.
MARTIN: This is in direct violation of the intentions of our founders, Aaron.
CONOR: I don't think they intended us to die, Martin.
MARTIN: Her absence will create an additional imbalance.
CONOR: Temporarily. The circumstances require us to be flexible.
MARTIN: We have no idea how molecular transport will affect her DNA.
LAFORGE: It won't affect her DNA at all. There's been over a century of evidence to prove that.
CONOR: You can go, Hannah.
TROI: May I return later?
CONOR: I look forward to it.
LAFORGE: Enterprise, three to beam up. Energize.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Hannah Bates have spent three days trying to find a way to adjust the path of the core fragment. If they do not succeed in the next forty eight hours, we will need to begin evacuation.

[Ready room]
TROI: I believe some will choose to risk death rather than leave, Captain.
PICARD: You've spent a good deal of time on the surface. How do you suggest we change their minds?
TROI: I'm not sure we can. It would mean abandoning their fundamental way of life.
PICARD: They've managed to turn a dubious scientific endeavor into dogma.
TROI: You don't approve of genetic engineering.
PICARD: It was a bad idea whose time is long past.
TROI: They seem to have made it succeed.
PICARD: They've given away their humanity with this genetic manipulation. Many of the qualities that they breed out, the uncertainty, the self-discovery, the unknown, those are many of the qualities that make life worth living. Well, at least to me. I wouldn't want to live knowing that my future was written, that my boundaries had been already set, would you?
TROI: I've asked myself that question a lot during the past few days. I don't know. I doubt it. Nevertheless, it's what they believe in, and it won't be an easy matter to talk them into leaving.
PICARD: This leader of theirs, Conor, he seems to be a reasonable man.
TROI: I find him very reasonable. Open to suggestions, thoughtful, quite disarming. The perfect administrator.
PICARD: I'm sure. Will he leave when he sees there's no other choice?
TROI: I don't know. I hope so.
PICARD: You admire him.
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Then help him to see the reality of what may happen to his colony. If he makes the right decision, if he's as good a leader as he's designed to be, then perhaps the others will follow.

[Engineering]
HANNAH: If we increase warp power transfer by eighty percent.
LAFORGE: It's just going to blow the emitters again.
HANNAH: We won't be able to reinforce the conduit to hold that power level. It just doesn't work.
LAFORGE: Yeah. I haven't had any sleep in so long, my eyelids feel like they have lead weights attached.
HANNAH: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Hmm?
HANNAH: Were you always blind?
LAFORGE: I'm sorry. I probably shocked the hell out of you, didn't I?
HANNAH: No.
LAFORGE: I'll put it back on.
HANNAH: Don't. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to embarrass you.
LAFORGE: I've never been embarrassed by this, Hannah. Never. I was born blind. I've always been this way.
HANNAH: May I see it? Your visor?
LAFORGE: Sure. So, I guess if I had been conceived on your world, I wouldn't even be here now, would I?
HANNAH: No.
LAFORGE: No, I'd've been terminated as a fertilized cell.
HANNAH: It was the wish of our founders that no one had to suffer a life with disabilities.
LAFORGE: Who gave them the right to decide whether or not I should be here? Whether or not I might have something to contribute.
HANNAH: I don't know what to say. Here you go. How does it work?
LAFORGE: Well, the visor scans the electromagnetic spectrum between one hertz and one hundred thousand terahertz, converts it all to usable frequencies and then transmits that information directly to my brain.
HANNAH: What about the data conversion rates? How do you avoid a sensory overload?
LAFORGE: A bank of pre-processors compresses the data stream into pulses, you see. That way, my visual cortex never. Wait a minute. Wait just a minute. We should be able to send a high-energy pulse through the tractor system. If it's short enough, it shouldn't overload the emitters. The technology is right here. If we could adapt those pulse compression routines and then apply them to the warp power conduits.
HANNAH: We'd have to avoid tractor force rebounding, but that shouldn't be hard.
LAFORGE: Sure. With a few modifications. Oh, that's perfect.
HANNAH: What?
LAFORGE: If the answer to all of this is in a visor created for a blind man who never would have existed in your society. No offense intended.

[Courtyard]
CONOR: Please, Matthew, continue.

[Biosphere wall]
TROI: It's hard to believe. So much loveliness here, just a few meters away from such desolation.
CONOR: It's hard to believe we're about to lose it.
TROI: This must sound incredibly simplistic but, can't you re-engineer all this on another planet?
CONOR: A nursery rhyme my mother used to read to me has been running round and round my mind since this all began.
TROI: A nursery rhyme?
CONOR: Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.
TROI: All the King's horses and all the King's Men, couldn't put Humpty together again.
CONOR: Why do we tell our children such ghastly stories?
TROI: Perhaps to prepare them for times like these.
CONOR: We are every bit as fragile as an egg and as impossible to reconstruct. We are integrated and refined to such a degree that any fundamental change would lead to chaos.
TROI: I'm so sorry, Aaron. I wish I could do something to help.
CONOR: You have helped. You've been wonderful these past few days. You've been my Counselor.
TROI: No, a Counselor has to maintain a discreet distance. I'd rather think of us as friends.
CONOR: Friends? That just won't do either.
CONOR: Will it?
TROI: Aaron.
CONOR: I must confess, a part of me knows that if I transport through these walls, you'll be on the other side.
TROI: This is wrong.
CONOR: Terribly wrong.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: In order to move the core fragment to a safe trajectory, we needed our tractor beam to be able to handle high power pulses.
HANNAH: And we needed a much more efficient emitter to do that.
LAFORGE: About four times more efficient.
HANNAH: And we couldn't get anywhere near that without overloading the emitter arrays.
LAFORGE: So, we added a little visor technology to the process and we were able to boost the effective force and, at the same time, lower the power conduit stress levels.
PICARD: What's the increase in efficiency?
LAFORGE: Up to almost three hundred percent.
RIKER: That's not enough.
HANNAH: That's true. We won't be able to move the fragment as far as we'd like to, but
LAFORGE: But if we also fortify the biosphere's structural integrity at the same time
HANNAH: With some of the shield improvements I've discovered here, it could work.
LAFORGE: Of course, we'll have to lend them some of our engineering support crews.
PICARD: Advise Mister Conor, Number One, and brief the appropriate officers. Prepare them for transport as soon as Mister Conor approves.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Courtyard]
CONOR: You're up early.
TROI: I'm still on Enterprise time. Aaron, I'm going back to the ship. I'm not going to see you again.
CONOR: Why?
TROI: Because it's the right thing to do.
CONOR: I'm not convinced of that.
TROI: You know it as well as I do.
CONOR: You're angry.
TROI: Yes, I'm angry. I'm angry with myself for allowing this to happen.
CONOR: Deanna.
TROI: I could fall in love with you so easily, but we both know the end of that story, don't we? How would Martin feel about introducing half-Betazoid DNA into the genetic balance?
CONOR: If we have to evacuate, anything's possible.
TROI: Listen to yourself. A few days ago you wouldn't even talk to us. This is my fault. I'm so sorry.
CONOR: I need you here. This doesn't have to happen again.
TROI: I have to go.
HANNAH: Good news, Aaron. We should be able to change the course of the core fragment, but we'll also need to fortify the structure. And we're going to need help to do it.
LAFORGE: We'll need to bring down engineering crews from the Enterprise to work with your people for the next forty eight hours.
CONOR: Engineering crews?
LAFORGE: They have to install five new shield generators and power supplies.
HANNAH: Fifty officers are waiting for your approval to transport down. We don't have much time, Aaron.
CONOR: Is there any other choice?
HANNAH: None.
LAFORGE: Enterprise, you may begin transport when ready.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has moved to a parallel course with the core fragment. We must adjust its trajectory by a minimum of one point two degrees to ensure the colony's safety.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Bring us within range of the fragment, Ensign.
FELTON: Aye, sir.
PICARD: You may proceed

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Good luck.
HANNAH: You, too.
LAFORGE: Engage tractor beam. Okay, let's give it a try. Shutting down non-critical systems.
HANNAH: Emitter circuits one hundred seventy percent over standard.

[Bridge]
DATA: Increasing impulse power to tractor emitters. EPS power levels rising.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Transferring warp power to tractor beam generator.
HANNAH: Graviton generators operating normally. Surge pulse now synchronized. Emitters radiating at three hundred twenty percent over standard.
LAFORGE: Bridge, we need more power.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reduce life support to minimum requirements, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
HANNAH: Three hundred ninety percent over standard.
LAFORGE: Come on, come on.
HANNAH: No change in the fragment's course.
LAFORGE: We've got to increase the pulse frequency.
HANNAH: The emitter circuits won't hold for long.
LAFORGE: We won't need them for long.
HANNAH: Four hundred percent over standard.
LAFORGE: Okay. Now we're getting there.
HANNAH: The fragment's moved point four degrees off its previous heading. Point six five. It's working.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have lost one of the emitter circuits.
WORF: Life support failure. Decks nine, twelve, and thirteen.
RIKER: Engage evacuation procedures for those decks. Geordi, we're going to need power back soon.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Engineering]
HANNAH: Fragment's new heading adjustment is at one point zero one degrees. Is it enough?
LAFORGE: Not yet. Hold on.
DATA (voiceover): We've lost

[Bridge]
DATA: The second lateral emitter circuit.
WORF: Losing life support systems on decks five through nine. Evacuation procedures initiated.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Hold on, Captain.
DATA: Shipwide life support failure in fifteen seconds, sir.

[Engineering]
HANNAH: Almost there, Geordi. Course shift is at one point one six degrees.

[Bridge]
DATA: Termination of all life support in five seconds.

[Engineering]
HANNAH: One point one eight.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Now, Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Shutting down all tractor emissions. Transferring power back to life support.
HANNAH: One point two. We've got it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Life support normal on all decks.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The fragment's course has been altered by one point two one degrees, sir.
PICARD: Hail the colony.
CONOR (screen): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Success, Mister Conor. With the upgrades to your biosphere, the core fragment should no longer be a danger.
CONOR (screen): I cannot adequately express my appreciation to your crew. Is Hannah able to hear me?

[Engineering]
HANNAH: Yes, yes. Go ahead, Aaron.
CONOR (screen): This is an historic achievement, Hannah. You've done a wonderful thing for our people.
HANNAH: Thank you.
CONOR (screen): We look forward to honoring you appropriately when you return. Thank you again, Captain. Conor out.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The stellar core fragment has passed safely out of the Moab system. The colony was shaken by powerful temblors, but fortunately there were no injuries and only minor damage was reported.

[Courtyard]
RIKER: Energize.
RIKER: That should do it. All members of the Enterprise crew are accounted for, Mister Conor.
CONOR: They've been invaluable, Commander. Thank you again.
RIKER: If there's nothing else, we'll be on our way.
CONOR: Would you tell Deanna Troi for me that I'm sorry I didn't have the opportunity to say goodbye personally?
RIKER: I'm sure she'll feel the same way.
CONOR: A breach in the biosphere. Get Hannah Bates.

[Biosphere wall]
HANNAH: Apparently, the refortification wasn't adequate. There's definite structural damage. It appears that the tectonic shifts created a breach.
MARTIN: Can it be repaired?
HANNAH: I don't know. I'll have to run a diagnostic in the lab. Unless we seal it and fast we may have to evacuate.
CONOR: How long do we have, Hannah?
HANNAH: Based on the level of toxicity I'm reading, it may be only a matter of hours.
LAFORGE: Mind if I give her a hand, Commander?
RIKER: By all means.

[Laboratory]
HANNAH: Isn't it amazing after all we went through?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Amazing.
HANNAH: Looks bad. It's cracked well beneath the surface.
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this?
HANNAH: What do you mean?
LAFORGE: There's no breach.
HANNAH: What are you talking about. Look at it, it's right here. I measured the toxic leak. You saw me.
LAFORGE: Hannah, my visor's positronic scan would have detected the leak. Its molecular pattern enhancer would have picked up even the smallest crack.
HANNAH: The damn thing doesn't miss much, does it. Fine. I'll tell them the truth. Will that make you happy?
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this?
HANNAH: I was born to be one of the best scientific minds of my generation, and in the past five days I have encountered technology that I have barely imagined. And I've got to ask myself, If we're so brilliant how come we didn't invent any of these things?
LAFORGE: Well, maybe necessity really is the mother of invention. You never really look for something until you need it.
HANNAH: But all my needs have been anticipated and planned for before I'm even born. All of us in this colony have been living in the dark ages. It's like we're victims of a two hundred year old joke. Until you came, we could only see to the wall of our biosphere. Suddenly our eyes have been opened to the infinite possibilities.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Asylum?
LAFORGE: She wants to leave the colony.
RIKER: She may not be the only one. The science teams that went down to the surface fielded a lot of questions from colonists who were more than curious about what's outside their world.
WORF: Why shouldn't we grant them asylum?
TROI: We can't do that.
LAFORGE: We have to do that.
TROI: Do you understand what it would do to the colony?
LAFORGE: I understand these are human beings, Counselor, with free will. If she wants to leave, she has every right to.
RIKER: And what happens to the colony if she does? If others join her?
CRUSHER: The society is genetically integrated. Suddenly there would be gaps, missing pieces.
TROI: It would destroy them.
CRUSHER: There must be something we can do to help.
PICARD: We may have done too much to help them already, Doctor.
WORF: We saved them from destruction.
PICARD: Did we? Counselor, I think it's time you took me to meet Mister Conor.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Transporter room three.
TROI: Computer, halt. Captain, I have to tell you something, and it isn't easy for me because I've used very poor judgment. Actually, I've acted quite unprofessionally.
PICARD: Counselor, what is it you say? Take a deep breath.
TROI: Conor and I have had a relationship.
PICARD: I see.
TROI: It should never have happened. I knew there was concern about outside influences and I should have been more careful.
PICARD: What is your status with him now?
TROI: I did not intend to see him again.
PICARD: Would you prefer not to return to the surface?
TROI: No, I think I should come with you, but I wanted you to know before we went down.
PICARD: I appreciate that. Computer, resume.
TROI: I wanted so much to help him, to be there for him, but the more I was.
PICARD: Deanna, we all went into this with the best intentions.
TROI: I should have walked away as soon as I saw what was happening.
PICARD: But you didn't. And that's human. We make mistakes. Genetic manipulation or not, nobody's perfect.

[Laboratory]
MARTIN: You would ignore the welfare of the colony for your own selfish interests.
HANNAH: The welfare of this colony would be best served by rejoining the human race.
MARTIN: She has been contaminated by the people on that ship.
TROI: Aaron.
PICARD: Mister Conor, I believe that you and I should talk.
MARTIN: This is your doing. We should never have answered your hails.
HANNAH: If we'd followed that advice, Martin, we'd all be dead by now. So much for the welfare of this colony.
MARTIN: You are not taking her with you.
HANNAH: I'm leaving. And I'll tell you something else. There are at least a dozen others who are ready to go with me.
TROI: Hannah, let's allow Aaron and Captain Picard to discuss this. Why don't we go for a walk?
HANNAH: There's nothing else for them to talk about.
CONOR: Martin.
MARTIN: I think it would be helpful if I.
CONOR: I want to talk with Captain Picard alone.
MARTIN: But
CONOR: Thank you, Martin.
CONOR: The irony is, he's the one who saw this coming from the moment you arrived. Because I didn't want to hear it, I chose not to listen.
PICARD: You made decisions you felt would save your colony.
CONOR: No. No, I wish it were that simple, but I can't forgive myself so easily. You see, Captain, I know what Hannah Bates is feeling. I've been feeling it as well. I've found your people intriguing and stimulating as she has. I've been every bit as curious about you as the next man. But I am not the next man. I am the leader of these people. And every genetic fiber in my being demands that I protect them. Instead, I have betrayed them. I have allowed this to happen.
PICARD: We have both allowed this to happen.
CONOR: Then let us both find a way to stop it from going any further.
PICARD: I wish I could see a way.
CONOR: Picard, I was born to govern this colony, not to dismantle it.
PICARD: If you force them to stay, you will be suppressing their human rights.
CONOR: If even a handful leave, the damage to this society will be devastating. What about the rights of those who would stay behind? They are the ones who will inherit the social chaos that will follow for generations. Your arrival created this problem. Your departure solves it.
PICARD: That is simplistic.
CONOR: Refuse them passage.
PICARD: I cannot ignore the requests of people, humans, who ask for transport away from here.
CONOR: Nor can you ignore the fact that thousands will suffer if you agree to take them. And as suffering grows, more will demand to leave. We are witnessing the end of this existence. I implore you, Captain, do not let this happen.
PICARD: You would have me make the decision for you, nut I can't do that. I am willing to talk to these people with you, and I will urge them not to make an impulsive choice, but if finally they choose to leave, the Enterprise will not turn them away.

[Courtyard]
CONOR: Captain Picard has decided to grant transport to any individuals who wish to leave Genome Colony. I'm asking you to stay.
HANNAH: Aaron, don't you see we can't be happy here any longer? We were innocent. it will never be that way again.
CONOR: The experiences of the past week will become part of our heritage. We will adjust. In a few generations, we will be able to
HANNAH: We're not willing to stay here a few generations.
CONOR: Give me six months. Just wait six months before you leave.
HANNAH: What will that accomplish?
PICARD: It's true that our presence here has had an unintended influence on your society. But it's done and there is no way to undo it. But feelings are running very high. Perhaps it's not such a bad idea that you should take adequate time to weigh carefully the consequences of what you're about to do. We are prepared to return in six months.
HANNAH: In other words, we are being asked to stay here for six months while they pressure us to change our minds.
PICARD: In five days, you have seen only the most superficial evidence of what life is like outside this biosphere.
HANNAH: Would you ever choose to live aboard a ship in a bottle, Captain? You are in command of a starship. You live to explore the unknown. We ask for that same privilege.
CONOR: Hannah, this is your home. We are all, in a sense, your family. Don't we deserve an opportunity to open a dialogue on this issue at the very least? I am only asking for six months.
HANNAH: It won't make any difference. You'll only be putting the people of this colony through unnecessary pain and anguish.
MARTIN: You are the ones who are causing pain and anguish in this colony. You.
HANNAH: Don't you see, Aaron? It's over. It's time for you to lead our people into a new era. You could come with us.
CONOR: When you're ready to come home, you will be welcome.
TROI: What will you do now?
CONOR: Attempt to assess the damage. Spend the rest of my life on the near impossible task of rebuilding this society without the proper pieces.
TROI: Aaron, you acted in the best interests of your people. There was no way to avoid what happened.
CONOR: I replay each step of this in my mind, looking for the wrong turn, the mistake in judgment. I can find only one. And as hard as I try, I cannot regret even that one. In fact, I'm quite certain that, given the opportunity, I would choose to make the same mistake again. I can only wonder why, with all the hundreds of genetically compatible women, I would fall in love with you.
TROI: Don't say that.
CONOR: Perhaps it's your imperfections which make you so unique. But I am in love with you, Deanna Troi, and I will always be.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The colonists are all on board, sir.
PICARD: How many finally?
RIKER: Twenty three.
PICARD: If we ever needed reminding of the importance of the Prime Directive, it is now.
RIKER: The Prime Directive doesn't apply. They're human.
PICARD: Doesn't it? Our very presence may have damaged, even destroyed, their way of life. Whether or not we agree with that way of life or whether they're human or not is irrelevant, Number One. We are responsible.
RIKER: We had to respond to the threat from the core fragment didn't we?
PICARD: Of course we did. But in the end we may have proved just as dangerous to that colony as any core fragment could ever have been.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45494.2. We're investigating a series of subspace signals that may indicate intelligent life in the Epsilon Silar System. We are within sensor range.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: The characteristic response to the Kriskov Gambit is to counter with the el-Mitra Exchange, particularly since I have already taken both your rooks. By missing that opportunity, you have left your king vulnerable.
TROI: We'll see.
DATA: As you wish, Counselor. Check.
DATA: Intriguing. You have devised a completely unanticipated response to a classic attack. You will checkmate my king in seven moves.
TROI: Data, chess isn't just a game of ploys and gambits. It's a game of intuition.
DATA: You are a challenging opponent, Counselor.
TROI: Thanks, but don't think a compliment's going to get you out of our bet. You owe me one Samarian Sunset made in the traditional style, as only you can make it, Data.
DATA: I will honor our agreement.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Raise your arm to the side.
CRUSHER: Is that it?
KRISTIN: I'm afraid so. What do you think?
CRUSHER: Well, it looks like you tucked when you should have flattened out.
KRISTIN: Something like that.
CRUSHER: Turn your head to the left. Some tearing of the ligaments. Nothing we can't take care of.
KRISTIN: Good.
CRUSHER: If I remember correctly, the last time you graced my Sickbay, you were diving off the Cliffs of Heaven on Sumiko Four. Holodeck program 47C.
KRISTIN: Same thing. Only that time, I flattened out when I should have tucked.
CRUSHER: Well, as your Doctor, I would like to recommend the Emerald Wading Pool on Cirrus Four. It's a lot safer.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Navigators on this ship have been doing flight handling assessments the same way for years, Ensign.
RO: And I've found a better way.
RIKER: Bridge. Do you mind if we discuss changes in procedure before you make them?
RO: If I had come to you in advance and asked you to do it my way
RIKER: I might have said
RO: No.
RIKER: Yes, maybe. The point is, I didn't get the chance.
RO: The point is, with all due respect Commander, you're trying to turn me into your idea of the model officer.
RIKER: The rules on this ship do not change just because Ro Laren decides they do.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are picking up a subspace signal, Captain. Sensors indicate a small spacecraft ahead.
LAFORGE: The configuration is unfamiliar. Nothing in our database comes close.
WORF: Within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Worf.
WORF: No discernable armament. Reading one lifeform aboard.
PICARD: Hail the vessel.
WORF: No response, Captain.
LAFORGE: We're being scanned. It's not like any sensor system I've ever seen. Shall we raise shields?
PICARD: No, let's begin this with a show of good faith.
WORF: Sir, the scans are now matching the frequency of our optical data network. It could be an attempt to access our computer system.
LAFORGE: Scanning intensity has increased by fifteen hundred percent.
PICARD: Shields up.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: One Samarian Sunset, made in the traditional style.
TROI: It's beautiful.
DATA: I hope you enjoy it.

[Bridge]
WORF: The scanning signal has penetrated our shields.
LAFORGE: Computers are going down.
PICARD: Take evasive action.
RO: The helm's not responding.
PICARD: What happened?
LAFORGE: What the hell?
RIKER: I don't know who any of you are.
PICARD: Nor do I. I don't even remember who I am.
LAFORGE: Looks like we're all in the same boat.
RIKER: Make that on the same starship.
MACDUFF: But who are we? What are we doing here?
RO: It looks like I'm the pilot. We're not going anywhere now. The helm's dead.
PICARD: But you still know how to work it.
RO: Yes.
RIKER: This console has tactical configuration?
WORF: Yes. Phaser power status, intruder scan, torpedo guidance. But they do not appear to be operable.
PICARD: Clearly, we still possess certain skills. It would seem we know how to operate this ship. But our identities have somehow been erased or suppressed.
RIKER: We are on the Bridge. There's a good chance this is our ship. Looks like you're the leader.
WORF: Perhaps we should not jump to conclusions. I am decorated as well.
PICARD: It seems to me that determining leadership is not crucial right now. We need to find out who we are and well, what we're doing out here.
MACDUFF: But how did this happen? What did this to us?
LAFORGE: Better still, who did this to us? I've got some intermittent sensor readings here. The scan keeps repeating itself like it's stuck, but it looks like there's metallic debris right in front of us. Distance, seventeen kilometers.
RIKER: The remains of another ship?
LAFORGE: That's a good possibility.
WORF: Perhaps we were engaged in battle.
MACDUFF: If they stunned us with some type of bioelectric field that could have wiped out our memories.
RO: Then we fired back, destroyed them.
PICARD: But if that presumption is correct, then we could have sustained other damage. Um, Computer, status report.
RIKER: No voice interface.
LAFORGE: No interface, period. Hey. Got something. I've accessed the basic system directories.
PICARD: Can we get a general status report?
LAFORGE: Life support systems throughout the ship are fully operational. Navigation, propulsion offline.
RO: What about communications?
LAFORGE: Completely disrupted.
RO: That rules out a distress signal.
RIKER: If we even knew where to send it.
PICARD: Do we have an onboard communications system?
LAFORGE: We do now.
PICARD: Lets use it. This ship must have a crew. They may still have their memories.
RO: We should be careful what we say. There could be a boarding party somewhere on the ship.
WORF: Bridge to all personnel. Select a representative from your group to contact the Bridge and report on your status.

[Sickbay]
WORF (voiceover): Remain where you are and stay calm. Bridge out.
KRISTIN: Well, that helps a lot.
CRUSHER: Report on our status? I wonder if every one else is in the same condition as we are.
KRISTIN: This hurts.
CRUSHER: How's that?
KRISTIN: Thanks.
CRUSHER: I didn't even think. I just picked it up and knew how to use it. At least I have an idea of what I'm doing here.
KRISTIN: But what about me? I mean, I'm a patient in a bathing suit. That doesn't say much.
CRUSHER: No, it doesn't.
KRISTIN: Do you have any clothes around here I could borrow? At least until I figure out where the swimming pool is?

[Bridge]
MACDUFF: We've heard from all decks. There are over a thousand people on board. Everyone's had their memories affected in the same way we have.
WORF: I have completed a survey of our tactical systems. We are equipped with ten phaser banks, two hundred and fifty photon torpedoes, and a high capacity shield grid.
MACDUFF: We're a battleship.
WORF: It appears so.
RO: This turbolift system gives us access to the rest of the ship.
RIKER: That sounds like the next logical step. Start with the most crucial areas.
RO: Main Engineering, deck thirty six. I'm on my way.
RIKER: Whoa, wait a minute. We've got to coordinate our efforts here first.
RO: I just need to do something.
RIKER: Look, I feel the same way. We all do. But if anything's going to get done.
RO: I know, I just. It's really an ugly feeling I don't like being so out of control.
RIKER: Well, we're going to have to depend on each other if we're going to get through this, okay?
RO: Okay.
RIKER: We're going to search the ship.
WORF: Very well. Proceed.
LAFORGE: I'll go with you. I want to get my hands on the computer core. See if we can re-establish control from there.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've accessed the optical data network for the engineering core. I can monitor every system that's routed through here.
RO: Warp and impulse drive are reading within tolerance levels. So are the tactical arrays, defensive and offensive.
LAFORGE: Everything looks functional. Now, if we could just access the control systems, we could get them up and running.
RIKER: According to the schematics, the engineering computer core access is down that corridor.
RO: Weapons, propulsion and shields are the priorities. We could be in danger of another attack.
LAFORGE: That's where I'll start.
RIKER: We'll begin our crew survey on decks five through ten. When you get those systems going, try to pull up the personnel files. It'd be nice if we all had names. Right. Good luck.
LAFORGE: Yeah. You too.

[Ready room]
PICARD: So far our survey team has found no deaths or injuries among the crew. Shuttlecraft are all operational, as are the transporters.
MACDUFF: But no one they've talked to knows any more about their identities than we do.
WORF: Engineering is working on accessing the control systems. As soon as the ship is operational, we must make it combat ready.
PICARD: Well, I would recommend that before we prepare for combat, we try to access the ship's logs, find out who we are, what our purpose here might be.
WORF: I disagree. We must first make ourselves ready for battle. That is the highest priority.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge.
WORF: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've regained control of navigation, propulsion, weapons and communications.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE (voiceover): We should be able to tie them into the Bridge in just a few minutes.
WORF: Well done. Now we are ready.
PICARD: The question is, for what?

[Bridge]
MACDUFF: The phasers are operational.
WORF: We now have full tactical control.
PICARD: We should run a complete diagnostic of all command systems.
WORF: A full diagnostic would require us to take our systems offline. We would be defenseless.
PICARD: If we're going to trust our lives to these systems, we should be certain they're not going to fail.
MACDUFF: The computer was damaged. Some processors might still be down.
WORF: Proceed with the diagnostic.
WORF: What have you found, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Not much. The brain scans I've run are unusual, but there's no damage to the hippocampus. That suggests that we still have our long-term memories but somehow they're being blocked.
PICARD: Is it possible to bypass the normal pathways? To get at those memories some other way?
CRUSHER: That's what I'm hoping. What I need now is to see some normal brain scans for comparison. Is there any chance I can get the crew's medical files?
WORF: We are currently running a full diagnostic. Computer resources are limited.
PICARD: The medical records are our next priority.
CRUSHER: Thank you.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: I guess these are my quarters, but I don't remember anything.
RIKER: If it's any comfort, we're all in the same situation, so stay put for now. We'll be back in touch.
CREWMAN: Okay, sir. Thanks.
RO: That's all I need for now.
RO: Well, that's it for the living quarters on this deck. What's next?
RIKER: There's a large room up ahead called Ten Forward.
RO: Let's go. So if everything were back to the way it was supposed to be, what do you think you'd be doing right now?
RIKER: I'd be having more fun than searching the ship, I'd imagine.
RO: Fun?
RIKER: Well, with that holodeck we just saw. I think I could conjure up an interesting program or two.
RO: Now that's disappointing.
RIKER: Why?
RO: You don't strike me as a man who needs a holodeck to have a good time.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Who reported to the Bridge from this group?
TROI: I did.
RIKER: Have you found anything that might give us some insight into what happened?
TROI: Not specifically, but there are two things that seem unusual. The bartender is an artificial lifeform.
DATA: Can I get you something? A beverage?
RIKER: No, thank you.
RO: I'm fine.
RIKER: Your memories are gone as well?
DATA: The databanks that identify who I am are not functioning.
RIKER: You were going to mention something else?
TROI: I don't know if this means anything, but I seem to have an ability that the others don't. I have a very strong sense of what other people are feeling at times it's almost
RIKER: Is something wrong?
TROI: No. Just for a moment, you seemed familiar.
RIKER: You remember me?
TROI: Not exactly. I mean, I don't know who you are, but there's something about you.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to survey team.
RIKER: Survey team here. Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): We have accessed the personnel files. Report to the Bridge immediately.
RO: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Computer give me a biographical listing of all personnel responsible for primary operation of the ship.
COMPUTER: A full biographical listing is not available.
LAFORGE: Is there any list of the ship's senior officers?
COMPUTER: The crew manifest is available.
LAFORGE: That's better than nothing. Give me the crew manifest.
COMPUTER: Commanding Officer, Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Executive Officer, Commander Keiran MacDuff. Second Officer, Commander William Riker. Operations Officer, Lieutenant Commander Data. Chief Medical Officer, Doctor Beverly Crusher. Ship's Counselor, Lieutenant Commander Deanna Troi. Chief Engineer, Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge. Security Chief, Lieutenant Worf. Helm Officer, Ensign Ro Laren.
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, have the other officers listed here report to the Bridge.
MACDUFF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Your next priority will be to retrieve any information you can about this ship's mission. Contact the Operations Officer to assist you.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RO: He's in Ten Forward, waiting tables.
WORF: Captain. I regret my recent behavior. I assumed an attitude of authority that was unwarranted.
PICARD: Mister Worf, we're all doing the best we can in a difficult situation. Think nothing more of it.
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We haven't finished a full search of the computer records, but we have found out quite a bit.
DATA: This vessel is called the Enterprise. We are part of an organization called the United Federation of Planets. The Federation is currently in a state of war.
TROI: With whom?
LAFORGE: The Lysian Alliance. They're a genocidal race determined to destroy us. The war has been going on for years.
DATA: Starfleet Command believes the Lysians are using a new weapon which has shifted the balance of power to their favor.
LAFORGE: Over the last two months, fourteen Federation ships have been captured, apparently very easily, their crews held captive on Lysia.
PICARD: What do we know about this weapon?
DATA: Our scientists theorize the Lysians are using an energy wave, either plasma-based or a subspace interference pattern. The weapon severely disrupts a starship's computer system as well as the mental functions of its crew.
MACDUFF: That's what happened to us.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do we have any record of our current mission?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We're approximately here. We've been ordered to cross into Lysian territory and destroy their Central Command. This is it. The nerve center for the entire Lysian military operation.
TROI: Captain, there's been a great deal of damage to our computer system. Maybe we're not getting the correct information.
PICARD: What are you saying?
TROI: That we get confirmation of this mission from our headquarters.
WORF: If we use subspace radio we will be detected.
TROI: There could be thousands of lives at stake.
LAFORGE: Our orders specifically require us to maintain radio silence.
DATA: Our mission is part of a highly coordinated effort to put an end to the war. There are other vessels on other fronts, all working according to an intricate plan.
LAFORGE: We're the lynchpin to the operation. If we don't destroy the Central Command, the entire effort will fail.
WORF: He's right, Captain. Our choice is clear.
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, set a course for the Lysian Central Command.

[Corridor]
RIKER: These are your quarters.
TROI: Thanks for your help. Come in for a minute?

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Recognize anything?
TROI: It's like it belongs to someone else. Nothing feels right. This room, this ship, most of all this war we're fighting.
RIKER: I don't imagine war ever feels right.
TROI: I suppose that's true.
RIKER: What is it?
TROI: That same feeling. You seem familiar. You're the only thing that does.
RIKER: Can you remember anything specific about us?
TROI: I don't know. It's more like remembering an emotion. Feelings that you're somehow associated with.
RIKER: I hope they're good feelings.
TROI: Yes, they are. This entire situation is a little unnerving.
RIKER: It's been a long day. We've all been through a lot.
TROI: We certainly have.
RIKER: I'll see you tomorrow. Goodnight.

[Riker's quarters]
RO: Hi.
RIKER: I know I didn't get the wrong room.
RO: I just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated. Besides, I have this funny feeling that maybe I spend most of my off hours here.
RIKER: Really?
RO: For all we know, you and I could be married.
RIKER: For all we know, you and I could hate each other.
RO: Sort of exciting, isn't it? We just don't know.
RIKER: We might regret this.
RO: Regret what? Aren't you being a little presumptuous? Like I said, I just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated.
RIKER: Maybe we should switch quarters.
RO: Maybe we should stay right here and see what happens.
RIKER: What if I snore in my sleep?
RO: What makes you think you're going to get any sleep?

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we have crossed the Lysian border.
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. Go to three quarters impulse.
RO: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a continuous sensor sweep.
WORF: Aye, sir.
MACDUFF: How long till we reach their central command?
DATA: At our current speed, approximately thirty seven hours.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up a vessel directly ahead.
PICARD: Can you identify it, Mister Data?
DATA: The ship matches the Starfleet description of a Lysian destroyer. A short range attack vessel with disruptor style weapons, and a standard crew of fifty three.
WORF: Within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: The destroyer is increasing its speed. They are moving to intercept.
PICARD: Evasive maneuver sequence delta.
RO: Yes, sir.
WORF: They are matching our maneuvers.
MACDUFF: Activating phaser arrays. Ready to fire, sir.
PICARD: Stand by.
MACDUFF: Captain, our orders were to destroy all Lysian warships.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Commander. Tactical analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: The destroyer has minimal shields. Their disruptor capacity appears to be only two point one megajoules.
RIKER: They're no match for the Enterprise.
DATA: Captain, the destroyer is hailing us.
PICARD: Open a channel.
MACDUFF: No! Their new weapon. Whatever it was that erased out our computers and our memories, maybe this is how they do it, over communication channels.
DATA: It is conceivable, sir.
TROI: It's also possible that they just want to talk to us. I think we should respond.
WORF: Captain, the ship is hailing us again.
MACDUFF: If you're wrong, it could mean our destruction. We can't take the risk, Captain.
DATA: The Lysians have stopped transmitting, Captain. They are powering up their disruptors. They have locked onto us, sir.
RIKER: Full shields.
WORF: Shields up.
MACDUFF: Captain?
PICARD: Return fire.
WORF: The ship has been destroyed.
PICARD: Maintain this course, Ensign. Three quarters impulse.
RO: Yes, sir.
MACDUFF: Well done, Captain.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: The Lysian Central Command would have received any transmission from the destroyer by now.
MACDUFF: They're going to be on alert.
RO: I recommend a randomly vectored approach to our target. It would be our best chance of avoiding sort of any pursuit.
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, the success of this mission would be far more likely if we could get our memories back. Is there anything you can do?
CRUSHER: I found several cases resembling our condition in the medical index. The causes are different, but the cure is similar in each case.
RIKER: Could the same treatment work for us?
CRUSHER: That's my hope. It involves increasing the activity of the medial temporal region of the brain, using short-term memory synapses to retrieve long-term memory.
PICARD: When can you start?
CRUSHER: As soon as our medical files become available. It would be dangerous to attempt treatment without them.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Data and I ran into some trouble accessing the medical file areas in the computer, but with a little time I'm pretty sure we'll be able to get there. Three hours, maximum.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file wall.
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt to rewrite the locator subroutine.
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help.
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board?
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent uniqueness among the crew.
LAFORGE: Any conclusions?
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not presently aware.
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship.
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an artificial lifeform such as myself.
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel.
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area. Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves.
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone.
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs.
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in.
TROI: I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while?
RIKER: Please. What's wrong?
TROI: Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I feel a sense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat.
RIKER: You're never going to feel good about this war. None of us will. But we've got to complete our mission. I've been doing a little research, trying to find out about William T Riker.
TROI: What have you discovered?
RIKER: He's a musician, for one thing.
TROI: Very impressive.
RIKER: No one was more surprised than I.
TROI: So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker?
RIKER: He's athletically inclined, loves to climb mountain. He's from somewhere called Alaska. He enjoys exotic food, and takes his vacations on a planet called Risa.
TROI: Ode to Psyche. John Keats.
RIKER: Open it.
TROI: To Will, all my love, Deanna.
RIKER: That may explain some of the familiar feelings we have.
TROI: I don't know what to think.
RIKER: Come in.
RO: Hello, Counselor.
TROI: Ensign.
RO: Am I interrupting anything?
TROI: No.
TROI: I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander.
RIKER: Of course. Thank you, Counselor.
RO: Bye.
RO: And what was all of that about?
RIKER: Oh, we were just discussing the situation we're all in.
RO: Good. Because I have a feeling that I used to be the jealous type.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: What bothers me, Captain, is how specific this damage is. Any records of a personal nature, any files that could tell us about who we are, those are the ones that are gone.
RIKER: It's a little too selective to be coincidence.
CRUSHER: As selective as what was done to our own memories. Skills still in place but personal knowledge is unavailable.
MACDUFF: It is consistent with what we know about the new Lysian weapon.
PICARD: Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files to attempt treatment?
CRUSHER: It would be dangerous to do it without them.
RIKER: It's a risk I think we have to take.
MACDUFF: He's right, Captain. I volunteer for the procedure.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: That's strange. The diencephalic activity is exactly the same. There should be some increase. Let's try broadening the bandwidth. Go to thirty point one. Raise the frequency as well. Increase by thirty three percent.
CRUSHER: Something's wrong with the sequencing program.
CRUSHER: Kieran. Kieran.
MACDUFF: I'm all right. I'm all right. What happened?
CRUSHER: I don't know. Something went wrong with the sequence initiator. We're lucky we didn't lose you. Did any of this work? Do you remember anything more about yourself?
MACDUFF: No. I'm sorry, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Back to square one.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
MACDUFF: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Commander. Please, come in. Sit down. I find myself having grave concerns about our mission.
MACDUFF: Concerns as to its success?
PICARD: No, no, no. More fundamental doubts. Whether or not it can be justified.
MACDUFF: I've been asking myself the same thing. I'm sure our superiors feel their orders are justified.
PICARD: Orders which we can't even verify.
MACDUFF: Orders we can't ignore.
PICARD: But I also can't ignore that we have greatly outclassed the only enemy vessel we've encountered. And that every single possible shred of information which might shed some light on this situation has been conveniently eliminated. I feel as though I've been handed a weapon, sent into a room and told to shoot a stranger. Well, I need some moral context to justify that action, and I don't have it. I'm not content simply to obey orders. I need to know that what I am doing is right.
MACDUFF: So do I. I'd feel a lot better about this if all the questions were answered. And if you want to abandon our mission until our memories return, that's your choice, but I must ask you. Is it right to risk prolonging this war, to allow the needless deaths of thousands on both sides, solely on the basis of our moral discomfort?

[MacDuff's quarters]
MACDUFF: Come.
MACDUFF: Lieutenant.
WORF: You wished to see me, sir?
MACDUFF: I did. Please. Memory or no, it seems clear that both you and I were born for battle. More so than the others.
WORF: I thought this as well.
MACDUFF: It's conceivable that is the very reason that we've been assigned to this vessel. The Enterprise has science officers, medical specialists, engineers. Our Captain is undoubtedly an accomplished diplomat. But we, we are the warriors. There are times for diplomacy. This is not one of them.
WORF: You're concerned about the Captain?
MACDUFF: I am concerned about completing our mission, ending this war. In victory. We may soon face a critical moment. The success of our mission may hang on a split-second decision. A hesitation would kill us all, and those that are counting on us will surely die as well. We cannot let this happen. That'll be all.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are entering the Lysian system, sir.
PICARD: Slow to one quarter impulse.
RO: Yes, sir.
MACDUFF: The Central Command is directly ahead. Still beyond weapon range.
PICARD: Red Alert. Battle stations. Bring us to an attack posture, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sensors show several objects in our path, sir. They are twenty nine meters in length and are unmanned.
MACDUFF: According to Starfleet records, they're sentry pods programmed to defend their Central Command.
RIKER: I'm reading forty seven of them around the perimeter.
PICARD: Tactical analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: The pods are equipped with fusion-generated pulse lasers and minimal shielding.
RIKER: Not much power there.
PICARD: Forward shields to maximum. Lock phasers on the sentry pods. Prepare to return fire.
WORF: Shields up. Phasers locked on targets.
PICARD: Full impulse. Take us straight through them.
DATA: We are through the perimeter, sir.
RIKER: That was too easy.
WORF: We have yet to encounter any battleships. They may lie ahead.
PICARD: Load all torpedo bays. Ready phasers.
WORF: Aye, sir.
MACDUFF: Approaching Central Command.
PICARD: Mister Data, scan for defenses.
DATA: I am picking up no vessels, no additional sentry pods.
RIKER: Optimal firing range in fifty five seconds.
MACDUFF: Phaser banks ready. Loading torpedoes.
PICARD: What are the defensive capabilities of the Central Command?
DATA: Armaments consist of four laser cannons and thirty nine cobalt fusion warheads with magnetic propulsion. Defensive shield output is four point three kilojoules.
RIKER: One photon torpedo ought to do it.
TROI: Data, how many people on that station?
DATA: Fifteen thousand, three hundred eleven.
MACDUFF: We're within range, Captain.
PICARD: Stand by.
MACDUFF: Waiting for your order, sir.
TROI: Captain, this isn't right.
MACDUFF: The rest of our forces are depending on us.
RIKER: How can our mortal enemy be over a hundred years behind us in weapons technology?
MACDUFF: Their battleships may be on the way right now. We must attack!
PICARD: I do not fire on defenseless people. Mister Worf open a channel to the Lysians.
MACDUFF: Belay that order! There's something wrong with the Captain. I'm taking command of this vessel. Fire all weapons! Mister Worf.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are on a course to Starbase three zero one. Doctor Crusher has been working steadily, and has restored the memories of most of the crew.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The Lysians have identified Commander MacDuff as a Satarran, an alien race that's been at war with the Lysians for decades. I have conveyed our deepest regrets to the Lysians over the tragedy of their lost ship and crew.
RIKER: With all the power that MacDuff had to alter our brain chemistry and manipulate the computers, it's hard to believe he needed the Enterprise.
PICARD: The Satarrans' weapons technology is no more advanced than the Lysians'. One photon torpedo would have ended their war.
RIKER: It almost did.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: I hope I'm not interrupting.
TROI: No.
RO: I was hoping to run into you.
TROI: Please, sit down.
RIKER: Well. I'm glad I ran into the two of you. When you have no memory of who you are, or who anybody else is, you find yourself
RO: The Counselor tells me that at times like that, we might do the things that we've always wanted to do.
RIKER: She said that?
TROI: It's psychologically valid.
RO: Commander, don't worry about it. As far as I'm concerned, you and I have shared something that we will treasure forever.
RIKER: Well, I'm a little confused.
TROI: Well, if you're still confused tomorrow, you know where my office is.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45571.2. We are going into orbit around an unexplored M-class moon of Mab-Bu Six. Though the moon was reported to be uninhabited, we have picked up a weak distress call.

[Bridge]
DATA: The intense electromagnetic whirlwinds on the moon's surface make it virtually impossible to locate the source of the signal, Captain.
PICARD: Any indications of life, Mister Worf?
WORF: Scanners read negative, sir, but they may be affected by the interference.
RIKER: Have you ever heard anything like this, Data?
DATA: I believe so, Commander. At Starfleet Academy.
PICARD: The Academy?
DATA: I will verify it. Just as I thought. It is a Starfleet subspace distress signal, standard to Daedalus-class starships.
RIKER: There hasn't been a Daedalus class in service for what?
DATA: One hundred seventy two years, sir.
PICARD: Are there any records of missing ships in this vicinity?
DATA: The USS Essex under the command of Captain Bryce Shumar disappeared in this sector over two centuries ago.
PICARD: Daedalus class.
DATA: I have accessed the subspace transponder signature of the Essex. It is identical to the signal coming from the moon's surface.
RIKER: W arrived a little late.
PICARD: Mute it, Mister Data. With that storm activity down there, it isn't worth the risk to check on a ghost ship. Advise Starfleet that we have solved the mystery of Captain Shumar and the Essex.
TROI: I'm not sure we have. Someone's down there. Alive. First officer's log, supplemental. The electromagnetic interference on the surface has been judged too dangerous for anyone to transport down, so we have taken a shuttle to investigate.

[Shuttle]
DATA: Shields are holding, sir.
RIKER: Wind shear is incredible. Data, keep an eye on the stabilizers. If it's anything like this on the ground, I don't see how anyone can survive on this moon for long.
TROI: Maybe they've been living underground.
RIKER: Question is where? I still can't locate the source of the damn signal. It's bouncing around more than we are.
DATA: Forward thrusters have failed, sir. We are losing power.
RIKER: Enterprise!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead.
RIKER (voiceover): We've lost our thrusters. Attempting to compensate with secondary boosters
WORF: Sir? The shuttlecraft's impulse generators have shut down.
PICARD: Commander, can you hear me?

[Shuttle]
PICARD (voiceover): Enterprise to shuttle, please respond.
RIKER: Hold on! We're going down.
DATA: Initiating emergency landing procedures.
RIKER: Maintain the approach attitude, Data. I'm taking her in. Brace for impact.

[Bridge]
RO: The shuttle has crashed on the surface.
PICARD: Do we have their position?
WORF: I am picking up the shuttle's trace signature, but the surface interference is distorting its position.
PICARD: Can you locate them?
RO: I think I can. I followed their entry almost all the way in. We can calculate the coordinates from the angle of descent.

[Moon surface]
TROI: Your arm.
RIKER: Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's broken. Enterprise?
DATA: It is unlikely that we will be able to establish communication with the ship, given the electromagnetic interference.
RIKER: We'll stay in the area until the Enterprise finds us. Take an inventory of the shuttle. See if there's anything left in there that's usable. The ground cover is all non-porous rock, which makes me believe it's even less likely there's anyone living here.
DATA: There are no instruments left of practical value that have not been damaged by our landing, sir.
TROI: What is that?
RIKER: That doesn't look like any storm front I've ever seen.
DATA: The tricorder is picking up high levels of EM bursts across the spectrum. No lifesign readings other than our own.
TROI: There is someone alive here. I'm more certain of it now than ever.
RIKER: Well, I hope they can find us, because there's no way we'll find them.
TROI: They're coming. They're coming with the storm.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: We can't get a pattern lock on their communicators because of the EM bursts, Captain. There's no way we can beam them out of there, not under these conditions.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The same conditions won't permit a shuttle to land safely, Mister LaForge. Any suggestions?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Give us a minute, Captain.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Sir, let me beam down with a pattern enhancer.
LAFORGE: Chief, there's no guarantee you won't rematerialize in a million pieces if your signal gets caught up in that electromagnetic whirlwind.
O'BRIEN: I can boost the confinement beam. One person might be able to make it.
LAFORGE: Captain, Chief O'Brien wants to beam down to the surface with a pattern enhancer.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): His chances of getting down there safely are no better than fifty-fifty, in my opinion.
WORF: Captain, a major storm front is moving in on the away team's coordinates.
PICARD: You're aware of the risks, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Yes sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I think I can make it.
PICARD (voiceover): All right then. Good luck.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Moon surface]
RIKER: Mister O'Brien! Nice of you to join us.
O'BRIEN: Nice spot for a picnic, sir. We need to distribute these enhancer rods at seven meter lengths. That should do it.
RIKER: Is this storm front going to interfere with the transport, Chief?
O'BRIEN: I'd really like to get us out of here before it hits, Commander. I'm supposed to be feeding the baby lunch. Molly gets in a terribly foul mood if I'm late.
RIKER: I'm with you.
RIKER: Lunch time, Miles! Let's do it!

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Easy, Deanna.
TROI: Where?
CRUSHER: Back on the Enterprise. You're going to be okay.
TROI: My skin, it's tingling.
CRUSHER: You're experiencing the afterimages of the electromagnetic discharge. The sensation will pass. They're all fine, too. Now, I want you to take your time, Counselor. Doctor's orders.
PICARD: Injury report, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Mostly minor abrasions. Commander Riker took the worst of it with a broken arm.
PICARD: Mister Data. Good work, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Ready for duty, sir.
PICARD: You're sure, Number One?
RIKER: It's not the first bone I've ever broken.
PICARD: And how are you, Counselor?
TROI: Very glad to be here.
PICARD: Good. Let's go.

[Corridor]
PICARD: So what happened down there?
RIKER: It was just one hell of a storm. It moved in on our position faster than anything I've ever seen.
PICARD: Was there any evidence of life?

[Turbolift]
RIKER: No, but if Troi was right, we were very close to it.
PICARD: Bridge. How do you suggest we proceed?
RIKER: We need to adjust the scanners so they can penetrate those storms. Do you have any ideas, Data?
DATA: We might be able to employ virtual imaging to interpolate missing data.
PICARD: Is something wrong, Commander?
DATA: My apologies. It seems my primary speech processors are experiencing a minor fluctuation. I will have it corrected in a moment.

[Bridge]
TROI: Captain, may I speak with you a moment in private?
PICARD: Of course. You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Mister Data, deploy sensor scans when you're ready. Ensign, take us to a synchronous orbit aligned around our crash site.
RO: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sir, given the EM field properties of this moon, I recommend a search pattern beginning in the southern polar region.
RIKER: The polar region? That would be starting from scratch, Mister Data. Our latest readings would suggest that we begin our scan around our crash site.
DATA: The Essex signal was never clearly located, sir. A systematic survey of the moon from a polar orbit might be more practical.
RIKER: Well, you might be right, but I'd like to give the crash site a once over first. Maintain our current orbit.
DATA: Understood, sir.

[Ready room]
TROI: I've never felt anything like it. It was as though they were calling to me.
PICARD: Are you saying someone was communicating telepathically?
TROI: Perhaps, for an instant. It was like their voices were being carried on the wind.
PICARD: What were they trying to communicate?
TROI: I'm not sure, but they were calling me to the southern polar region. I believe that's where we should look for the Essex.

[Bridge]
RO: Commander, did you override my orbital heading?
RIKER: Override them?
RO: We've moved into a polar orbit and I'm locked out. The helm isn't responding.
RIKER: Do you know anything about this, Mister Data? Data?
RIKER: Security to the Bridge!
RIKER: Computer, transfer command to Engineering. Full security alert!
O'BRIEN: This way!
TROI: What happened?
DATA: He would not move to a polar orbit.
TROI: You couldn't wait? The Captain would have done it for me.

[Turbolift]
O'BRIEN: Deck thirty six. Engineering.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Computer, re-enable Bridge control. Security protocol, Riker omega Three.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: Data, O'Brien and Troi tried to commandeer the ship.
WORF: They're in turbolift four. Engaging override controls now.

[Turbolift]
DATA: They've trapped us.
TROI: What deck is this?
O'BRIEN: We're on deck ten.
TROI: Can you move us again?
O'BRIEN: I know how to override the bridge command.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Activate security fields decks eight through fifteen.
WORF: Sir, the turbolift is moving again. They're still inside.
PICARD: Initiate emergency bulkheads in turboshaft four.
WORF: Aye, sir. They have been stopped at deck thirteen.
PICARD: Mister Worf.

[Deck 10 Corridor]
TROI: Do you know how to deactivate this?
O'BRIEN: The computer will not allow us to override an emergency forcefield command.
DATA: My entity's artificial substructure may be useful.

[Bridge]
RIKER: They've broken through a security field, deck ten, section two.
PICARD: Security to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
KEIKO: Shh. Momma's here. Shh.
TROI: Everyone get down on the floor.
KEIKO: Miles?
O'BRIEN: On the floor!
WORF: Everyone down, now!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Multiple phaser shots, Ten Forward.
PICARD: Picard to Worf. Report.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister Worf acknowledge. Can you hear me, Mister Worf?
TROI: Yes, Bridge. He can hear you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Following an aborted attempt to take control of the Bridge, Counselor Troi, Mister Data, and Chief O'Brien have seized Ten Forward.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Position security teams at both entrances.
RO: Yes sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, shut down all computer access to Ten Forward.
LAFORGE: I can't, Captain. They've already set up a remote security lock out. We'd have to shut down all computer function in the saucer section.
RIKER: Transporter room three, can you get a pattern lock on Commander Data, Counselor Troi

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): And Chief O'Brien in Ten Forward?
CREWMAN: Attempting to lock on, sir.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: You were correct. They're attempting to engage their transporters. But I know how to shut them down.
DATA: Do it.

[Transporter room]
CREWMAN: Bridge, the entire transporter array has been taken off line and placed into diagnostic mode.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN (voiceover): I can't override. It'll take a couple of hours to complete the cycle.
PICARD: How many people are down there?
RO: Seventeen. They just shut down the internal scanners too, Captain.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher to the Bridge.
CRUSHER (voiceover): On my way.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: What are you doing now?
DATA: I can reverse the polarity of their forcefields to isolate this room.
TROI: Good.
O'BRIEN: Their communicators. Now they will learn nothing but what we tell them.

[Bridge]
RO: They've done something to the forcefields on deck ten, section one.
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: I don't recognize the configurations, but they've completely isolated Ten Forward.
RIKER: What about flooding their air vents with anaesthezine gas?
LAFORGE: That won't affect Data. No rescue plan will work unless we can knock out all three of them.
RIKER: A concussive charge would blow out the security fields. We could go in with phasers on wide beam, stun everybody. Sort it out later.
PICARD: Doctor, go back to the biofilter readouts taken of the away team's transport from the moon's surface. See if you can come up with any clue that might explain this.
PICARD: Ten Forward, this is Captain Picard. I am prepared to discuss this situation. There is no need for further violence.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD (voiceover): Please identify yourselves.
TROI: They will now attempt to negotiate for the safety and release of their people. Interesting. Under normal circumstances, I would be counseling the Captain at a time like this.
O'BRIEN: And what would you tell him to do?
TROI: I would help him find a way to secure our trust.
DATA: What are you looking at? You, Klingon. Attack me. Are you afraid?
WORF: I have no fear of death.
DATA: And I have no fear of killing you.
TROI: Stop it!
PICARD (voiceover): Please respond, Ten Forward. Are there any members of my crew who require medical assistance?
TROI: We can discuss your wounded, but first you will move the ship.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Move it where?
TROI (voiceover): You will

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Change the ship's orbit to an inclination of eighty degrees south.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The southern polar region. That's where Data tried to move the ship.
PICARD: And that's what Troi asked me to do. But why? Ten Forward, if you could be more specific about our intended destination

[Tem Forward]
PICARD (voiceover): Perhaps we could
TROI (voiceover): You have thirty seconds to change your heading or additional members of your crew will require medical attention.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We need to stabilize this situation. Play for time. I suggest we move the ship as they've asked. Agreed? Set a new heading, but take us there as slowly as you can. Ten Forward, we are moving the ship as you requested.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: He's telling the truth. Their heading has changed.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Captain, I've compared the away team's last transporter trace patterns to their earlier records. They're exactly the same, except in Troi, Data and O'Brien there's an unusual synaptic activity. Some kind of anionic energy. It may be another lifeform superimposing its neural patterns on our people.
RIKER: Why wasn't I affected?
CRUSHER: I don't know. The only difference between you and the others was that you were injured.
RIKER: My broken arm.
CRUSHER: The fracture caused pain receptors to fire, which may have made you immune to this energy.
PICARD: If your theory is accurate, Doctor, what would happen if we were to inflict pain on the others?
CRUSHER: It might force whatever it is out of our people.
RO: A plasma shock. It would be painful but it wouldn't cause any physical harm.
LAFORGE: I could hook up a modified laser scanner to a plasma inverter.
RIKER: What about Data?
LAFORGE: Well, a plasma shock would definitely overload his neural net. It'll work on him too.
RIKER: We have to find a way to penetrate the forcefield around Ten Forward.
LAFORGE: I might be able to interrupt the forcefield for a few seconds, but I'll be fighting the computer for control. Timing would be critical.
RO: We'd have to hit all three with a single discharge. If they're standing together, it shouldn't be a problem.
PICARD: How will you gain access?
LAFORGE: A micro-optic drill through the ceiling. They'll never detect it.
CRUSHER: If this is going to work, we have to have some way to contain or neutralize this anionic energy once it's out of our people.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. That will be your top priority. Very well, proceed. Bridge to Ten Forward. Now that we are moving the ship as you requested, I would like to know the nature of the injuries to the members of my crew.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Five of your people have been injured.
PICARD (voiceover): How serious is their condition?
TROI: You, Klingon, tell him.
WORF: Captain, one person has suffered what looks like a level-five phaser hit, and four others have secondary burns. They require medical attention. And our captors are not affected by phaser stun settings.
DATA: Silence, Klingon.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ten Forward, you must release these people so that they can receive proper medical attention.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: I will release no one.

[Bridge]
PICARD: If you will release them, I will take their place.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: I don't trust him. It may be a deception.
TROI: The crew values Picard's life above all others. Captain Picard, we agree to your proposal.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Expect a medical team to accompany me.
TROI (voiceover): Acknowledged.
PICARD: Sickbay, this is Picard. Have an emergency medical team meet me outside Ten Forward.
RIKER: Sir, putting you down there only strengthens their position.
PICARD: Number One, so long as they're on board this ship, I'm a hostage no matter where I am. We all are. I must find out who we're dealing with. If La Forge and Ro can attempt a rescue in short order, then let them proceed. If they can't, I will provide you with another opportunity. Watch for it.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Silence that child!
O'BRIEN: I know you. I know who you are. And I know who this is.
KEIKO: She's frightened. Why don't you just let us go?
O'BRIEN: No. Make it stop.
PICARD (voiceover): Ten Forward, we're outside the door.
TROI: Lower the force field.
TROI: Welcome, Captain. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Captain Bryce Shumar, of the Federation Starship Essex.
PICARD: The Starship Essex vanished over two hundred years ago.
TROI: Indeed. I know, I was there. This is my First Officer Commander Steven Mullen, and my Security Chief, Lieutenant Morgan Kelly.
PICARD: And you have survived all this time as?
TROI: Spirits? Ghosts? But you're a man who would never believe in ghosts, Picard. Isn't that true? You see, Troi knows you. And so I do as well.
PICARD: Then Counselor Troi is still alive?
TROI: Yes, of course she is. I have no wish to harm her or to harm anyone else.
PICARD: I'm very pleased to hear that.
TROI: We have been forced to take this action, Captain, because we need your help.
PICARD: My help?
TROI: Our consciousness has been trapped on this moon for two centuries. We must escape this torture.
PICARD: How did this happen to you?
TROI: I can't explain how it happened. I only know that it did. The Essex was caught in an electromagnetic storm just as your shuttle was. Moments before we crashed, the bridge was struck by lightning. The ship was ripped apart. Somehow, in that instant, our consciousness was absorbed in the magnetic currents on the surface.
PICARD: Why didn't you tell us this? Why the deception? The violence?
TROI: Because as I said, I knew you would not believe us. Even now, I know you don't.
PICARD: What was your vessel's designation and its complement?
TROI: NCC One seven three. Daedalus-class starship. Crew, two hundred and twenty nine.
PICARD: Under whose command in this sector?
TROI: Admiral Uttan Narsu, Starbase Twelve. You will find all this in Starfleet records.
PICARD: I don't need to see the records.
TROI: Then you know I am correct.
PICARD: End this, and I will give you whatever help you need.
TROI: No. You don't trust us. And I can't risk trusting you.
DATA: It is taking too long. We should have been there by now. He is manipulating you.
TROI: Captain Picard has every right to be curious.
DATA: He will try to delay until a rescue attempt is possible.
TROI: I know that. I also know that he will make every effort to protect the lives of his people. Since our demands are not excessive, Captain, I hope you will see that it will be simpler to accede than to risk further injuries.
PICARD: What do you want?
TROI: All you need to know for now is that we want to rest. Simply, finally, to rest.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Section two B, A, section one.
RO: Finally. I never want to see this part of the Enterprise again.
LAFORGE: I hear you. This is what starship designers call easy access. Yeah, yeah, this is it. I thought we might have a problem with conduit number two twenty seven but it looks like we're going to be able to get by it.
RO: Thanks.
RO: We're through.
LAFORGE: Good. Let's hook up the scanner and see what we've got.
RO: Got it. All three have got to be in the circle if this is going to work.
LAFORGE: We're halfway home. La Forge to Crusher. How're you doing?
CRUSHER (voiceover): I think I've come up with an idea for a containment field.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: This anionic energy seems to be vulnerable to the same magnetic flux density we monitored in the storms. If we can duplicate it, we can trap it

[Jefferies tube]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Once it's out of our people.
LAFORGE: You should be able to do that by flooding Ten Forward with ionogenic particles.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Exactly what I was thinking.
RIKER (voiceover): Geordi, how long will it take to get it all ready?
LAFORGE: We still have to calibrate the plasma inverter, Commander. My guess is forty five minutes to an hour.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I can have the containment field ready by then.
RIKER: Keep me advised.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Impressions, Mister Worf?
WORF: Spiritual possessions of this sort have been reported throughout Klingon history. It is called jat'yIn, the taking of the living by the dead.
PICARD: Human history is full of many similar legends.
WORF: Then you believe they may be telling the truth?
PICARD: Not for one moment.
WORF: Sir, they know much about the Essex. If it is the spirit of Captain Shumar.
PICARD: Then he should be behaving very much better, don't you think? A Starfleet Captain.
O'BRIEN: You two, sit down.
WORF: After living disembodied for two centuries, perhaps they've gone mad.
PICARD: I assure you, Mister Worf, these are not jat'yIn. Our job is to find out exactly what they are and then to determine how to deal with them.
DATA: Right, That's enough. Sit down, both of you. You over there, you there. Down.
O'BRIEN: I gave you that. In a place called McKinley Park. Green grass. Tall trees.
KEIKO: Please don't.
O'BRIEN: I hid the bracelet in your pocket. You were surprised.
KEIKO: Don't.
O'BRIEN: You said, Miles, you make me feel so happy.
KEIKO: No! Get away! Get away from me.
TROI: Leave her alone.
PICARD: Captain Shumar. We'll be approaching the southern polar region that you requested in a few minutes. I need to give additional instructions.
TROI: Very well. We're taking you to our crash site.
PICARD: The southern pole?
TROI: That is correct.
PICARD: Nothing our sensors were able to detect indicated that the Essex went down in that region.
TROI: As I told you, Captain, the ship broke up in the atmosphere, and the bridge went down here. When we reach it, you will beam what's left of our skeletal remains on board this ship and then take them back to Earth for a proper burial. You see how simple a request this is?
PICARD: Captain, if you will let these people go, I'll order the Bridge to follow your instructions.
TROI: I will release no one.
PICARD: If you are who you say you are, there's no need for any of this. We'll gladly take you home.
TROI: I wish you were truly as open-minded as you say, Picard.
PICARD: If you don't release the hostages, I won't cooperate.
DATA: You will cooperate, Captain. You will cooperate or someone will die. Who shall it be? How about the Klingon? Get another one.
O'BRIEN: You.
O'BRIEN: Come on. Come on, come on.
DATA: Pick one to die, Captain, or I kill them both.

[Jefferies tube]
RO: They're all in range. I have to do it now.
LAFORGE: I'm only going to be able to shut down the forcefield for about seven seconds before the computer compensates.
RO: Well, if they're the right seven seconds, it'll be enough.
LAFORGE: Bridge,

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Prepare to release the ionogenic field on my signal.
RIKER: Standing by.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Ready?
RO: Lower the forcefield.
LAFORGE: Forcefield down.
RO: Firing plasma charge.

[Jefferies tube]
RO: Damn!

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Tell them to stop, or I kill everyone in this room, starting with you.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge, abort immediately.

[Bridge]
RIKER: As you say, Captain. Riker to La Forge, return to the Bridge.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Are you ready to cooperate?
PICARD: Yes. First officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has moved into a synchronous orbit near the southern polar region. We await further instructions from Ten Forward.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any sign of the Essex?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander. Electromagnetic disturbances are even worse here. Scanners can't read a thing.
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Intense storm activity over the southern pole is making it virtually impossible for us to pick up any trace of the Essex.
TROI: We are giving you the exact coordinates of our remains on board the wreck of the Essex.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I'm receiving the coordinates now.
RIKER: Can you tell what's there?
LAFORGE: Just your basic ionic cyclone. I can't read a thing.
RIKER: I'm sure as hell not going to beam up whatever might be down there.
LAFORGE: I've got a good excuse for you. The transporters aren't going to work any better than the scanners.
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER (voiceover): Whatever's blocking our scanners will prevent the use of the transporters.
O'BRIEN: They're lying.
PICARD: On the contrary, we've had a difficult time with transporters since we arrived here. That's why we had to send down the shuttle. You should all have been aware of that fact.
DATA: We must be able to use the transporters.
PICARD: Mister O'Brien was the one who safely executed the return of the away team. He's the most qualified person on board to operate the transporters under these circumstances.
TROI: Can you do it from here?
O'BRIEN: No. I'd have to use a transporter pad.
PICARD: I could give you safe passage to a transporter pad in one of the cargo bays.
DATA: It's a trick. He is trying to divide us.
TROI: We must not be separated.
PICARD: I can give you all safe passage.
DATA: Why are you suddenly being so helpful?
PICARD: Because I assume that if you choose go to the cargo bay, then you won't to take all of the hostages. Their safety is my chief priority.
TROI: What are the risks when we leave this room?
DATA: Without the protection of the forcefields, we are completely vulnerable.
O'BRIEN: They could use the transporter against us. Once the forcefield is down, they could beam us back to the surface. But there is a way to neutralize that threat. Bridge, transfer all transporter functions to Ten Forward.
RIKER (voiceover): In order to do that

[Bridge]
RIKER: You will have to release your computer control lockouts.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: That's not true.
PICARD: Let me talk to him. Number One, I think we have an opportunity to end this siege.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): It will require the cooperation of all concerned.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Our guests will be moving shortly to cargo bay four, where the transport will occur. I want you to ensure them of safe passage between Ten Forward to the cargo bay.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Understood, Captain. Doctor. Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Transporter controls are being transferred. Ten Forward to Bridge. I said all transporter controls. Including those aboard all your shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Almost had them, Ensign. Nice try. Ten Forward. Our mistake. Remaining transporter functions are being transferred to you.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Once we create our own access code, we can prevent anyone using the transporter against us. We can go to the cargo bay.
DATA: What about the weapons?
TROI: We will each take a hostage for protection.
DATA: Klingon.
TROI: Picard, you are mine.
KEIKO: Please, let her stay.
TROI: Lower the forcefield.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Security teams, stand by.
RO: They're heading through section five.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister La Forge, Doctor, they'll be at their destination in less than a minute.
RO: They've stopped at deck eighteen, sir.
RIKER: Security, allow them access into cargo bay four.
SECURITY (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: I will require assistance.
PICARD: Captain Shumar, how do you intend to achieve this rest that you so desire?
TROI: What do you mean?
PICARD: Well, how do you intend to free yourselves of this existence that has so trapped your consciousness?
TROI: It will fade as we move further from this planet.
PICARD: Really? What is your scientific basis for that?
TROI: I don't need a scientific basis. Just be quiet.
PICARD: Captain Shumar, when are you going to tell me who you really are?
O'BRIEN: I've initialized the transporter signal.
TROI: Proceed.

[Bridge]
RO: They're powering up the transporter, Commander.
RIKER: Mister LaForge.
LAFORGE: I've isolated cargo bay four with a neutrino field, sir, but it'll only take Data and O'Brien a couple of minutes to override it, once they discover that it's there.
RIKER: I hope that'll give the Captain enough time to play his hand.
RO: Do you know what he's going to do?
RIKER: There's only one reason he chose cargo bay four. If it becomes necessary, Ensign, you will blow the cargo bay hatch on my orders.
RO: Yes, sir.

[Cargo bay]
TROI: You're quite right, Picard, it's not rest we seek. Only escape.
PICARD: Escape?
TROI: We were brought to this moon over five centuries ago from a star system called Ux-Mal. We were separated from our bodies and left to drift in the storms. Once we almost escaped, on board the Essex, but that ship was incapable of eluding this moon's electromagnetic storms.
PICARD: Did you really think using their identities would gain our sympathy?
TROI: It was a better approach than asking you to allow hundreds of condemned prisoners on board.
PICARD: Then this moon is a penal colony.
TROI: That's correct. But now we have your ship and your bodies to carry us home.

[Bridge]
RO: I'm reading dozens of them. Hundreds.
CRUSHER: They have the same anionic signature we saw on the biofilter scans.
RIKER: I think we can give the Captain a new bargaining chip. Doctor Crusher, flood the cargo bay with your containment field.

[Cargo bay]
TROI: No! Let them go or you will all die.
PICARD: Your threats are meaningless now.
O'BRIEN: We are still in control of these three bodies. We will not let them go.
PICARD: Are you prepared to sacrifice the lives of the others? They'll all die when the cargo bay hatch is blown.
DATA: You will die too, Picard.
KEIKO: I would die to save the life of my child.
WORF: To die defending one's ship is the hope of every Klingon.
PICARD: If you each know the officers you inhabit, then you know they're equally ready to give their lives for this ship. Free them now and I will return you to the moon's surface.
TROI: I advise you, Picard, not to pass our way again.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Our guests will be leaving shortly. I need an emergency medical team down here.
CRUSHER (voiceover): On our way, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare to transport these prisoners back down to the moon's surface.
WORF: Gladly, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45572.1. Doctor Crusher has examined Troi, Data and O'Brien. There seem to be no residual effects from their experience.

[Corridor]
TROI: It was as though my own consciousness were pushed to the side. I was watching everything happen, hearing my own voice, but not being able to control any of it.
PICARD: What about the entity that controlled you, What were your perceptions of him?
TROI: He was intelligent, actually. Thoughtful, in a ruthless sort of way. Cold.
DATA: Lieutenant, I must apologize for my inadvertent misconduct toward you.
WORF: No apology necessary.
DATA: Your restraint was most remarkable.
WORF: You have no idea.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: How do you feel?
O'BRIEN: Hungry.
CRUSHER: That's a good sign. Go home.
O'BRIEN: How do you feel?
KEIKO: I'm just glad to have you back.
O'BRIEN: If I could've killed that thing inside me, I would have.
KEIKO: I know. We both know.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: No question about it. She was bluffing, Worf.
WORF: Bluffing is not one of Counselor Troi's strong suits.
LAFORGE: I'm still reading some chlorinide leakage, but I can't pin it down.
LAFORGE: Maybe up here.
WORF: It would have been unwise to call. Yes. My hand was not strong enough.
LAFORGE: You had jacks and eights, she bluffed you with a pair of sixes.
WORF: How did you know what I had?
LAFORGE: Let's just say I had a special insight into the cards. Maybe next time you should bring a deck that's not transparent to infrared light. Not to worry, Worf. I only peek after the hand is over. Still nothing. I'll get a dynoscan. We'll try again.
CREWMAN: Commander, is that what you wanted?
LAFORGE: Yes. If anything changes, you let me know. Ensign, run a dynoscan.
CREWWOMAN: Look out!
LAFORGE: Worf!
CREWMAN: Commander, what happened?
LAFORGE: La Forge to Sickbay! Medical emergency in cargo bay three!

[Sickbay]
WORF: What happened?
CRUSHER: The containers you were checking fell on you. You're lucky to be alive.
WORF: Doctor, I will not attempt to leave Sickbay without your approval. The restraining field is not necessary.
CRUSHER: Worf, there is no restraining field.
WORF: But I can't move my legs.
CRUSHER: I know. You can't move because one of the containers shattered seven of your vertebrae and crushed your spinal cord. I'm afraid there's no way we can repair this kind of injury.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45587.3. Lieutenant Worf has been removed from active duty following a severe injury. Although a neuro-specialist has arrived, Doctor Crusher believes his paralysis may be permanent.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor Russell. I'm Beverly Crusher.
RUSSELL: A pleasure. I have some equipment aboard the Potemkin. Would you please have it sent to one of your medical labs.
CRUSHER: Of course. Send it to medlab four.
CREWMAN: Yes, Doctor.
RUSSELL: Before we get down to business, I just wanted to say that I had the pleasure of reading your paper on cybernetic regeneration recently.
CRUSHER: Really? You're the first person to mention it.
RUSSELL: I thought it was brilliant.

[Corridor]
RUSSELL: Your ideas on bio-active interfaces border on revolutionary. It's going to be a genuine pleasure working with you.
CRUSHER: Thank you. Have you had a chance to review Worf's case history yet?
RUSSELL: Only briefly. I must admit, I was a little shocked to find the state of Klingon neurological medicine to be so primitive.
CRUSHER: It's a cultural bias. When I contacted the Klingon Medical Division, they informed me that they usually let the patient die in a case like this. As a result they've done almost no research on neurological trauma.
RUSSELL: We'll be in uncharted waters.
CRUSHER: Worf is having a hard time dealing with his injuries. He's always been a difficult patient, but now. He's a little tough at first, but I'm sure you'll get to like him after you get to
RUSSELL: Doctor, I know that as a starship doctor, you have to maintain close ties with patients, but I think it would be best if I maintain a discreet distance. That way, I can give you a completely objective opinion regarding treatment.
CRUSHER: Yes. You're probably right.
RUSSELL: Good. Well, I believe you said I'll be working in medlab four?
CRUSHER: Right. This way.

[Worf's private room]
RIKER: You look pretty good for someone who's been eating sickbay food for three days.
WORF: Please, sit down, Commander. Thank you for agreeing to see me in this condition.
RIKER: I'm not a Klingon. I don't think there's any shame in someone being injured.
WORF: I am not merely injured, Commander. Doctor Crusher believes my paralysis to be permanent.
RIKER: I'm sorry.
WORF: I have a personal favor to ask.
RIKER: Name it.
WORF: I want you to assist me in performing the Hegh'bat ceremony. I want you to help me die.
RIKER: What?
WORF: When a Klingon can no longer stand and face his enemies as a warrior, when he becomes a burden to his friends and family, it is time for the Hegh'bat. Time for him to die.
RIKER: There must be other options.
WORF: No, there are not. I will not live as an object of pity or shame. My life as a Klingon is over.
RIKER: Mister Worf, I will not help a friend commit suicide.
WORF: You and I have served together for many years. Fought side by side I know you to be a brave and honorable man. If you truly consider me a friend, help me now. Help me end my life as I have lived it, with dignity and honor. Please.

[Medical lab]
CRUSHER: The cortical spinal tract has continued to deteriorate over the last seventy two hours despite CPK enzymatic therapy.
RUSSELL: What about alkysine treatment?
CRUSHER: Ineffective.
RUSSELL: Overdesigned. Klingon anatomy. Twenty three ribs, two livers, eight-chambered heart, double-lined neural pia mater. I've never seen so many unnecessary redundancies in one body.
CRUSHER: Unnecessary? The Klingons refer to it as the brak'lul. Almost every vital function in their bodies has a built-in redundancy in case any primary organ or system fails.
RUSSELL: It's a good design in theory, but in practice, all the extra organs means just that much more can go wrong. Let me show you something. I've been experimenting with DNA based generators. This is a genetronic replicator. It reads the DNA coding of damaged organs, translates that into a specific set of replicant instructions and then begins to grow a replacement.
CRUSHER: I've read of some of the preliminary work you've done.
RUSSELL: The early results have been very encouraging. Beverly, the genetronic replicator can create a completely new neural conduit for your Lieutenant Worf.
CRUSHER: Replace his entire spinal column?
RUSSELL: Exactly. Instead of splicing and pasting together broken connections like a couple of glorified tailors, we create a new living system.
CRUSHER: I had no idea you were already using this on humanoids.
RUSSELL: I haven't been. This'll be the first time.
CRUSHER: First time?
RUSSELL: I've done dozens of holosimulations. The success rate is up to thirty seven percent.
CRUSHER: Even a holographic patient would balk at those odds.
RUSSELL: Sooner or later, it has to be tried on a living patient.
CRUSHER: You're talking about a spinal column. Even before we could replace it, we have to remove the existing one, and we don't know enough about Klingon neurological medicine to re-attach it. If something goes wrong, he'll die. I agree it has remarkable potential, but you're still in the most preliminary stages of research. No, I'm afraid I can't justify the risk to Worf. We'll have to do with more conventional approaches.
RUSSELL: You're probably right. It's too radical an approach.
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge.
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Doctor, the transport ship Denver has struck a gravitic mine left over from the Cardassian war. They've sustained heavy damage.
RIKER: Their last message said they were attempting to crash land on one of the planets in the Mericor system. We should arrive in just under seven hours.
CRUSHER: How many people were aboard?
DATA: The Denver's standard crew complement is twenty three, but they were transporting five hundred seventeen colonists to the Beloti sector.
CRUSHER: I'll need to convert all three shuttlebays to emergency triage centers. I also want all civilians with medical training to report for duty.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you in private?
PICARD: Of course, Number One. You have the Bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I have always tried to keep an open mind, not to judge someone else's culture by my own, but for me to be a part of this ceremony.
PICARD: I understand from Doctor Crusher that Worf will never regain the use of his legs.
RIKER: That doesn't mean his life is over.
PICARD: That's a very human perspective, Will. For a Klingon in Worf's position, his life is over.
RIKER: I can't accept that.
PICARD: Will, if you were dying, if you were terminally ill with an incurable disease and facing the remaining few days of your life in pain, wouldn't you come to look on death as a release?
RIKER: Worf isn't dying and he is not in pain. He could live a long life
PICARD: You or I could learn to live with that disability, but not Worf. His life ended when those containers fell on him. We don't have to agree with it, we don't have to understand it, but we do have to respect his beliefs.
RIKER: I can respect his beliefs, but he is asking me to take an active role in his committing suicide.
PICARD: He's asking for your help because you're his friend. That means that you're going to have to make your decision based on that friendship.
RIKER: Which leaves me back where I started.
PICARD: Will. Look, I'm sorry, I cannot help you to make this decision, but I can tell you this. Klingons choose their friends with great care. If he didn't know he could count on you, he never would have asked.

[Troi's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Why won't you let me see him?
TROI: Alexander, I told you it's not my decision. Your father doesn't want to
ALEXANDER: I don't believe you. My father wants to see me. You're the one keeping me away from him!
TROI: I think you know that's not true.
ALEXANDER: Then why can't I see him?
TROI: Come here. He's been injured, and he's embarrassed. And to have anyone see him now would make him feel worse, even if it were you.
ALEXANDER: This is part of that Klingon stuff, isn't it. My mother always said that Klingons had a lot of dumb ideas about honor.
TROI: Alexander, that Klingon stuff is very important to your father.
ALEXANDER: Well, it isn't very important to me. I don't care about being Klingon, I just want to see my father.
TROI: It's been a long day. Why don't you get ready for bed and we'll talk about this again in the morning.

[Worf's private room]
TROI: Alexander is scared, confused, hurt, all because his father is refusing to see him.
WORF: You know why I left those instructions.
TROI: Yes I do. It's not the Klingon way, right?
WORF: It is a question of honor, and I would ask you that you respect my wishes in this matter, Counselor.
TROI: All I care about at this moment is a little boy who's terrified he's going to lose his father.
TROI: Maybe it's time you stopped lying here worrying about your honor, and started thinking about someone else, like your son.
CRUSHER: Would you like us to come back later?
WORF: No. Please come in, Doctor.
CRUSHER: This is Doctor Toby Russell. She's from the Adelman Neurological Institute. She specializes in spinal injuries like yours. We've discussed a variety of surgical procedures. I'm afraid none of them will repair the spinal cord, but we have found a way for you to regain much of your mobility. We can implant a series of neural transducers in your lower torso and legs. They're designed to pick up the electrical impulses from your brain and stimulate the corresponding muscles. With a little work, you can eventually regain sixty to seventy percent of your motor control.
RUSSELL: The first step would be to fit your legs with motor assist units like this one. They're a training device. Once you've mastered using them, we can move on to the implants.
RUSSELL: Now try to move your leg.
CRUSHER: No, no, that's good for a first try. It will take some time before you get used to manipulating the
WORF: No! I will not live like that.
CRUSHER: These are very sophisticated devices. With enough time, they will give you
WORF: Sixty percent of my mobility. No, I will not be seen lurching through corridors like some half-Klingon machine, the object of ridicule and disgust.
CRUSHER: Perhaps this all seems a bit frightening to you know. I want you to take some time before making a decision. Think about it.
RUSSELL: There is one other option I'd like you to consider. It's called genetronic replication. It's still in the experimental stage, but if it works, it will restore virtually all of your mobility and without the need for artificial implants.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I thought we had discussed genetronics.
RUSSELL: We did.
CRUSHER: I also thought we'd decided against recommending it.
RUSSELL: You heard him. He'd rather die than live with the implants. I just gave him a better option than suicide.
CRUSHER: He's grasping for straws and you're giving him one. Now instead of dealing with his paralysis, he's going to be thinking about this miracle cure of yours.
RUSSELL: There's a real chance this could work. And if it does, it'll be a major breakthrough in neurogenetics that will change a lot of people's lives.
CRUSHER: You're using the desperation of an injured man as an excuse to try a procedure that you couldn't do under normal circumstances. I checked with Starfleet Medical. They have turned down your request to test genetronics on humanoids three times already.
RUSSELL: Are you really going to hide behind the rules of some bureaucracy? Beverly, your patient's life is at stake here.
CRUSHER: Look, before you do any of this
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We've located the survivors from the Denver.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We're ready down here. We have triage teams standing by.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. We'll begin transporting the survivors on board immediately. Bridge out.

[Sickbay]
RUSSELL: Beverly, could you use an extra pair of hands?
CRUSHER: Absolutely.

[Worf's private room]
ALEXANDER: Father?
WORF: Come in, Alexander.
ALEXANDER: Deanna said you hurt your back, that you couldn't walk.
WORF: I am still struggling with my injury.
ALEXANDER: I was worried about you.
WORF: There is much to discuss. There will be difficult times ahead. You must be strong.
ALEXANDER: I understand.
WORF: Good. As Klingons, we must always be prepared for any
ALEXANDER: Father!
WORF: Take him away.
TROI: Worf, let me help you.
WORF: Leave!
TROI: Alexander, go on. It'll be all right. I'll take care of your father.

[Shuttlebay]
CRUSHER: Use this to cauterize the tissue.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: What happened here?
RUSSELL: He went into neural metaphasic shock.
CRUSHER: From leporazine? That's unusual.
RUSSELL: He couldn't take leporazine, his blood pressure was too low. I had to try a different treatment.
CRUSHER: A morathial series?
RUSSELL: No. I tried a new rybo-therapy I've been working with. It's called borathium. I've had some very good results.
CRUSHER: You used this man to test one of your theories?
RUSSELL: Borathium is decades ahead of leporazine and morathial.
CRUSHER: Morathial would have saved his life.
RUSSELL: His injuries were so severe I don't think any conventional treatment could've saved him.
CRUSHER: The point is, you didn't even try standard treatments.
RUSSELL: I made the choice I thought gave him the best chance of surviving. Isn't that what you would have done?
CRUSHER: I think you used this situation in order to test one of your theories just like you're trying to do with Worf.
RUSSELL: That's what this is really about, isn't it? Lieutenant Worf. I'm offering him a chance to recover fully. A chance you can't give him.
CRUSHER: What this is about is the kind of medicine you seem to practice.
RUSSELL: I make no excuses for my approach to medicine. I don't like losing a patient any more than you do. But I'm looking down a long road, Doctor. This man didn't die for nothing. The data that I gathered is invaluable. It will eventually help save thousands of lives.
CRUSHER: I doubt if that will be any comfort his family.
RUSSELL: Let me ask you this. If some years from now, borathium therapy were to save the life of someone you loved, would you still condemn me?
CRUSHER: I will not be drawn into a hypothetical argument, Doctor. Your research on this ship is over. You're relieved of all medical duties until further notice. Is that clear?
RUSSELL: Perfectly.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: Doctor? I'm on my way to look in on your patient.
CRUSHER: Be my guest. Just don't expect a lot of conversation. He's in full Klingon mode. Honorable, strong and closed minded.
PICARD: I understand that you've relieved Doctor Russell of duty.
CRUSHER: That's right. She's irresponsible. I won't have her practicing medicine on this ship.
PICARD: Beverly, maybe you should consider letting her go ahead with this genetronic procedure.
CRUSHER: How can you say that? She has a theory, based on a little empirical knowledge and a lot of supposition.
PICARD: If he can't make a full recovery, Worf will to kill himself.
CRUSHER: Not in my Sickbay, he won't. I'll put him in a restraining field and post security around his door before I let him commit suicide.
PICARD: And how long will you keep him there? A week? A month? A year?
CRUSHER: If I have to. Suicide is not an option. Putting aside for a moment the fact that a paraplegic can live a very full life, there is also a conventional therapy that could restore much of his mobility.
PICARD: But not all of it.
CRUSHER: No, not all of it! There are some things I can't fix. Klingon or no, he is going to have to accept his condition.
PICARD: Beverly, he can't make the journey you're asking of him. You want him to go from contemplating suicide to accepting his condition and living with the disability, but it's too far. The road between covers a lifetime of values, beliefs. He can't do it, Beverly. But perhaps he can come part of the way. Maybe he can be persuaded to forgo the ritual in order to take the chance at regaining the kind of life he needs. A Klingon may not be good at accepting defeat, but he knows all about taking risks.
CRUSHER: The first tenet of good medicine is never make the patient any worse. Right now, Worf is alive and functioning. If he goes into that operation, he could come out a corpse.
PICARD: This may not be good medicine, but for Worf, it may be his only choice.

[Worf's private room]
WORF: I am ready, Commander.
RIKER: I've been studying this ritual of yours. Do you know what I've decided? I think it's despicable. I hate everything about it. The casual disregard for life, the way it tries to cloak suicide in some glorious notion of honor. I may have to respect your beliefs, but I don't have to like them.
WORF: It is not something I expect you to understand.
RIKER: No. All you really expect me to do is bring you the knife and then walk away, so you can kill yourself in peace. Well, I'm not going to make it that easy for you.
WORF: It is not easy for me. But each of us must die in our own time, and my time
RIKER: Remember Sandoval? Hit by a disruptor blast two years ago. She lived for about a week. Fang-lee? Marla Aster? Tasha Yar? How many men and women, how many friends have we watched die? I've lost count. Every one of them, every single one fought for life until the very end.
WORF: I do not welcome death, Commander.
RIKER: Are you sure? Because I get the sense you're feeling pretty noble about the whole thing. Look at me, aren't I courageous? Aren't I an honorable Klingon? Let me remind you of something. A Klingon does not put his desires above those of his family or his friends. How many people on this ship consider you a friend? How many owe you their lives? Have you ever thought about how you've affected the people around you? How we might feel about your dying?
WORF: Will you, or will you not, help me with the Hegh'bat?
RIKER: You are my friend, and in spite of everything I've said, if it were my place, I would probably help you. But I've been studying Klingon ritual and Klingon law, and I've discovered that it's not my place to fill that role. According to tradition, that honor falls to a family member. Preferably the oldest son.
WORF: That is impossible. He is a child.
RIKER: The son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade. True?
WORF: Alexander is not fully Klingon he is part human.
RIKER: That's an excuse. What you really mean is it would be too hard for you to look at your son and tell him to bring you the knife. Watch you stab it into your heart, then pull the knife from your chest and wipe your blood on his sleeve. That's the rite of death, isn't it? Well, I'm sorry, Mister Worf. I can't help you. There's only one person on this ship who can.
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted to see me?
WORF: I need you to help me.
ALEXANDER: Anything, Father.
WORF: I have taught you about Klingon customs, the beliefs which we value. According to tradition, I must take my life after suffering this kind of injury. But I have decided to break with tradition. I have decided to live.
ALEXANDER: I'm glad, Father.
WORF: I must still undergo a dangerous operation. I may still die, but it will not be by my own hand. Return this to our quarters.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. After further consultation with Starfleet Medical, and a great deal of soul searching, I have reluctantly granted Lieutenant Worf's request to undergo the genetronic procedure.

[Worf's private room]
ALEXANDER: We started doing multiplications today. The teacher said I'm faster than anybody else in my class.
WORF: We will speak again soon.
ALEXANDER: Yes, Father.
WORF: If I die, he must be cared for.
TROI: I'll make sure he reaches your parents' home safely.
WORF: No. They are elderly. They cannot care for Alexander. Counselor, I have a serious request to make of you. Would you consider?
TROI: You want me to raise Alexander?
WORF: I have come to have a great respect for you, Deanna. You have been most helpful in guiding me since Alexander's arrival. I can't imagine anyone who would be a better parent to my son. If it is too much to ask.
TROI: I'd be honored.
WORF: I am ready.

[Operating theater]
RUSSELL: Focus the drechtal beams on the anterior and posterior spinal roots.
CRUSHER: Focused.
RUSSELL: Initiate.
CRUSHER: All neural connections below the first cervical vertebrae have been separated.
RUSSELL: Microtome. I'm severing the brain stem now.
OGAWA: Cerebral cortex placed on life support at zero eight thirty one hours. Three hours twenty six minutes remaining until onset of primary brain dysfunction.
RUSSELL: Okay, let's remove the support frame.
CRUSHER: Exoscalpel.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I've notified Starfleet that our survey of sector three seven six two eight will be delayed at least a week while we drop off survivors from the Denver.
PICARD: Good. I understand from Mister La Forge there's a minor fluctuation in the starboard warp coil.
RIKER: I've scheduled a stress simulation routine for this afternoon to check it out. Has there been any word?
PICARD: No.

[Operating theater]
CRUSHER: Preliminary genetronic scans are complete.
RUSSELL: Initiating DNA sequencer.
CRUSHER: Reading the initial sequences at ten to the ninth base pairs per second.
RUSSELL: Once we're past the first two levels, we'll begin the encoding sequence. Increase TCH levels to
CRUSHER: What's happened?
RUSSELL: The scanner is having trouble reading the Klingon dorsal root ganglia.
CRUSHER: Did this show up in your simulations?
RUSSELL: Yes, but I thought I'd made sufficient adjustments. Bring me the detronal scanner. I can scan the ganglia manually. It'll just take a little longer.
OGAWA: One hour forty three minutes until primary brain dysfunction.
RUSSELL: Retract the paraspinal muscle.
CRUSHER: Got it. Watch the proximal nerve endings.
RUSSELL: I see them. Make sure the cranial segment is at least fifteen centimeters from the brain stem.
OGAWA: I'm reading a slight fluctuation in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Twenty cc's inoprovaline.
RUSSELL: Okay. Release retractors on the paraspinal. How much longer can we keep him on life support?
OGAWA: Twenty seven minutes.
RUSSELL: Cover. Close, please.
CRUSHER: Ready.
RUSSELL: Tissue growth proceeding at anticipated rates. No initial signs of rejection.
RUSSELL: Okay. Ready. Terminate life support.
OGAWA: Life support disengaged.
RUSSELL: Neural connections appear stable.
CRUSHER: Looking good so far.
OGAWA: Fluctuations in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Forty cc's inoprovaline.
RUSSELL: Synaptic response falling.
OGAWA: BP dropping. Now sixty over ten. VeK'tal response falling rapidly.
CRUSHER: Increase oxygen mixture to ninety five percent.
RUSSELL: Beginning direct synaptic stimulation.
OGAWA: Respiration is shallow and rapid. No response in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Seventy five cc's inoprovaline.
OGAWA: Heart rate is erratic.
RUSSELL: He's going into cardiac arrest.
CRUSHER: All right, let's go to chloromydride. Fifteen cc's.
RUSSELL: We're losing him. No BP, no pulse. Brain activity?
OGAWA: Showing no higher brain functions.
CRUSHER: All right twenty five cc's cordrazine.
RUSSELL: That'll kill him.
CRUSHER: Looks like we've done a pretty good job of that already, Doctor.
OGAWA: No BP, no pulse. No activity in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Cortical stimulator. Now. Again. Again. Again. Again.
RUSSELL: Doctor.
CRUSHER: All right, make a note in the log. Death occurred at twelve hundred forty hours.
RUSSELL: It was all going so well. No anomalies during replication, no initial rejection.

[Sickbay]
TROI: No.
CRUSHER: Alexander, I am so sorry.
ALEXANDER: I want to see him.
TROI: Alex.
ALEXANDER: No! I want to see him.

[Operating theater]
CRUSHER: Activate biomonitors. Twenty five cc's polyadrenaline.
RUSSELL: What's going on?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, but if I'm right, one of those unnecessary redundancies
OGAWA: Doctor!
CRUSHER: I don't believe it. Begin cardio-aid and ventilation. That's amazing. There must be a back-up for his synaptic functions as well.
OGAWA: Vital signs are stabilizing.
CRUSHER: Begin rybo-synetic therapy. Increase oxygen mixture to ninety percent. Let's prepare a thalamic booster series.

[Crusher's office]
RUSSELL: Well, I'd say your patient's recovery is going well. You're not even going to acknowledge what I did for him, are you. You just can't admit that it was my research that made this possible.
CRUSHER: I am delighted that Worf is going to recover. You gambled, he won. Not all of your patients are so lucky. You scare me, Doctor. You risk your patient's lives and justify it in the name of research. Genuine research takes time. Sometimes a lifetime of painstaking, detailed work in order to get any results. Not for you. You take short cuts, right through living tissue. You put your research ahead of your patient's lives, and as far as I'm concerned that's a violation of our most sacred trust. I'm sure your work will be hailed as a stunning breakthrough. Enjoy your laurels, Doctor. I'm not sure I could.

[Worf's private room]
CRUSHER: This is going to take time, Worf. Your muscles are still sorting out their new signals. Don't rush it.
TROI: Alexander, remember what we talked about? Your father wants to do this by himself.
WORF: It's all right, Counselor. I would appreciate some help from my son. We will work together.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45614.6. We have been contacted by an androgynous race called the J'naii to investigate the mysterious disappearance of one of their shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we are approaching the designated coordinates.
PICARD: On screen. Long range scan, Mister Data.
DATA: Sensors find no evidence of the shuttle anywhere within the star system.
SOREN: It couldn't have traveled outside the system.
RIKER: Mister Data, reconfigure high resolution sweep, radius one million kilometers. Check for any debris.
DATA: Scan shows no debris within that radius.
KRITE: I don't understand it. A shuttle doesn't simply vanish.
SOREN: There has to be an explanation.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting an unusual reading. It appears to be a neutrino emission with no visible source.
PICARD: Explanation?
DATA: I have none, sir. I recommend we launch a probe.
PICARD: Make it so.
WORF: Probe is launched.
DATA: Sensors show no evidence of any unusual phenomenon.
DATA: The probe is no longer transmitting.
SOREN: What happened? Where did it go?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The sudden disappearance of our probe suggests that we may have found the first instance of what is called null space, an anomaly which until now had been only theoretical. Commander Riker has been working around the clock with a team of J'naii specialists to formalize this hypothesis.

[Civic chamber]
SOREN: During the creation of a star system, when clouds of interstellar dust and gas coalesce, turbulent regions of magnetic and gravitational fields may develop. If certain conditions occur, these fields can condense into abnormal pockets of space.
RIKER: We think your system contains one of these null pockets. If we're right, the pocket would absorb electromagnetic energy from anything that entered it.
SOREN: Like a shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Or a probe. Making them powerless.
SOREN: But outside the pocket, all the energy is bent around it, making it naturally cloaked. That's why we cannot see it, and our sensors cannot read it.
NOOR: Is the shuttle still there?
RIKER: We think so. The shuttle probably wasn't able to sustain its energy, but other than that it wouldn't be damaged.
SOREN: Since our shuttles carry plestorene based backup systems, we think life support would sustain for as long as ten days.
NOOR: Then perhaps our crew has survived.
RIKER: We can send one of our own shuttles, but its energy would also be absorbed. Our Chief Engineer is working on a way to maintain the power reserves long enough to rescue your crew.
NOOR: Commander, we're grateful for your help. Whatever resources we can provide are yours.
SOREN: I've been thinking. When the time comes, I would like to pilot the shuttle.
RIKER: It's a Starfleet craft.
SOREN: I cannot ask you to put yourself in danger to rescue our crew.
RIKER: You can't pilot a shuttle you're not familiar with.
SOREN: I happen to be a good pilot
RIKER: I happen to be a good pilot, too. And I know my way around the Starfleet shuttle. So what if we team up?
SOREN: When can we go over the shuttle flight operations?
RIKER: Right now.

[Shuttlebay]
SOREN: Is this the one?
RIKER: This is it. Short-range craft, two twelve hundred fifty millicochrane warp engines.
SOREN: Looks like microfusion thrusters.
RIKER: Right.
SOREN: Armament?
RIKER: None, usually. This one's been fitted with two type-four phaser emitters. We'll use those to chart the null space.
SOREN: Chart it?
RIKER: Mister La Forge wants to get an idea of the size of the pocket. He thinks the rate of energy absorption is linked to its size.
SOREN: I'm not sure how we go about mapping something we can't see.
RIKER: Well, that's where the emitters come in. We shoot out a series of photon pulses into the pocket and chart where each one disappears. From that we should get a fairly complete outline.
SOREN: Let's take a look at the controls.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Later we'll try a flight simulation. Right now let's do a systems review. I'll talk you through it.
SOREN: Let me try it. Propulsion system, transfer conduits. Where's the schematic reactor assembly? Oh, there it is. Engine nacelles. There's nothing here that's unfamiliar. Navigational deflector, redundant graviton polarity source generators.
RIKER: You handle these controls like you grew up in a shuttle.
SOREN: I did. My parents were pilots. I was flying with them before I could walk. And as soon as I was old enough, I entered flight school. Krite was my instructor.
RIKER: He had a good student.
SOREN: He? Commander, there are no he's or she's in a species without gender.
RIKER: Okay. For two days I've been trying to construct sentences without personal pronouns. Now I give up. What should I use? It? To us, that's rude.
SOREN: We use a pronoun which is neutral. I do not think there is really a translation.
RIKER: Then I'll just have to muddle through. So forgive me if a stray he or she slips by, okay?
SOREN: Well, if that's the systems review, I don't see any problem. What's next?
RIKER: Lunch.

[Ten Forward]
SOREN: What is it?
RIKER: Split pea soup. It's my father's recipe. I had it programmed into the replicators. Well?
SOREN: Unusual, but I think I like it.
RIKER: It's very healthy. Helps to keep you warm on cold Alaskan nights.
SOREN: We prefer to stay warm by sleeping with a friend.
RIKER: I see.
SOREN: Not to mate. Just to sleep together for warmth.
RIKER: Still sounds better than pea soup.
SOREN: We are puzzling to you, aren't we?
RIKER: A little. It's hard to grasp the idea of no gender.
SOREN: It's just as hard for us to understand the strange division in your species. Males and females. You are male. Tell me about males. What is it that makes you different from females?
RIKER: Snips and snails and puppy dog tails?
SOREN: You have a dog's tail?
RIKER: It's an old nursery rhyme. Girls are made from sugar and spice, and boys are made from snips and snails.
SOREN: That makes it sound better to be female.
RIKER: It's an old-fashioned way of looking at the sexes. Not to say that there's no real difference between them. Physically, men are bigger, stronger in the upper body. We have different sexual organs. Men can't bear young.
SOREN: And what about feelings, or emotional attitudes? Are they different?
RIKER: Most people think so. But that's the kind of question that would take a lifetime to answer. Let me ask you, what's it like on a planet where the people have no gender?
SOREN: I'm afraid I don't understand.
RIKER: Well, who leads when you dance? If you dance.
SOREN: We do, and whoever's taller leads.
RIKER: Without the battle of the sexes you probably don't have as many arguments.
SOREN: Just because we don't have gender doesn't mean we don't have conflicts. We're very strong-minded. We love a good fight.
RIKER: From the sound of it there's not that much difference between our species.
SOREN: Maybe not. What kind of woman do you find attractive?
RIKER: I like one who's intelligent and sure of herself, who I can talk with and get something back. But the most important thing of all? She has to laugh at my jokes.
SOREN: Tell me, is that the kind of woman that all human males prefer?
RIKER: Not at all. Some like quiet, demure women. Others prefer a lot of energy. Some only respond to physical attractiveness. Others couldn't care less. There are no rules.
SOREN: You make it sound very complex.
RIKER: Believe me, it is.
SOREN: Well, perhaps it is that complexity which makes differences in the sexes so interesting.
KRITE: Good evening, Commander.
RIKER: Good evening.
SOREN: Please take my place, Krite. I have to be going. Thank you for going over the flight protocols, Commander. It was very helpful.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and the J'naii pilot have set out to chart the null space pocket. If they are successful, we can then proceed with a rescue attempt.

[Shuttlecraft]
SOREN: I've illuminated the delta four grid map. We'll start there and expand.
RIKER: Stand by, forward phaser array.
SOREN: Pulse vanished at delta four point two by point three.
RIKER: Firing second burst.
SOREN: Delta four point four by point five.
RIKER: This is working. Initiating computer task hand-off.
SOREN: Commander, tell me about your sexual organs.
RIKER: Er.
SOREN: Is that an uncomfortable subject for humans?
RIKER: No, but it doesn't tend to be a topic of casual conversation.
SOREN: I'm interested in your mating practices. What is involved with two sexes?
RIKER: Correcting course. Zero two one mark zero.
SOREN: Mating?
RIKER: Right. Well, it's pretty simple. Men inseminate the women. Women carry the baby.
SOREN: Our fetuses are incubated in fibrous husks, which the parents inseminate. From what we know of other species, our method is less risky and less painful.
RIKER: And less enjoyable.
SOREN: Less enjoyable?
RIKER: For humans, the sexual act brings a closeness and intimacy. It can be a very pleasurable experience. Inseminating a husk.
SOREN: That's just the last step. Mating is a long ritual for us, full of variety and invention. I assure you, it is extremely pleasurable.
RIKER: I'm picking up a neutrino emission from within the null space.
SOREN: That may be coming from our shuttle. I'll note these coordinates.
SOREN: I wonder.
RIKER: What?
SOREN: If a human and a J'naii would be sexually compatible.
RIKER: I don't know.
SOREN: Of course it would never be permitted.
RIKER: Why not?
SOREN: The idea of gender. It is offensive to my people. You see, long ago we had two sexes, as you do. But we evolved into a higher form. I don't mean to sound insulting, but on my planet we have been taught that gender is primitive.
RIKER: Primitive?
SOREN: Less evolved.
RIKER: Maybe so, but sometimes there's a lot to be said for an experience that's primitive.
SOREN: Delta five grid map is fully plotted.
RIKER: Adjusting course. Zero two nine mark zero.
RIKER: The port engine's down.
SOREN: Reducing power in the starboard nacelle.
RIKER: That's not enough. I have to activate the maneuvering thrusters.
SOREN: Thrusters aren't responding. I'll try to reroute the firing sequence.
RIKER: Inertial dampers are failing. Hang on!
LAFORGE (voiceover): Enterprise to shuttle, do you read me?
RIKER: Affirmative. We've lost an engine.
LAFORGE (voiceover): We'll try to get a tractor beam on you.
RIKER: The sooner the better. Enterprise, we have an injury. Transport Soren directly to Sickbay.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Right away, Commander.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's just a mild concussion. You're going to be fine. This will reduce the inflammation.
SOREN: Doctor, you are female.
CRUSHER: Yes.
SOREN: Forgive me, I do not mean to be rude, but I'm curious. What is it like?
CRUSHER: Well, it's just the way I am. I've never really thought about what it's like.
SOREN: I've noticed you tend to have longer hair, and you arrange it more elaborately. And you apply color to your bodies.
CRUSHER: Color?
SOREN: You put color on your mouths, and your eyes, your cheeks, your fingernails. The men don't.
CRUSHER: That's true.
SOREN: Then it is up to women to attract the men.
CRUSHER: Oh, no. Men want to be attractive too, believe me. They just go about it differently.
SOREN: No color.
CRUSHER: No color. They like to pretend they're not doing anything to attract a woman, even when it's the most important thing on their minds.
SOREN: This is very confusing. Then, are women considered more superior, or are men?
CRUSHER: Neither. In the past, women were often considered weak and inferior. But that hasn't been true for a long time.
CRUSHER: Will, your co-pilot is going to be fine. The injury was minor.
RIKER: I'm glad to hear it.
SOREN: I'm afraid you're not rid of me yet, Commander. I will be able to complete the mission.
RIKER: Glad you feel better.
SOREN: What happened? What made the shuttle go into a spin?
RIKER: The port nacelle must have nipped one of the protrusions from the null pocket and shut it down.
SOREN: Are we still on schedule, then?
RIKER: That depends on how you're doing.
SOREN: I'm fine. We should go check the port engine.
RIKER: Whoa. Maybe we should get the doctor's opinion first.
SOREN: Doctor?
CRUSHER: I don't see any problem. But if you feel any symptoms, headache, dizziness, come back.
SOREN: You have my word.

[Data's quarters]
TROI: All right. This hand, the game is Federation Day.
WORF: What is that?
TROI: Well, the Federation was founded in Twenty One Sixty One, so, twos, sixes, and aces are wild.
WORF: That is a woman's game.
TROI: Oh? Why is that?
WORF: All those wild cards. They support a weak hand. A man's game has no wild cards.
CRUSHER: Let me get this straight. Are you saying it's a woman's game because women are weak and need more help?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: And just this afternoon I was insisting to one of the J'naii that those attitudes were but a distant memory.
WORF: The J'naii. They bother me.
TROI: Why, Worf?
WORF: They just do. They're all alike. No males, no females.
TROI: Well I'm sure we're just as strange to them.
CRUSHER: Well one of them seems to be overcoming the differences, at least in regards to one of us.
WORF: What are you saying, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I could be wrong, but I get the definite impression that Soren is attracted to Commander Riker.
WORF: A human and a J'naii? Impossible.
DATA: Why?
TROI: Good question. Worf?
WORF: With all these wild cards, it is difficult to know exactly what is in my hand. However, I will open with fifty.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: The portable transporter array is in. When we get into null space, we'll need to initialize it before we can transport the J'naii crew to this shuttle. But there should still be enough power left to beam all of us back to the Enterprise.
SOREN: Is the buffer field generator installed?
RIKER: Not yet. Geordi thinks that'll be ready by oh eight hundred hours tomorrow. But before that, we should see if we can balance this engine. Can you access the starboard manifold thrust?
SOREN: There.
RIKER: Set the arc at six point three. I'll optimize the plasma flow.
SOREN: Commander, I'd like to tell you something. Something that's not easy to say.
RIKER: What's that?
SOREN: I find you attractive. I'm taking a terrible risk telling you that. It means revealing something to you, something that, if it were known on my planet, would be very dangerous for me. Occasionally, among my people, there are a few who are born different, who are throwbacks from the era when we all had gender. Some have strong inclinations to maleness, and some have urges to be female. I am one of the latter.
RIKER: I have to admit I had a feeling you were different.
SOREN: I was hoping you would. But in front of Krite and the others, I must be careful not to reveal myself.
RIKER: Why?
SOREN: On our world these feelings are forbidden. Those who are discovered are shamed and ridiculed, and only by undergoing psychotectic therapy and having all elements of gender eliminated can they become accepted into society again. Those of us who have these urges live secret and guarded lives. We seek each other out, always hiding, always terrified of being discovered.
RIKER: How long have you known that you were like this?
SOREN: I've known I was different all my life. But I didn't understand how or why until I was older.
RIKER: And when you realized, what then?
SOREN: I remember when I was very young, before I knew what I was, there was a rumor in my school that one of the students preferred a gender, in that case, male. The children started making fun of him, and every day they were more cruel They could tell he was afraid and somehow that seemed to encourage them. One morning in class, he appeared, bleeding and in ripped clothes. He said he had fallen down. And of course the school authorities found out and took him away, and gave him psychotectic treatments. When he came back, he stood in front of the whole school and told us how happy he was now that he had been cured. After that, I realized how dangerous it was to be different. And once I got older, and knew what I was, I was terrified. I have had to live with that fear ever since.
RIKER: Do you have relationships with others?
SOREN: Yes, with those who have discovered they are male. I have had to live a life of pretense and lies, but with you I can be honest. Please, don't say anything. Just think about it.

[Shuttlebay]
LAFORGE: That's it, Commander, everything checks out. The energy buffer is installed and functioning. I estimate it should reduce the power drain to your systems by about forty percent.
RIKER: Any guess how long we'll have?
LAFORGE: Lets just say you don't want to waste any time once you get in there. You'll have to give him continuous readouts on energy consumption. I can't even predict if the drain will be at a constant rate.
SOREN: I understand.
LAFORGE: Then that's it. Commander, I'll monitor you as far as I can, but once you get inside that pocket you're on your own.
RIKER: We don't have any idea what condition the shuttle crew is in, so we'll all beam directly to Sickbay.
LAFORGE: I'll notify Doctor Crusher to be standing by.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here.
LAFORGE: We're ready to initiate shuttle pre-launch sequence.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Data.
DATA: Initiating pre-launch sequence.
RIKER (voiceover): Request flight clearance.
DATA: Clearance is granted. The shuttle is under way, sir.
PICARD: Good hunting, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): Thank you, sir. See you for dinner.

[Shuttlecraft]
SOREN: Heading confirmed. Energy readings are normal, with power reserves stabilized at one hundred percent.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
SOREN: It's dead ahead, approximately fifty kilometers.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise, we're taking her in.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise? Riker to Enterprise.
SOREN: Power reserves are down to eighty four percent.
RIKER: Look. Try hailing them.
SOREN: Calling the Taris Murn. Do you read me?
RIKER: Getting sensor readings. They're unconscious but they're alive. Stand by. I'm going to transport them over here.
SOREN: Power reserves at sixty eight percent and dropping.
RIKER: The null space must be affecting the annular confinement beam.
SOREN: We used ten megajoules with that attempt. We're down to thirty four percent of reserves.
RIKER: We can give it one more try. More than that, we won't have enough power to get ourselves out of here.
SOREN: They need medical attention quickly.
RIKER: Okay. Stand by to transport to the Enterprise. Here we go.
RIKER: Energy consumption?
SOREN: We're down to nine percent. We don't have enough to get back.
RIKER: If we just sit here, we'll lose all of our systems within an hour, including life support. Okay, I'm rerouting the propulsion system to the transporter. Re-channel the navigation systems. Let's transfer every microjoule of energy we've got. Sensors, life support. This might give us one last shot.
SOREN: But if we use an energy shift of that size, it'll overload the phase compensators. The shuttle
RIKER: Will explode. But if we stay here, we're dead anyway. Maximum energy levels, five seconds. See you in a minute.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: They've been oxygen deprived. There doesn't seem to be any significant damage. Prepare some dexalin.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
KRITE: Commander, thank you.
RIKER: Your colleague Soren was very helpful.
KRITE: Captain, would you all join us this evening? We would like to express our gratitude.
PICARD: We'd be happy to.
KRITE: Noor will be eager to get a first hand report. We should return to the surface.
SOREN: I will see you later tonight, Commander.

[Courtyard]
SOREN: There you are, Commander. I wondered what had happened to our guest of honor.
RIKER: I just needed some air. I can only take so much of these social functions, and then I need to breathe a little.
SOREN: I would think you had attended so many affairs like this that it would become second nature to you.
RIKER: I was raised outdoors. I'm never been very comfortable in crowded rooms.
SOREN: What do you think of our planet? Isn't it beautiful?
RIKER: Yes, it is. It's beautiful.
SOREN: We have many varieties of plant life. Perhaps you would like to inspect some of them?
RIKER: Yes, I would. I've always been interested in exobotany.
SOREN: Please, let me take you on a tour.
RIKER: Thank you. It's kind of you.

[Woods]
SOREN: One of my favorites is this menellen tree. The leaves first turn pure white, and then blue, when the weather gets cold. This is called a falla bush. It produces a fragrant flower on only one day of the year.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45620.4. In the hope that a detailed map of null space will prevent the loss of other ships, we remain in orbit of J'naii, charting the anomaly.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in. Hello, Will.
RIKER: What's all this?
TROI: Wonderful things. My mother sent me a box that belonged to one of my father's ancestors. It was stored on Earth and just recently turned up.
RIKER: Do you know who any of these people are?
TROI: No. Some of the pictures have names on, but most of them don't. I look at these faces and I wonder who they are and if they could be related to me.
RIKER: This one looks like you. Deanna, I have something on my mind. I had to see you.
TROI: Has something happened?
RIKER: I've met someone. Someone who's becoming important to me.
TROI: Soren.
RIKER: Yes. You're my friend. I thought, I don't know, I thought I should tell you.
TROI: I'm glad you did.
RIKER: Nothing will change between us, will it?
TROI: Of course it will. All relationships are constantly changing. But we'll still be friends, maybe better friends. You're a part of my life, and I'm a part of yours. That much will always be true.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Hello. I'm here to see Soren.
KRITE: I know.
RIKER: We had an appointment. We were going to discuss
KRITE: I don't think so, Commander.
RIKER: Excuse me?
KRITE: We know about the two of you. We know what you're doing.
RIKER: Where is Soren?
KRITE: We're going to make sure it doesn't happen again.
RIKER: Answer me. Where is Soren?
KRITE: In custody, and there's nothing you can do about it.
RIKER: The hell there isn't.

[Civic chamber]
NOOR: You are aware of the charges against you?
SOREN: Yes.
NOOR: Do you intend to dispute them? Well? What is your response?
NOOR: Commander Riker, these proceedings are closed to everyone.
RIKER: I think I just opened them.
NOOR: Sir, this is a private matter. We are grateful for your recent help, but that gives you no right to interfere with our personal concerns.
RIKER: I want you to know what really happened. It's all my fault. I was attracted to Soren. I pursued. I insisted. I didn't understand your ways until she explained them to me and rejected me. Nothing happened between us. I ask your forgiveness. I behaved inappropriately.
NOOR: Is this true?
SOREN: No.
RIKER: Soren.
SOREN: I am tired of lies. I am female. I was born that way. I have had those feelings, those longings, all of my life. It is not unnatural. I am not sick because I feel this way. I do not need to be helped. I do not need to be cured. What I need, and what all of those who are like me need, is your understanding and your compassion. We have not injured you in any way. And yet, we are scorned and attacked. And all because we are different. What we do is no different from what you do. We talk and laugh. We complain about work and we wonder about growing old. We talk about our families, and we worry about the future. And we cry with each other when things seem hopeless. All of the loving things that you do with each other, that is what we do. And for that we are called misfits and deviants and criminals. What right do you have to punish us? What right do you have to change us? What makes you think you can dictate how people love each other?
NOOR: I congratulate you, Soren. Your decision to admit your perversion makes it much more likely that we can help you.
RIKER: Wait, wait, wait. You don't have to do this.
NOOR: Commander?
RIKER: Let me take her with me. She can go back to the Enterprise. We would give her asylum. You would never have to see her again. That would solve the problem, wouldn't it? You'd be rid of her. She would never be able to influence anyone again.
NOOR: Commander, after Soren's diatribe, you must think that we are a cruel, repressive people. Nothing could be further from the truth.
RIKER: I'm just trying to find a solution that would satisfy everyone.
NOOR: We are concerned about our citizens. We take our obligations to them seriously. Soren is sick, and sick people want to get well.
RIKER: Did it occur to you that she might like to stay the way she is?
NOOR: You don't understand. We have a very high success rate in treating deviants like this. And without exception, they become happier people after their treatment, and grateful that we care enough to cure them. You see, Commander, on this world, everyone wants to be normal.
RIKER: She is.
NOOR: Take Soren to quarters. Treatment will begin tomorrow.
RIKER: Don't do this. Soren!
NOOR: No more, Commander.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. One to transport.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I can't just leave her there. They'll give her these psychotectic treatments. I don't know what to do.
PICARD: Well, I could talk to Noor. Perhaps there's a way to work something out.
RIKER: Sir, their minds are set. They don't want to hear another alternative.
PICARD: Then I'm not sure that there's much that we can do.
RIKER: There has to be. My relationship with Soren is not trivial. She's very important to me. It's my fault that this happened. I have to help her.
PICARD: Will, if you've come here for sanction to take matters into your own hands, I can't give it to you.
RIKER: I know that, but I have to do something.
PICARD: Interfering in the internal matters of the J'naii is prohibited by the Prime Directive.
RIKER: I'm aware of that.
PICARD: If you violate it, you may jeopardizing your career. Starfleet doesn't take these matters lightly, Will. I can't defend you if you go too far. Do you understand that?
RIKER: You've made yourself very clear, sir.
PICARD: Don't risk everything you've worked for.
RIKER: Thank you. May I be excused now?

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Who is it?
WORF (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf.
RIKER: Come in.
WORF: Commander, I have the plan for deploying warning buoys around the null space.
RIKER: Fine. Leave it, I'll take a look at it later.
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Thank you. You're dismissed.
WORF: Commander, I am aware of what transpired on the planet surface. Are you by any chance considering an unannounced visit? I will go with you.
RIKER: Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir, you are my commanding officer. If you order me to stay on board, I will obey. But I ask you not to give that order. A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.

[Courtyard]
RIKER: Something's happening. They're leaving.
RIKER: Okay. Excuse me. I need to speak to her alone for a moment.
SOREN: Wait.
RIKER: Don't worry. We'll be out of here in a minute.
SOREN: Please. don't.
RIKER: All right, 1e're almost there.
SOREN: You cannot do this.
RIKER: I won't let them hurt you. You'll be safe on the Enterprise.
SOREN: I am so sorry. It was my fault that you got involved in all this.
RIKER: Everything's going to be all right. Everything's going to be fine.
SOREN: No, it is not.
RIKER: What are you talking about?
SOREN: It was all a mistake, and I should have realized it from the beginning.
RIKER: What?
SOREN: That I was sick. I had these terrible urges, and that is why I reached out to you. But it was wrong, and I see that now. I do not understand how I could have done what I did.
RIKER: Maybe Doctor Crusher can treat you and bring you back to the way you were.
SOREN: Why would I want that?
RIKER: Soren. I love you.
SOREN: I'm sorry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How long to the Phelan system, Mister Data?
DATA: At warp six, fifty three hours, sir.
PICARD: Commander?
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Starfleet has sent a message asking us to proceed to the Phelan system to negotiate a trade agreement.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I didn't know when to tell them we will be there. Is our business with the J'naii finished?
RIKER: Finished, sir.
PICARD: Very well. Ensign, take us out of orbit. Set a course for the Phelan system, warp six.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Damage report!
CRUSHER: Casualty reports coming in from all over the ship.
DATA: The starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting drive plasma.
LAFORGE: Initiating emergency core shutdown.
RO: Inertial dampers failing. We're losing attitude control.
RIKER: This is the Bridge. All hands to emergency escape pods.
DATA: Core shutdown is unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
LAFORGE: We've got to eject the core!
DATA: Ejection systems offline. Core breach is imminent.
PICARD: All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We're the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
DATA: Eight, Ace, Queen. The dealer receives a four.
WORF: No bet.
DATA: Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. The dealer receives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, you control the next bet.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Data. I bet ten. Worf?
DATA: Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
RIKER: Your twenty, and fifty more.
WORF: Fifty?
CRUSHER: I'm in.
DATA: I will also see the bet. Seven. A possible straight for Commander Riker. Jack. Still no help for the Klingon. Eight. Nine for the dealer.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
DATA: Too rich for my blood.
RIKER: Your twenty, one hundred more.
WORF: Fold.
CRUSHER: Two hundred.
RIKER: Your two, and three hundred more.
WORF: He does not have a straight.
CRUSHER: We'll soon find out, won't we. Let's see your cards.
RIKER: Take it. How'd you know I was bluffing?
CRUSHER: I just had a feeling.
RIKER: I guess it's better to be lucky than good.
CRUSHER: It's the way your left eyebrow raises when your bluffing. Just kidding, Commander.
OGAWA (voiceover): Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA (voiceover): Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. Luckily Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain the dizziness and the headaches. But there's no physical evidence. My guess is you've been working too hard.
LAFORGE: I have been putting a lot of extra hours on this Typhon Expanse project.
CRUSHER: I'll give you twenty cc's of vertazine. That should clear up the dizziness. But finding time to relax is up to you.
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: You're sure?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm positive. Why?
CRUSHER: It's funny. I feel like we've discussed this before, and I remember giving you a hypospray for dizziness.
LAFORGE: I've never had these symptoms before today, so you must be thinking about another patient.
CRUSHER: No. I'm sure it was you. Well, try to get some rest, and try to stay away from high places for a few days, just in case.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Doc.
CRUSHER: Goodnight.
LAFORGE: Goodnight.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: As you can see, the Typhon Expanse is huge. If we want to chart the most remote star system, we'll have to launch a probe within the next few hours.
RIKER: Fine. What about the luminosity studies?
LAFORGE: That may pose a problem.
PICARD: How so?
LAFORGE: The flux spectrometers are still down for re-alignment.
RIKER: I thought they were supposed to be back online yesterday.
LAFORGE: They were, until the stellar dynamics lab decided they needed to install new modules.
DATA: I recommend we use a gravitron polarimeter. It will perform a similar function.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data.
CRUSHER: Captain, I have something I'd like to report.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I heard voices in my room last night. I was alone, so at first I thought I was imagining things. But this morning, ten other people reported hearing them at the same time I did.
TROI: What were the voices saying?
CRUSHER: I couldn't make them out.
RIKER: Data, did the sensors pick up anything unusual last night?
DATA: No anomalous readings were reported.
RIKER: When we're through here, re-check the sensor logs.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I sensed nothing unusual last night.
LAFORGE: Maybe it's a problem with the comm. system.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
PICARD: On our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RO: Sensors didn't detect the phenomenon until we were almost on top of it, sir.
WORF: It is a highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD: Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow.
RO: Aye sir. Captain, maneuvering thrusters are not responding.
DATA: The distortion field is fluctuating.
LAFORGE: All main systems just went down. Power levels are dropping rapidly.
RIKER: Red alert.
DATA: There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
TROI: We have to get out of here now.
DATA: Captain, something is emerging.
RIKER: Shields up. Evasive maneuvers.
WORF: Shields inoperative.
RO: The helm's not responding.
DATA: The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Decompress main shuttlebay. The explosive reaction may kick us out of the way.
DATA: Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship's trajectory.
PICARD: Mister Worf, make it so.
WORF: Engaging tractor beam.
RIKER: Damage report!
CRUSHER: Casualty reports coming in from all over the ship.
DATA: Starboard nacelle sustained a direct impact. Venting drive plasma.
LAFORGE: Initiating emergency core shutdown.
RO: Inertial dampers failing. We're losing attitude control.
RIKER: This is the Bridge. All hands to emergency escape pods.
DATA: Core shutdown was unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
LAFORGE: We've got to eject the engine core!
DATA: Ejection systems are offline. Core breach is imminent.
PICARD: All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards have been sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
DATA: Eight. Ace. Queen. The dealer receives a four.
WORF: No bet.
DATA: Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. Dealer receives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, you control the next bet.
WORF: Is there something wrong, Doctor?
CRUSHER: No. I bet ten.
DATA: Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
RIKER: Your twenty and I'll raise you fifty. You're going to call my bluff, aren't you. I think I'll quit while I'm ahead.
CRUSHER: How did you know I was going to call your bluff?
RIKER: I just had a feeling.
CRUSHER: Me too.
OGAWA (voiceover): Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA (voiceover): Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. I was lucky Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain your the headaches and the dizziness. But there's no physical
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you ever had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: Now that you mention it, I think I have.
CRUSHER: Do you recall when?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: We've had this discussion before and I know I've given you this examination. Let's check the medical logs. You've been treated several times for headaches related to your visor, but I read no mention of dizziness.
LAFORGE: Must be déjà vu.
CRUSHER: Both of us? About the same thing?

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Do you have a minute, Jean-Luc?

[Ready room]
PICARD: My Aunt Adele cured a lot of sleepless nights with this steamed milk.
CRUSHER: Thank you. Mmm, nutmeg.
PICARD: Whenever I get insomnia, I try to perfect the recipe.
CRUSHER: It was the eeriest feeling. When the glass broke, it triggered the sensation even more intensely that I'd done it all before.
PICARD: You know, earlier, I was reading this book, and I had the distinct feeling I'd read certain paragraphs before. But I assumed I'd read the book years ago and I'd forgotten.
CRUSHER: I've had this feeling for hours. And then the voices.
PICARD: Well, it could be nothing more than the result of a sleepless night. But let's be sure. Have Data and Geordi run a shipwide diagnostic, concentrating on the time and place you heard the voices, and we'll discuss the results tomorrow at seven hundred hours.
CRUSHER: Thank you. For everything.
PICARD: Thank Aunt Adele.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The internal scans were negative. There was no evidence of auditory anomalies anywhere on the ship.
LAFORGE: As far as the sensors are concerned, nothing unusual happened last night.
CRUSHER: Ten other people reported hearing voices at the same time I did.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
PICARD: On our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RO: Sensors didn't detect the phenomenon until we were almost on top of it, sir.
WORF: It is a highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD: Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow.
RO: Aye sir. Captain, maneuvering thrusters are not responding.
DATA: The distortion field is fluctuating.
LAFORGE: All main systems just went down. Power levels are dropping rapidly.
RIKER: Red alert.
DATA: There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
TROI: We have to get out of here now.
DATA: Captain, something is emerging.
RIKER: Shields up. Evasive maneuvers.
WORF: Shields inoperative.
RO: The helm is not responding.
DATA: The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Decompress main shuttlebay. The explosive reaction may blow us out of the way.
DATA: Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship's trajectory.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Worf.
WORF: Engaging tractor beam.
RIKER: Damage report!
CRUSHER: Casualty reports coming in from all over the ship.
DATA: Starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting drive plasma.
LAFORGE: Initiating emergency core shutdown.
RO: Inertial dampers failing. We're losing attitude control.
RIKER: This is the Bridge. All hands to emergency escape pods.
DATA: Core shutdown was unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
LAFORGE: We've got to eject the core!
DATA: Ejector systems are offline. Core breach is imminent
PICARD: All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.

[Somebody's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
RIKER: Something wrong, Mister Worf?
WORF: I am experiencing nIb'poH, the feeling I have done this before.
RIKER: Yeah, last Tuesday night.
WORF: That's not what I mean.
CRUSHER: I've been having the same feeling. Keep dealing, Data.
DATA: Eight. Ace.
CRUSHER: A Queen. You're going to give me a Queen. And you're going to get a four. Deal, Data.
DATA: But no one has bet.
CRUSHER: Forget the bet. Just deal. Ten, seven, queen.
WORF: Nine. Jack. Four.
RIKER: Deuce. Six.
DATA: This is highly improbable.
RIKER: How did we know?
CRUSHER: Wait. Crusher to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Sickbay here.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Is Commander La Forge there?
OGAWA: No, Doctor, he's not. Wait a minute. He just came in.
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes. Captain, have you been getting the feeling that you've experienced certain things before? A sense of repetition?
PICARD: Yes, recently. While I was reading. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There have been similar incidents reported all over the ship. Feelings of déjà vu. I had a premonition Geordi was going to come in to Sickbay. A few seconds later he did, with the symptoms of an ear infection. I was going to run the standard tests, but somehow I had a feeling they would turn out negative. So I ran an optical diagnostic which traced the problem to Geordi's visor. His dizziness is being caused by a phase shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see images that aren't there.
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images.
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field. Somehow, his visor is translating those distortions into visual impulses.
LAFORGE: It could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator. I'll check it out.
PICARD: Run a localized subspace scan to look for anything else.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me advised.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
CRUSHER: Geordi, I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but no one else is here.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're checking it out.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Looks like you managed to record six point two seconds worth. Let's see if we can filter the signal and clear it up a little bit.
CRUSHER: Then I wasn't just hearing things?
DATA: The sound itself appears to have been real. However the acoustic energy does not correspond to any ship's system, nor to any voice communications sent at the time you heard it.
CRUSHER: Then where did the sound come from?
LAFORGE: You heard the voices at the same time our localized subspace scan picked up a dekyon field distortion. The two may be related. Let's give another listen.
DATA: Computer, perform a narrow bandwidth analysis. Eliminate all non-vocal waveform components.
CRUSHER: Can we isolate the voices? Find out what they're saying?
DATA: Computer, continuous playback please. There are approximately one thousand voices overlapping. The voices are those of the Enterprise crew. Our voices.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: I'm sorry to call you here so early, but we couldn't wait until oh seven hundred hours. We think we may have an explanation for the odd occurrences around here. Commander.
LAFORGE: This is going to sound pretty wild. Somehow, we've entered what seems to be a temporal causality loop. We think we're stuck in a particular fragment in time, and we've been repeating that same fragment over and over again.
TROI: Is this what's causing our déjà vu?
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's more than that. In déjà vu, you only think you're repeating events. We actually are.
LAFORGE: Our theory is this. Every time the loop begins again, everything resets itself, and starts all over. We don't remember anything that happened before, so each time through the loop, we think it's the first.
RIKER: You mean we could have come into this room, sat at this table and had this conversation a dozen times already?
LAFORGE: A dozen, a hundred, it's impossible to tell. We could have been trapped here for hours, days, maybe years.
CRUSHER: If what we're saying is true, those voices I heard might have been echoes from previous loops.
LAFORGE: It's the same thing with the phase shift in my visor. After-images in time.
PICARD: If you're right about this, how did it happen? How did we get there?
DATA: I have a hypothesis that may explain that, Captain. I have analyzed the recording Doctor Crusher made. Most of it is quite ordinary. One hundred fifty discussions about ship operations, two hundred fifty two conversations of a personal nature, five couples engaged in romantic encounters.
PICARD: Your point, Mister Data?
DATA: There is evidence of some sort of disaster aboard the Enterprise, severe enough that the Captain ordered all hands to abandon ship. I have isolated three segments of the recording that are crucial.
WORF (voiceover): A highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
DATA (voiceover): Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD (voiceover): All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon
LAFORGE: Worf refers to a distortion. If this were a temporal distortion, and if we were close enough to it, it's possible that a large enough explosion might've ruptured the space-time continuum. We collided, exploded, then got stuck in this repeating loop of time.
PICARD: If you're right, perhaps we could escape the loop by avoiding the collision.
LAFORGE: That's our guess.
WORF: Maybe we should reverse course.
RIKER: For all we know, reversing course may be what leads us into the crash.
PICARD: No. We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We'll stay on this course until we have reason to change it. But let's do everything we can to avoid the collision.
LAFORGE: Captain, we might not be able to figure out how to avoid this accident until it's too late. And if the loop begins again, we'll forget everything we've learned this time around.
PICARD: What do you suggest?
LAFORGE: If we do find a way to avoid this collision, we should try to send that information into the next loop.
RIKER: Is that possible?
DATA: We have seen that echoes, or after-images, from previous loops appear as distortions in the dekyon field. We may be able to send a deliberate echo into the next loop.
TROI: Like a message in a bottle.
LAFORGE: Exactly. We could enhance a dekyon emission to create a specific pattern and send ourselves a message. Not a long one, probably only a few characters. Maybe one word.
RIKER: How do we know we'll pick up that word the next time through?
DATA: If the dekyon emission is modulated correctly, it will set up resonances in my positronic subprocessors. I will receive the information on what you would call a subconscious level.
LAFORGE: Now there's the catch. We have no way of knowing how this information will be perceived by Data. It might be like a posthypnotic suggestion.
PICARD: Even with all these uncertainties, we've got to try. Take whatever steps are necessary to send a message. Dismissed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: You know, it's possible we've tried this a thousand times and it's never worked.
CRUSHER: Do you have a feeling that you've done this before?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: Neither do I. Maybe that's a good sign.
LAFORGE: Let's test the emitter.
DATA: Particle accelerators at full power.
LAFORGE: Dekyon field active. Particle flux nominal. We're in business.
CRUSHER: All we need now is a message.
RIKER (voiceover): Senior officers, report to the Bridge.
CRUSHER: On our way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've got to figure out how we've handled this before.
PICARD: Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow.
RO: Aye sir. Captain maneuvering thrusters are not responding.
DATA: The distortion field is fluctuating.
LAFORGE: All main systems just went down. Power levels are dropping rapidly.
DATA: There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
TROI: We have to get out of here now.
DATA: Captain, something is emerging.
RIKER: Shields up. Evasive maneuvers.
WORF: Shields inoperative.
RO: The helm's not responding.
DATA: The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Decompress main shuttlebay. The explosive reaction may blow us out of the way.
DATA: Captain, I recommend we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship's trajectory.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Worf.
WORF: Engaging tractor beam.
RIKER: Damage report!
CRUSHER: Casualty reports are coming in from all over the ship.
DATA: Starboard nacelle has sustained a direct impact. We are venting drive plasma.
LAFORGE: Initiating emergency core shutdown.
RO: Inertial dampers failing. We're losing attitude control.
RIKER: This is the Bridge. All hands to emergency escape pods.
DATA: Core shutdown is unsuccessful. We are losing antimatter containment.
LAFORGE: We got to eject the core!
DATA: Ejection systems are offline. Core breach is imminent.
PICARD: All hands abandon ship. Repeat, all hands abandon
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
RIKER: Something wrong, Mister Worf?
WORF: I am experiencing nIb'poH. The feeling I have done this before.
RIKER: Yeah, last Tuesday night.
WORF: That is not what I mean.
CRUSHER: I've been having the same feeling. Wait. An eight, an Ace, a Queen and a four. Deal the cards, Data.
DATA: Three. All threes.
CRUSHER: I was positive I knew what cards were going to be dealt.
WORF: I was also sure.
RIKER: Finish dealing the hand.
RIKER: Look at this, we've all got three of a kind.
CRUSHER: First we get a three, and then three of a kind.
OGAWA (voiceover): Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA (voiceover): Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. I was lucky Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain the headaches, dizziness. But I don't see any physical
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you ever had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: Now that you mention it, I think I have.
CRUSHER: Do you recall when?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: I know we've had this discussion before, and I remember giving you this examination. Let's check the medical logs. You've been treated several times for headaches related to your visor but there's no mention of dizziness.
LAFORGE: Must be déjà vu.
CRUSHER: Both of us? About the same thing? I'd like to run an optical diagnostic.
LAFORGE: For an ear infection?
CRUSHER: I have a hunch. Hold still. This pulse may be a little bright. Have you made any changes to your visor lately?
LAFORGE: No. Why?
CRUSHER: I'm detecting a small phase shift in your visual receptors.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Can you come to Sickbay immediately? It's urgent.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His dizziness is being caused by a phase shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see things that aren't there.
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images.
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field. His visor seems to be translating those distortions into visual impulses.
LAFORGE: Could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator. I'll check it out.
PICARD: While you're at it, run a localized subspace scan to look for anything unusual.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me advised, Doctor.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lateral sensors online. Subspace scanners active. Data, would you run a level two diagnostic on the warp subsystems?
DATA: Certainly.
LAFORGE: All threes. that can't be right.
DATA: I have encountered the numeral three an inordinate number of times over the last two hours.
LAFORGE: We have got a dekyon field fluctuation on deck nine, section twenty eight.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but there's no one here.
LAFORGE: Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're checking it out.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I'm on my way down.
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher, are you all right?
CRUSHER (voiceover): I'm fine.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I have isolated three segments of this recording that are crucial.
WORF (voiceover): A highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
DATA (voiceover): Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD (voiceover): All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon
LAFORGE: Worf refers to a distortion. If this were a temporal distortion, and if we were close enough to it, it's possible that a large enough explosion might've ruptured the space time continuum. We collided, exploded, then got stuck in this repeating loop of time.
PICARD: If you're right about this then perhaps we can escape the loop by avoiding the collision.
LAFORGE: That's our guess.
WORF: Perhaps we should reverse course.
RIKER: For all we know, reversing course might be what leads us into the crash.
PICARD: We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We should stay on this course until we have reason to change it. But in the meantime, I think we should do what we can to avoid a collision.
LAFORGE: Captain. We've been seeing the number three all over the ship. On consoles, in a poker game.
DATA: To date we have encountered two thousand eighty five conspicuous examples of the number three.
LAFORGE: All of these threes can't be coming up by accident.
CRUSHER: Maybe somebody's trying to tell us something.
LAFORGE: We came to the same conclusion so we ran a shipwide diagnostic. The only unusual thing we found was a dekyon field modulation in Data's positronic subprocessors.
RIKER: What could be causing it?
LAFORGE: I don't know, but if I wanted to send information from one loop to the next I might use a method like a dekyon emission.
TROI: You think we sent ourselves a message?
LAFORGE: It would make sense. Maybe we are trying to tell ourselves something.
PICARD: If that were true, what could three indicate?
RIKER: Maybe we should run a level three diagnostic on all key systems.
LAFORGE: It's a good idea. I'll have the computer run a pattern matching algorithm based on the number three.
RO (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
RO (voiceover): We're getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
PICARD: On our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RO: Sensors didn't detect the phenomenon until we were almost on top of it, Captain.
WORF: It is a highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
RIKER: On screen. How do you think we handled this before?
PICARD: Back us off, Ensign. Nice and slow.
RO: Aye, sir. Captain, maneuvering thrusters are not responding.
DATA: The distortion field is fluctuating.
LAFORGE: All main systems just went down. Power levels are dropping rapidly.
DATA: There is an energy build up in the distortion field.
TROI: We have to get out of here now.
DATA: Captain, something is emerging.
RIKER: Shields up. Evasive maneuvers.
WORF: Shields inoperative.
RO: The helm's not responding.
DATA: The vessel is on a collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Decompress main shuttlebay. The explosive reaction may kick us out of the way.
DATA: Captain, I suggest we use the tractor beam to alter the other ship's trajectory.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Worf.
WORF: Engaging tractor beam.
DATA: The tractor beam will not be successful. I am decompressing the main shuttlebay.
WORF: We are clear of the distortion.
PICARD: Data, what happened?
DATA: At the last moment, I speculated that three might refer to the number of rank insignia on Commander Riker's uniform. That indicated to me that his suggestion might be the correct course of action.
LAFORGE: Data, you must have picked up a message we sent from the last loop, and stacked the deck in the poker game without realizing it.
DATA: That is possible. I may also have been inadvertently responsible for the unexplained appearances of the number three.
PICARD: Mister Worf, end Red alert. And try to access a Federation time base beacon. Let's see if we can find out how long we've been in this causality loop.
WORF: Time base confirms our chronometers are off by seventeen point four days.
PICARD: Reset them, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by the other vessel. The computer identifies it as the USS Bozeman, a Federation starship, Soyuz class.
LAFORGE: Soyuz class? They haven't been in service in over eighty years.
PICARD: Open a channel.
BATESON (screen): This is Captain Morgan Bateson of the Federation Starship Bozeman. Can we render assistance?
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. We were just going to ask you the same thing.
BATESON (screen): Captain Picard, your vessel is not familiar to us.
PICARD: Captain, have you any idea what has just happened?
BATESON (screen): Our sensors detected a temporal distortion. Then your ship appeared. We nearly hit you.
PICARD: The Enterprise has been caught in temporal causality loop, and I suspect that something similar may have happened to you.
BATESON (screen): You must be mistaken. We left starbase only three weeks ago.
PICARD: Captain, do you know what year this is?
BATESON (screen): Of course I do. It's twenty two seventy eight.
PICARD: Perhaps you should beam aboard our ship. There's something we need to discuss.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45703.9. We are en route to Earth, where it will be my pleasant duty to deliver this year's commencement address at Starfleet Academy. I'm also looking forward to seeing Wesley Crusher again. His flight team will perform a demonstration near Saturn that will be transmitted to the graduation ceremonies.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, Starfleet Academy is requesting an update on our estimated arrival.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: We should be arriving at Earth in ten hours sixteen minutes, sir.
PICARD: Please inform the Academy, Mister Worf, and send my regards to Superintendant Brand.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI: Do you know Admiral Brand?
PICARD: We've met a few times. She's a formidable woman.
RIKER: Sounds like my superintendent. When I was at the Academy, we had a Vulcan Superintendent who had memorized the personnel files of every single cadet. He knew everything about them. It was like having your parents around all the time.
PICARD: My superintendent was a Betazoid, a full telepath. When he sent for you to his office, he didn't have to ask what you'd done.
RIKER: You got called into the superintendent's office? That's a story I'd like to hear.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed again by the Academy. It is Admiral Brand.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Sir, she is requesting a private channel.
PICARD: In my Ready room.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Admiral Brand. What can I do for you?
BRAND (screen): Hello, Captain. I know you're a close friend of the Crusher family.
PICARD: Yes.
BRAND (screen): I wanted to inform you personally. There's been an accident.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: He had second degree burns on his chest and multiple fractures of his right arm, but he's going to be fine.
CRUSHER: Have they completed the regeneration series?
PICARD: I'm not certain.
CRUSHER: Wesley's allergic to metorapan treatments. I think they'll have to use a bicaridine substitute. I should send his complete records to the Academy infirmary. Of course, they probably have them already, but you can't be too sure.
PICARD: Beverly. He's fine.
CRUSHER: I know he's fine. I know he's fine. How did it happen?
PICARD: Apparently, his squadron was practicing on the Academy flight range near Saturn. they were flying a close formation. There was a collision. All five ships were destroyed. Four of the cadets managed to transport out. One didn't make it.
CRUSHER: Do you know who it was?
PICARD: Yes. His name was Joshua Albert.
CRUSHER: Wesley spoke of him. They were friends. Wesley was so excited to make the flight team. Of course, I was a little nervous, but I was proud of him. I always knew there was a chance that something like this might
PICARD: Beverly, Wesley's alive and he's well.

[Academy hearing room]
BRAND: There was very little left to salvage from the wreckage. We did recover one of the ships' data recorders, but it was badly damaged. We're attempting to restore the information, but that will take some time. Standard procedure calls for an immediate investigation by two command level officers. Captain Satelk and I will be taking depositions from Nova Squadron at fifteen hundred hours today. Commander Albert. I'm sure that everyone in this room joins me in expressing my deepest sympathies to you on the tragic loss of your son. There will be a memorial service for Cadet Albert this evening in the west garden. It has been suggested that we should cancel the graduation ceremonies in the light of what's happened. Commander Albert and I have discussed this and we've agreed that commencement should go forward as planned. The cadets should know that even after a tragedy like this, there are still duties to perform and life continues. Thank you all for coming.
BRAND: It's good to see you again, Captain. I wish it were under better circumstances.
PICARD: This is an unhappy way to begin commencement. If you require any assistance, then the Enterprise is at your disposal.
BRAND: I'm sure we'll be able to conduct the investigation, but thank you for your offer.

[Wesley's room]
CRUSHER: Wes. I was so worried about you.
PICARD: How are you feeling, Wesley?
WESLEY: Not bad. The arm's a little sore.
CRUSHER: We were very sorry to hear about Joshua.
PICARD: Would you like to talk about it?
WESLEY: No. I don't think so. No, thank you. I know you're trying to be helpful, sir, but it seems like that's all I've talked about for the last two days. I don't want to go through it again.
PICARD: I understand. But I just want you to know I'm available if you should change your mind.
WESLEY: Thank you sir.
WESLEY: Hi.
LOCARNO: Hi.
LOCARNO: Captain, sir.
PICARD: At ease, Cadet.
WESLEY: This is my squadron leader, Nicholas Locarno. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. My mother, Doctor Beverly Crusher.
LOCARNO: Hello, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Hello.
LOCARNO: Captain Picard.
PICARD: Mister Locarno.
LOCARNO: I came by to see if Wes had healed up all right.
CRUSHER: And how are you feeling, Nicholas?
LOCARNO: I'm okay. I just never lost anyone under my command before.
PICARD: I'm afraid that never gets easier.
WESLEY: Captain, Mom, will you excuse us please? Nick and I have some things we need to talk about.
CRUSHER: Of course. Let me know if you need anything.
WESLEY: I will.
PICARD: I'll see you at the inquiry. Good to meet you, Mister Locarno.
LOCARNO: You too, sir.
LOCARNO: The inquiry is scheduled for fifteen hundred hours. Are you ready?
WESLEY: I think so.
LOCARNO: Don't worry about it, Wes. Everything's going to be all right so long as we stick together.

[Academy gardens]
BOOTHBY (voiceover): Hey! Can't you see that's a flower bed?
CADET (voiceover): Sorry. I'm really sorry.
PICARD: Boothby? Jean-Luc Picard, class of twenty seven.
BOOTHBY: I know that. What happened to your hair?
PICARD: How are you?
BOOTHBY: I'm pretty damned cranky, thank you. I've already replanted this bed four times this week.
PICARD: Let me give you a hand.
BOOTHBY: You?
PICARD: I've acquired an interest over the years.
BOOTHBY: Well, don't plant 'em too deep. The stems
PICARD: Will rot.
BOOTHBY: Captain Picard. Of the Enterprise, no less. And giving the commencement address.
PICARD: You sound surprised.
BOOTHBY: Surprised? Uh, uh. Nothing you ever did surprised me, son. Except that time you caught that Ligonian with a reverse body lift and pinned him in the first fourteen seconds of the match. Didn't think you had it in you.
PICARD: Well, it was all in the legs, all that running I did. Boothby.
BOOTHBY: Hmmm?
PICARD: I don't think I ever. I don't think I ever told you how much I appreciate.
BOOTHBY: There's nothing to tell.
PICARD: Yes, there is. I just wanted to, while I was here. Look, you know as well as I do I would never have graduated if you
BOOTHBY: You made a mistake. There isn't a man among us who hasn't been young enough to make one.
PICARD: Nevertheless.
BOOTHBY: You did what you had to do. You did what you thought was best. I just made sure that you listened to yourself.
PICARD: At the time I thought you were a mean-spirited, vicious old man.
BOOTHBY: I was. And by the way, I was about the same age you are now.
PICARD: I didn't speak to you for months.
BOOTHBY: You needed to get your bearings. I knew that. The important thing is, what you did with your life afterwards. Seems you did okay. That's thanks enough for me.
PICARD: Did you know the boy from Nova Squadron who was killed?
BOOTHBY: Josh Albert? Yeah. Crusher, Hajar, Sito, Locarno. I know them all.

[Wesley's room]
LOCARNO: You nervous?
SITO: No. Yes.
LOCARNO: That's okay. So am I. But we're going to be all right. We've got some tough times ahead but we've always come through for each other. Whatever happens, I want you all to know that leading this team has been the high point of my years at the Academy. No one could have asked for a better team, or better friends. Let's go.

[Academy hearing room]
LOCARNO: At this point, we accelerated and executed a starboard turn of twenty seven degrees. We came out of the turn on course for Titan.
BRAND: And you were still in the lead position?
LOCARNO: Yes, sir.
BRAND: Continue.
LOCARNO: As we entered Titan's gravitational sphere, I gave the signal to tighten up and move into a diamond slot formation. Remaining in the diamond formation, we executed a low apogee turn around Titan then began a z-plus twenty five degree climb in preparation for a Yeager loop.
LOCARNO: Approximately nine seconds later, Cadet Albert's ship collided with Cadet Hajar's. We had less than two seconds to activate our emergency transporters and beam to the evac stations at Mimas. Everyone made it except Josh.
BRAND: Thank you, Mister Locarno. Cadet Hajar.
BRAND: As team navigator, you filed a flight plan with the Academy Range Officer before the exercise. Correct?
HAJAR: Yes, sir.
BRAND: Did Nova Squadron deviate from that flight plan after you entered the Saturn range?
HAJAR: No, sir.
BRAND: Then how do you explain the fact that the low apogee turn around Titan was at least two thousand kilometers closer to the moon than indicated in your plan?
HAJAR: We were still within flight safety parameters, sir.
BRAND: That was not my question, Cadet.
HAJAR: We had discussed changing our approach after I filed the flight plan. The final decision was made en route to Saturn. I didn't consider it significant enough to mention here. I apologize for the confusion, sir. I should have been more precise.
SATELK: Did you see Mister Albert's ship break formation before it collided with your ship?
HAJAR: No, sir. My first indications of trouble was when my proximity alarm went off.
SATELK: You may be seated. Did any of you see the collision take place?
LOCARNO: No, sir.
SATELK: Cadet Sito, you were in the tail position, therefore you should have seen any sign of trouble from Cadet Albert. Yet you saw nothing?
SITO: That is correct, sir.
SATELK: Did your attention falter?
SITO: No, sir. I was flying solely on sensor readings at the time. I did not have any visual contact with Cadet Albert's ship when he broke formation.
SATELK: Sensor readings?
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
PICARD: Well, it's unusual to fly on sensors alone in this type of maneuver. The pilot relies on visual clues from the other ships to maintain formation.
BRAND: If you were flying on sensors alone, perhaps you could tell us the orientation of his ship before the collision.
SITO: I don't know, sir.
BRAND: You were flying a ship, traveling eighty thousand kph, with Cadet Albert's ship less than ten meters away and you don't know what his orientation was?
SITO: I don't remember, sir.
LOCARNO: Sir, may I?
BRAND: Go ahead.
LOCARNO: Admiral, Josh was a good pilot but lately he'd been having difficulties. He'd get nervous during close fly-bys and pull away in the final seconds. His formation flying was a little erratic.
BRAND: And you didn't report this to anyone?
LOCARNO: No, sir, I didn't. We'd flown together a long time. I thought he could handle it if I gave him a chance. I was wrong.
BRAND: Then you are saying that the accident was Cadet Albert's fault?
LOCARNO: I think Josh got frightened and tried to pull out of the turn prematurely, and then crashed into Cadet Hajar. Josh was our friend. We didn't want him to be remembered as someone who panicked.
BRAND: Please be seated. I'm very disturbed by what I've heard here today. By your own admission, you allowed your teammate to fly when you knew he was having difficulties maintaining formation. That demonstrates a serious lack of judgment. I am also disturbed by the fact that you did not come forward with this information immediately. We should have the first data from Mister Crusher's flight recorder tonight. We will reconvene at thirteen hundred hours tomorrow.
LOCARNO: Everything's fine. Trust me.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain. The Academy has one of the best reconstructive analysis labs in Starfleet. I'm not sure there's much we could contribute to the investigation.
PICARD: Yes, that may well be. But Wesley's one of our own.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir. We'll get right on it.
PICARD: Good. I've spoken with Admiral Brand and she's agreed to allow us access to all of the physical evidence and testimony. Thank you, gentlemen.

[Wesley's room]
SITO: You shouldn't have said it, Nick. Josh wasn't responsible for what happened.
LOCARNO: I had to do something.
WESLEY: You said we wouldn't have to lie to them. We all agreed not to lie to them.
LOCARNO: I didn't lie. Everything I said was the truth.
WESLEY: The accident was not Josh's fault.
LOCARNO: Look, he was my friend too, Wes. I worked to get him on this team. But the truth is, he panicked.
WESLEY: We don't know that.
LOCARNO: Of course we do. None of us has wanted to say it out loud, but we've all had the same thought. Haven't we?
HAJAR: He must have pulled away too soon. I think he got scared.
LOCARNO: Sito?
LOCARNO: Wes, I know you want to protect his memory, We all do. But we have to look out for ourselves now. What do you want us to do, walk in and tell them everything that happened?
SITO: We might as well turn in our uniforms and start packing our bags.
LOCARNO: Are we ready for that? We'll take this one step at a time. This is the preliminary report from your flight recorder. It was so badly damaged in the crash, that the lab could only retrieve a third of the total telemetry on the recorder. And all of it is before the collision. There's no problem here.
WESLEY: I don't know if I can do this, Nick.
SITO: You don't have to lie. Just don't volunteer any new information.
LOCARNO: The first night I met you, Wes, I knew I wanted you on this squad. You, more than any of the rest, would understand what it means to be able to count on someone, because you've been out there, putting yourself on the line. You know you've got to be able to count on the people on your team, because your life is in their hands, and their lives are in yours. We made a promise to each other right in the beginning, that we'd stick together. We were Nova Squadron. Nobody else could say that. And even after we graduated, we'd try to get posted to the same duty. We were going to be a team for a long time. Josh can't be a part of those plans anymore, but I think he would still want us to be a team. What do you think?

[Academy hearing room]
ALBERT: Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Sir.
ALBERT: At ease. Am I interrupting?
WESLEY: No. I was just going over my deposition for tomorrow.
ALBERT: They told me you'd be here. I found this in Josh's room. I think it belongs to you.
WESLEY: Our ski trip. Josh and I went to Calgary last month. He forgot his sweater so he borrowed one of mine.
ALBERT: He told me you helped him with his classes.
WESLEY: A little. He only needed help in statistical mechanics.
ALBERT: If Josh had a weakness, it was mathematics.
WESLEY: No, he could do it. He just didn't like to.
ALBERT: His mother and I thought he'd never get out of calculus. Then he found out what the Academy entrance requirements were like. That turned him around. He stayed after class, got a tutor. He really worked hard. Never gave up on anything. And he had a lot of respect for you, and everybody on the team. I realize it was his fault. That everybody could have been killed. And I want to say that, I want to say I'm sorry. I'm sorry that he let you down.

[Academy hearing room]
BRAND: Are you ready, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Yes, sir. This is the beginning of our run toward Titan. I'm on the right wing.
BRAND: Where is Mister Albert at this point?
WESLEY: He was on my port quarter, approximately fifty meters away. We've just received the signal to begin the diamond slot formation. That's Cadet Locarno coming into view. We're in a twenty degree turn around Titan. We should be coming out of Titan's gravity well about now.
BRAND: That is the extent of the data we were able to recover from the flight recorder. Mister Crusher, would you describe what happened after you left orbit of Titan?
WESLEY: Once we cleared the moon, Mister Locarno led us into a Yeager loop. Approximately nine seconds later, my proximity alarm went off. I tried to veer away, but it was too late and I was hit. I lost control of my ship. A power coupling exploded in my cockpit. I don't know how, but I managed to activate my escape transporter, and the next thing I remember is finding myself on the emergency evac station on Mimas with the rest of the squadron, except Josh.
BRAND: Do you have anything to add to your testimony?
WESLEY: No, sir.
SATELK: Mister Crusher, will you describe a Yeager loop?
WESLEY: The ships begin in a diamond slot formation, and climb and loop backwards at a steep angle, and at the peak of the loop, turn over and accelerate in a new direction.
SATELK: Mister Crusher, did your team remain in formation throughout the loop?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
BRAND: I want you to be absolutely clear on this point, Mister Crusher. Before the collision, was Nova Squadron in a diamond slot formation?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
SATELK: Computer, display Saturn NavCon file six dash three seven nine. These images were obtained by a navigational control satellite in orbit around Saturn during a standard sensor sweep. Computer, freeze image. Magnify sector gamma three and enhance.
SATELK: This image was recorded when your ships moved briefly into the satellite's sensor range. According to the time index, what you see on the monitor took place seven seconds after Nova Squadron completed the Yeager loop.
BRAND: Mister Crusher, are these ships in a diamond slot formation?
WESLEY: No, sir.
BRAND: What is your explanation, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: I have none, sir.

[Wesley's room]
CRUSHER: Everything's going to be okay, Wesley. There must be an explanation for all this. Data and Geordi are already analyzing the flight recorder and the satellite transmission.
WESLEY: Why?
CRUSHER: There must be something wrong with the satellite data. It might have been tampered with.
WESLEY: Mom.
CRUSHER: Well, there must be some explanation for this. I know you're telling the truth but the satellite data made it look as if you were lying. I've spoken with the other parents. I am going to talk to Admiral Brand and ask her to delay the inquiry
WESLEY: Mom. Don't. You can't do that.
CRUSHER: I'm not going to let them ruin your career, Wesley. You haven't done anything wrong.
WESLEY: Mom, don't try to protect me. Please stay out of this.

[Academy gardens]
BOOTHBY: These weeds keep popping up in the pittosporum. Poor plants don't have a chance to grow.
PICARD: You could use a good herbicide instead of pulling the weeds with your bare hands.
BOOTHBY: And you could explore space on a holodeck instead of a starship.
PICARD: Boothby, tell me some more about Nova Squadron.
BOOTHBY: Not going well, is it.
PICARD: No, it isn't.
BOOTHBY: Do you remember the parrises squares tournament of 'twenty four?
PICARD: The final game against Minsk.
BOOTHBY: It took me three weeks to repair the grounds after the celebration.
PICARD: We had a lot to celebrate. Our team wasn't supposed to win. We were very proud of them.
BOOTHBY: Well the cadets today are just as proud of the Nova Squadron. The celebration they held after Nova won the Rigel Cup made 'twenty four look like a dinner party. To the other cadets, the members of that team are gods, and that's a hard image to live up to. But Nick Locarno, he watches out for them. He keeps them together. Nick is what makes that team special. He's their coach, surrogate father and best friend all in one. A natural leader. The members of that team love him. If he asks them to do something, they do it, even if it means going right over a cliff.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Report.
LAFORGE: Nothing conclusive. We do know that the collision occurred about four seconds after the satellite images were recorded, but we still don't know how the ships got into the new formation or why the crash occurred.
DATA: We unsuccessfully tried fifty three different computational models in an effort to simulate the movements of the Nova Squadron just prior to the crash.
LAFORGE: There're just too many variables to take into consideration. Speed, attitude, course.
PICARD: Did Wesley's flight recorder indicate that there was anything unusual about the ship or the way it was operating?
LAFORGE: The starboard power flow was fluctuating.
DATA: However it was well within operational limits.
LAFORGE: Fluidic pressure in the landing struts was low, but I don't know what difference that would make.
DATA: We did find that Wesley opened his coolant interlock just before beginning the maneuver around Titan.
LAFORGE: That is a bit unusual. Normally the interlock is closed unless you're performing a check on the engine coolant levels. But there's no evidence Wesley was performing that sort of check.
PICARD: Filling the primary coolant tanks requires an open interlock but that can only be performed in a maintenance bay. Is there any other reason for opening the valve?
LAFORGE: It's the first step in purging the plasma exhaust.
DATA: That procedure would be extremely hazardous while the ship was in flight.
LAFORGE: Yeah, the engine would probably ignite the plasma.
PICARD: Ignite the plasma. That's exactly what they were trying to do.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Captain.
PICARD: Can you tell me what maneuver this is?
WESLEY: It's a Kolvoord Starburst, sir.
PICARD: Five ships crossing within ten meters of each other and igniting their plasma trails. One of the most spectacular and difficult demonstrations of precision flying. It hasn't been performed at the Academy team in over a hundred years. Do you know why?
WESLEY: It was banned by the Academy following a training accident, sir.
PICARD: An accident in which all five cadets lost their lives. I think that Nicholas Locarno wanted to end his Academy career in a blaze of glory. That he convinced the four of you to learn the Kolvoord Starburst for the commencement demonstration. If it worked, you would thrill the assembled guests and Locarno would graduate as a living legend. Only it didn't work, and Joshua Albert paid the price. Am I correct? Cadet, I asked you a question. Am I correct?
WESLEY: I choose not to answer, sir.
PICARD: You choose not to answer? But you've already given an answer to the inquiry, and that answer was a lie.
WESLEY: I said the accident occurred after the loop. It did.
PICARD: What you neglected to mention was that following the loop your team attempted a maneuver that was the direct cause of the crash. You told the truth up to a point. But a lie of omission is still a lie. Do you remember the day you first came aboard this ship? Your mother brought you on the Bridge.
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: You even sat in my chair. I was annoyed. Presumptuous child playing on my ship. But I never forgot how you already knew every control, every display. You behaved as though you belonged on the Bridge. And then later when I decided to make you an acting ensign, I was convinced you could be an outstanding officer. I've never questioned that conviction, until now. The first duty of every Starfleet officer is to the truth. Whether it's scientific truth, or historical truth, or personal truth. It is the guiding principle upon which Starfleet is based. If you can't find it within yourself to stand up and tell the truth about what happened you don't deserve to wear that uniform. I'm going to make this simple for you, Mister Crusher. Either you come forward and tell Admiral Brand what really took place, or I will.
WESLEY: Captain
PICARD: Dismissed.

[Wesley's room]
LOCARNO: Your message said it was urgent.
WESLEY: They know, Nick. They know what we did.
LOCARNO: Calm down. Calm down. Now tell me exactly what happened.
WESLEY: Captain Picard called me to the Enterprise. when I got there he told me that he knows. The Kolvoord maneuver, the cover up, everything. He said that if I didn't come forward and tell the truth now, he would.
LOCARNO: You said he'd figured it out. Does he have any evidence?
WESLEY: No, but he knew exactly how it happened.
LOCARNO: Captain Picard doesn't know anything. He has a theory. So let him tell the inquiry what he thinks happened. They'll ask us, is it true? We'll say, no, sir. There's no evidence, so there's no case. We'll get off with a reprimand.
WESLEY: I can't call Captain Picard a liar.
LOCARNO: Wesley, we have to hang on just a little longer, then this will all be over.
WESLEY: It's wrong, Nick.
LOCARNO: Wesley.
WESLEY: No. I'm going to tell them what happened.
LOCARNO: You're going to tell them what happened? You? Alone? Are going to decide what happens to me, to Sito, to Jean? You're going to decide that?
WESLEY: I'm not going to lie to them again, Nick. I can't live with it.
LOCARNO: You can't lie to them. You can't live with this. You have to tell them what happened. Who the hell are you?
WESLEY: Nick!
LOCARNO: You're going to turn us in?
WESLEY: Now wait a minute.
LOCARNO: No, you wait a minute. He got to you, didn't he? Picard told you some big story about duty and honor. It must've been a pretty good speech to make you turn your back on your friends.
WESLEY: We're Starfleet cadets. We have a duty to the truth.
LOCARNO: What about your duty to your friends? I got you on this team. I gave you a chance when there were upperclassmen waiting in line. I said, He won't let us down. He was on the Enterprise. He knows what it's like to trust somebody with his life. I guess I was wrong.
WESLEY: If we all come forward together and tell Admiral Brand
LOCARNO: We don't want to come forward. Sito, Jean and me, we don't have a problem with this. But if you do, then resign your appointment to the Academy and walk away. Don't make us pay for your guilty conscience.
WESLEY: You'd let me do that? You'd let me throw my career away just to save your neck?
LOCARNO: To save the team. That's more important than you, and it's more important than me. And if I was in your place I'd do it without hesitation. But that's me.

[Academy hearing room]
BRAND: Captain Satelk and I have gone over your testimony and the physical evidence from the crash. Your statements cannot be reconciled with the data collected from the NavCon satellite. Your unwillingness to offer any explanation for this contradiction is disappointing, and raises suspicion. We cannot escape the conclusion that either the data is faulty in some way, or you have lied to us. However suspicion is not proof and I have no proof that you have lied to this inquiry. Therefore, if no further evidence is presented, I have no choice but to close this investigation. For filing an inaccurate flight plan, and for allowing Cadet Albert to fly when you knew he was having difficulties, I am ordering a formal reprimand placed on each of your permanent records. I am also revoking your flight privileges. This inquiry is closed.
WESLEY: Sir. I would like to add something to my testimony.
BRAND: Proceed, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Yesterday I testified that the crash occurred following a Yeager loop. That is not entirely true. We performed a loop, and afterwards broke formation and attempted a Kolvoord Starburst. We knew it was prohibited. We knew it was dangerous, but we wanted to do something spectacular for the commencement demonstration. We pushed Josh into it and he wasn't ready. We thought we could do it. We thought we could do anything. We were wrong, and Josh died. Josh didn't let us down, sir. It wasn't his fault.
BRAND: Mister Locarno, you are the leader of Nova Squadron. Do you have anything to say? Mister Locarno?
LOCARNO: No, sir.

[Academy gardens]
PICARD: Mister Locarno has been expelled.
WESLEY: They should've expelled all of us.
PICARD: They very nearly did. Mister Locarno made an impassioned plea for the rest of you. He said that he'd used his influence as squadron leader to convince you to attempt the Kolvoord maneuver and then to cover up the truth. He asked to take full responsibility.
WESLEY: He did exactly what he said he would. He protected the team. I feel awful. I've let down everyone. My mother, my friends, you.
PICARD: You should feel bad, and you will pay for what you've done. Admiral Brand has decided that in addition to a formal reprimand, your academic credits for the past year will be canceled and you will not advance with your class.
WESLEY: I understand.
PICARD: It's not going to be easy, staying here on campus, everyone knowing what you did. You have difficult times ahead.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: You knew what you had to do. I just made sure you listened to yourself. Goodbye, Cadet.
WESLEY: Goodbye, Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forward tubes armed and ready, Captain.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: A direct hit, sir.
DATA: The asteroid has shattered. However, the core is still intact and still on a collision course with Tessen Three.
RIKER: Is it big enough to cause a threat?
DATA: Yes, sir. It is of sufficient size and density to cause planetwide damage.
PICARD: Time to impact.
DATA: It will reach the upper atmosphere in forty four seconds and impact on the planet eleven seconds later.
RIKER: Ready torpedoes.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Sir, the core is composed of nitrium and chrondite. It is unlikely another photon torpedo will be of any effect.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a tractor beam.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Thirty seconds to impact.
WORF: Captain, I am unable to get a positive lock with the tractor beam. There is magnetic field interference emanating from the core materials.
PICARD: Activate a deflector dish. If we project a particle beam, we may be able to produce a disruptive nuclear effect within the core.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Impact in seventeen seconds.
WORF: Particle beam activated. The target has been destroyed, Captain.
DATA: The remaining debris is of no threat to the planet, sir.
PICARD: Well done, everyone . Ensign, put us back on course for the Moselina system. Warp four as soon as we're clear of the debris field.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
WORF: My instructions were clear.
ALEXANDER: They were not!
WORF: Before he was allowed to play, he was to place his soiled clothing in the garment reprocessor.
ALEXANDER: I was not!
TROI: I sense a touch of hostility here, gentlemen.
WORF: You were specifically told that.
ALEXANDER: You told me that yesterday, not today!
TROI: If I may suggest
WORF: You know very well the same rules apply today that
TROI: Please! Why not simply draw up a contract which clearly defines the duties of each family member.
ALEXANDER: You mean he tells me what he wants and I have to do it.
TROI: No, I means you both agree to your responsibilities. And when you've done the things that you've agreed to do, then you've earned the privilege to doing the things that you want to do. When he's cleaned his room, for instance, then perhaps he's earned a visit to the holodeck to fight his alien monsters.
WORF: You suggest bribery.
TROI: I suggest working out an equitable system with the rules clearly spelled out. For the child and the parent. You must make a list of your responsibilities, too. What would you like your father to promise, Alexander?
ALEXANDER: No yelling.
WORF: I do I do not yell.
TROI: Well then you should have no trouble with that part. Why not go back to your quarters and talk this thing over? Decide on which points each of you wants in the contract.
WORF: Very well.
TROI: One day you'll learn to be glad your father cared enough about you to insist on rules. It may be hard to imagine right now, but eventually, most children come to appreciate their parents.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Counselor Troi. Your mother's just come aboard.
TROI: On the other hand
LWAXANA (voiceover): Deanna, my dear! It's Mother!

[Transporter room]
LWAXANA: Oh, I've got such deliciously exciting news, you're going to be absolutely thrilled! I'm getting married!

[Ten Forward]
LWAXANA: You know, with just a bit of redecorating here and there, this Ten Forward room should make a very nice wedding hall.
TROI: I beg your pardon?
LWAXANA: Where else, my little one, but here amongst all my good friends and in the presence of my adored daughter.
TROI: Mother, where did you, when did you meet this man? Who is he? I mean, marriage? When did all this happen?
LWAXANA: My poor, plodding, little Deanna, with her questions, questions, questions. Wherever did you inherit such pedestrian genes? What matters, my little one, is that your mother's happy.
TROI: Mother, if you're happy, then I'm happy for you. I only asked who he is, and where you met him. Those are not unusual questions.
LWAXANA: He's such a wonderful man, and he has such good breeding, I tell you, he's absolute perfection.
TROI: Who is he?
LWAXANA: He's Campio, Third Minister to the Conference Of Judges on the planet Kostolain. Royalty, my little one, naturally.
TROI: Naturally. I didn't know you'd ever been to Kostolain. Or was he on some diplomatic mission to Betazed?
LWAXANA: Well, neither, actually. You see, we haven't exactly met yet, really. Oh, but the profiles we've exchanged. Why, they're in such accord that you could weep, my little one. You would weep at the harmony between us.
TROI: Mother, don't you think it would be a good idea if you actually met the man you're going to marry before committing to spend the rest of your life with him?
LWAXANA: Deanna, I love you, but you do make everything sound like an epitaph.
ALEXANDER: I don't want to agree.
WORF: But you have to agree. That is what an agreement is. Counselor Troi, excuse the intrusion, but we're having some difficulty drawing up our contract. Mrs. Troi.
ALEXANDER: He's not fair!
WORF: The boy is unreasonable.
LWAXANA: Well, of course he's unreasonable. He's a child. And such a child. You know, making little boys reasonable only gives them pimples.
TROI: Alexander, this is my mother.
LWAXANA: Alexander! What a wonderful name. You know, I once knew a tall, handsome warrior named Alexander. Oh, he utterly adored me. We went everywhere, simply everywhere. Have you been anywhere yet? Contract? What contract?
TROI: Between father and son. A fair and balanced way to achieve a mutual sense of order.
LWAXANA: Well, how ghastly for you. And you're doing this to your own child, Mister Woof?
TROI: Mother!
WORF: It is Worf, Madam.
LWAXANA: Contracts are usually between people who don't really trust one another. A child who is trusted becomes worthy of that trust.
TROI: Mother, will you kindly stay out of this?
LWAXANA: And if he does not perform his contractual duties, I assume he will be chastised?
WORF: He will be sanctioned, yes.
LWAXANA: And if you fail to perform your duties, what is the child supposed to do about it?
TROI: Mother, will you please
WORF: I? Not perform my duty?!
LWAXANA: Alexander. Now life's true gift is the capacity to enjoy enjoyment. Now, have I arrived too late, or can you still smile?

[Corridor]
PICARD: Married? She's getting married?
RIKER: Yes. If we stay on our present course, we should rendezvous with her intended groom in thirty one hours.
PICARD: I will not continue have that woman continuing to use this ship for her convenience, simply because her daughter happens to be one of my officers.
RIKER: Apparently, Deanna being on board is only part of the reason.
PICARD: The other reason being?
RIKER: She thinks the honor of giving away the bride should fall on you.
PICARD: Permission for an on-board wedding is granted, Number One. Nothing would please me more than to give away Mrs. Troi.

[Troi's office]
LWAXANA: Ah! My little warrior. And how are you this morning? Oh, I see. Being punished for something, are we?
ALEXANDER: It's just my regular time to meet with Counselor Troi. She's not here yet.
LWAXANA: Then you're early. That's very responsible of you.
ALEXANDER: No, I just wanted to be out of my room before
LWAXANA: Before what? Now, if we're to be real friends, we've got to share only the truth.
ALEXANDER: Why?
LWAXANA: Well, for one thing, it's easier. When you tell the truth, you never have to remember later what you lied about. But mostly, a true friend is a person you can always tell the truth to without worrying about it.
ALEXANDER: I wanted to leave before my father got back.
LWAXANA: Oh.
ALEXANDER: I hate him. I wish my mother was here. But she died.
LWAXANA: That's not very fair, is it.
ALEXANDER: All he cares about are rules. I'm supposed to do everything right all the time. I don't know how.
LWAXANA: To tell you the truth, little warrior, neither do I. But, I do know one marvelous thing we can do with rules.
ALEXANDER: I'm supposed to wait for Counselor Troi.
LWAXANA: Exactly.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: I'll bet you've never been to a colony of free spirits.
ALEXANDER: What do they do there?
LWAXANA: Whatever they want. Artists, philosophers, free thinkers and people who don't quite fit other people's rules. Personally, I come for the mud baths. You, oh, you're going to adore the mud baths. Computer? I'm assuming you have the Parallax Colony of Shiralea VI?
COMPUTER: That program is available.
LWAXANA: Oh, good. Then run it for us, dear.

[Holodeck - Shiralea]
ALEXANDER: What's that?
LWAXANA: A Wind Dancer. He stands guard. You see, only those whose hearts are joyous may enter. Come on.
LWAXANA: Fire sculptor. We'll chat with her later if you're not wearing anything flammable.
JUGGLER: Hello. A few of us were just gathering together for our laughing hour. Would you care to come laugh with us?
LWAXANA: Actually, we were about to experience a mud bath.
JUGGLER: Were you? What an idea! My friends and I will join you. One can always laugh in the bath.
ALEXANDER: Do you ever drop one?
JUGGLER: Oh, no. No, no. These are my worlds. I protect them. I am a master of worlds, and they fly only as I wish. We're having guests for laughing hour. Would you care to join us!
YOUNG MAN: We'd love to!
YOUNG WOMAN: No, thank you.
YOUNG MAN: Yes.
YOUNG WOMAN: No.
YOUNG MAN: Why do you always say no when I say yes?
YOUNG WOMAN: I don't.
YOUNG MAN: You just did.
YOUNG WOMAN: There you go again. You are the most negative person!
ALEXANDER: Why are they arguing?
JUGGLER: They're friends. They love contradiction. They thrive on challenge. They flourish in conflict.
ALEXANDER: Then why are they friends?
LWAXANA: Who else are you going to fight with if not your friends?
POET: Hold! What is the lesson for today?
LWAXANA: Damned if we know. We're just here for some fun and a mud bath.
POET: Every moment requires a purpose.
LWAXANA: No, it doesn't.
POET: Every purpose requires a plan.
JUGGLER: He does this every day. Usually while everybody's food gets cold. It's rather boring.
POET: The higher the fewer!
LWAXANA: Well that's a conversation stopper if I ever heard one.
WOMAN: I am not!
MAN: Yes, you are.
WOMAN: I am not.
ALEXANDER: Excuse me! If you're going to argue, you should remember, the higher the fewer.
LWAXANA: So, my little warrior wants to see more in life than just fighting. The mind opens, and in creeps wisdom.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Alexander. Be patient, she says. Come. I can't believe this.
WORF: Isn't Alexander supposed to be with you?
TROI: He didn't show up for his appointment. I assumed he must still be here.
WORF: Computer, what is the location of Alexander Rozhenko?
COMPUTER: Alexander Rozhenko is in holodeck two.
TROI: Is he there alone?
COMPUTER: He is with Lwaxana Troi.

[Holodeck - Shiralea]
POET: To all the creatures within us!
ALEXANDER: All the creatures within us?
LWAXANA: Of course. Every one of us has a thousand different kinds of tiny people inside of us. And some of them want to get out and be wild, some want to be sad, or happy, or inventive or even just go dancing. That's why we all have so many different urges at different times. And all those different little people inside us, we must never be afraid to take them with us wherever we go. I mean, who knows when we may need one of them to pop up and rescue us from ourselves. Variety, my little Alex. The great secret is not the variety of life, it's the variety of us.
JUGGLER: Are we ready for the entertainment?
ALL: Yes. Bring on the entertainment.
TROI: Mother.
LWAXANA: Little one! Mister Woof. Come, join us.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Mother, I'm trying to help the boy learn the value of responsibility. You're not helping by giving him a lot of mixed messages.
LWAXANA: I exposed you to all sorts of mixed messages when you were that age. You still turned out deadly dull. What are you so worried about?
TROI: Among other things, his relationship with his father. No more holodeck, Mother. Please. And why aren't you all absorbed in your wedding plans? It's only three days away.
LWAXANA: I'm letting Mister Homn take care of all the mundane details. He knows my tastes.
TROI: Mother.
LWAXANA: Deanna, there's absolutely nothing to do, you nosey little girl. Campio's already sent me his mother's wedding gown, which Mister Homn is now altering for me. Outside of that there really isn't anything else
TROI: Wedding gown? Mother, stop. You're telling me you're not going to be naked at your own wedding?
LWAXANA: Campio is from a different planet with different traditions. He would not approve of a traditional Betazoid wedding, so I am happily adapting. Now it's as simple as that. I need some tea.
TROI: I can't believe I'm hearing this from the Heir to the Holy Rings of Betazed, holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx.
LWAXANA: Oh, why can't I ever work this replicator?
TROI: Mother, I think it's time you tell me about this mysterious marriage to a man you've never met.
LWAXANA: Computer, some jestral tea, please. Anyway, why shouldn't I get married if I choose to? You make everything into such a mystery. There is no mystery, Deanna, except about this Petrokian sausage. The tea. All I wanted was a cup of tea. Oh dear, I think your replicator's having a nervous collapse.

[Engineering]
DATA: A level-four diagnostic of the food replication systems has failed to detect any faults in the orientation terminals.
LAFORGE: That may be, but we've still got over two hundred reports of malfunctioning replicators.
DATA: There is an energy fluctuation in one of the utility access corridors.
LAFORGE: Well, we'd better look into it, whatever it is, before the captain decides to order dinner.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Yeah, dash six four. Here we are. Some kind of intermittent EM field pattern. Give me a hand with that, will you, Data? There's no plasma leakage, just a little negative ion charging.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
LWAXANA: Bad enough having to wear anything at my own wedding, but this? Perhaps if we lower the bodice? Raise the hemline, then. What a constant joy you are.
LWAXANA: Mister Homn.
LWAXANA: Alexander! My little warrior, come here. Come on. Give me a great big hug. Now, you're not escaping another appointment, are you?
ALEXANDER: No, ma'am.
LWAXANA: Well, I suppose eventually we all have to live up to our obligations. Well now, tell me. What brings you here to brighten my day?
ALEXANDER: I wanted to say I'm sorry if I got you in any trouble.
LWAXANA: That's very sweet, dear, but I really wasn't in any trouble. Until I saw this dress. Ugly, isn't it?
ALEXANDER: What's it for?
LWAXANA: I'm getting married.
ALEXANDER: Why?
LWAXANA: Are you sure my daughter didn't send you? Just a joke. People get married because they want to spend their lives with someone.
ALEXANDER: Their whole life? They must have to like that person a lot.
LWAXANA: Well, if you're young and lucky, it'll be someone you like a lot, yes. And if you're older.
ALEXANDER: Are you very old?
LWAXANA: I'm alone, Alex. And when you do get older and can no longer pick and choose from whatever may come your way, then you do what we call compromise. It keeps you from being afraid.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have traced the failure to a data net interface which routes replicator selections to the correct subprocessors.
LAFORGE: When we opened the panel, we discovered that the interface had been transformed into a gelatinous material that we haven't been able to identify.
WORF: We have an intermittent failure of the inertial damping system.
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign.
RIKER: Primary attitude control has failed. Going to secondary systems.
DATA: We have lost helm control, sir.
RIKER: Try a manual bypass of the damping systems.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Backup generators.
LAFORGE: Coming online now.
PICARD: How long before we regain attitude control?
LAFORGE: We're almost there.
RIKER: Ensign, put us back on course. Let's stay at impulse for now.
PICARD: Did something hit us, Mister Worf?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: The inertial dampers shouldn't fail without kicking in the automatic bypass. I want to know what went wrong. Analysis in thirty minutes.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: The same thing that happened to the replicator happened to the stabilizer. The transfers in both systems were turned into this.
RIKER: Some kind of corrosion?
DATA: We have not yet identified the substance, Commander.
LAFORGE: Whatever it is, it looks like there's been a conversion process, transforming some of the metal into gelatinous residue. But what caused it is a mystery.
PICARD: Replicators and stabilizers. Two totally unrelated systems.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. And we still don't know why the sensors didn't pick up the problems.
RIKER: Let's run a mass spectrometer analysis and find out what this stuff is.
CHIEF (voiceover): Transporter room one to Captain Picard. Minister Campio is beaming on board, sir.
PICARD: I'll be right there. The bridegroom.

[Transporter room]
LWAXANA: Ah, Campio! My dear, your compatibility profile didn't do you justice. I, of course, am Lwaxana, and any introductory compliments you'd care to make will be happily received.
CAMPIO: Indeed, Mrs. Troi. You are even lovelier in person.
LWAXANA: Now that worked just fine.
CAMPIO: Now, now we don't wish to be too familiar at this early juncture.
PICARD: Forgive this tardiness. Ship's business. Minister Campio, Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Welcome aboard.
CAMPIO: I thank you and greet you with appreciation for permitting this wedding aboard your fine vessel.
PICARD: Not at all, sir.
LWAXANA: Campio, may I present my daughter? Deanna Troi, meet, well, your future stepfather, come to think of it.
CAMPIO: Ah, yes. If I recall the profile, you are the ship's counselor?
TROI: I am, sir.
CAMPIO: And my escort, who need not be addressed in this company: Protocol Master Erko.
LWAXANA: Campio? Personally I adore all the ostentation I can get, but, Protocol Master?
CAMPIO: I would not do you nor our benevolent hosts the disservice of failing to ensure that priorities are observed.
LWAXANA: Oh, yes. How very thoughtful.
CAMPIO: After all, it would be unpardonable to simply abandon ourselves to the moment, would it not?
LWAXANA: Unpardonable.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Well, it looks like the only alloy common to both the replicator and the stabilizer is nitrium. Computer, analyze the nitrium content of both the affected stabilizer and replicator.
COMPUTER: There is no nitrium present in the affected stabilizer or replicator.
DATA: There is none present in the residue, either.
LAFORGE: According to the mass spectrometer, the elements in the residue have been broken down into simpler molecular structures.
DATA: That would suggest the nitrium has been organically metabolized.
LAFORGE: Maybe that's it, Data. If a living organism ingested the nitrium.
DATA: This residue would be the waste left behind.
LAFORGE: If that's true, if something's eating away at the nitrium on the ship. That means the dilithium chamber is vulnerable, as well as the power transfer conduits. We'd better get to Engineering.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Ha! Ha!
WORF: Eat, son.
ALEXANDER: Ha!
WORF: What are you doing? What is that noise?
ALEXANDER: Ha! It's my laughing hour. Ha! Ha!
WORF: That is enough, please. It is your dinner hour. Eat.
ALEXANDER: Ha! I promised to meet Mrs. Troi for another lesson in happy wisdom. Ha!
WORF: Will you stop doing that, please? Alexander, eat your food. Wisdom will wait, I assure you.
ALEXANDER: I promised. Should I break my promise, Father?
WORF: A Klingon ever breaks his word.
WORF: Where are you going?
ALEXANDER: You said no Klingon ever breaks his word.
WORF: I did not mean now. Now just sit down and eat.
ALEXANDER: I don't understand, Father. You're confusing me.
WORF: Understand later. Just eat.
ALEXANDER: Father? The higher, the fewer.

[Lwaxana's quarters]
CAMPIO: I don't wish to be authoritative, my dear, but Master Erko says that now is our proper time for discussion of certain details.
LWAXANA: Well, I certainly don't wish to be considered anti-Erko, dear, but I did promise Alexander one more holodeck trip. Come along, my little love.
CAMPIO: Surely there'll be other occasions for you to spend time with the boy.
LWAXANA: My goodness, Campio. You and I are going to have the rest of our lives. I'll tell you what. I'll be back here with you in one hour exactly, all right?
ERKO: Minister, the woman should not be addressing you in the familiar.
TROI: Mother, we have to talk.
LWAXANA: Yes, we certainly do, dear, but not just now. Well, how, er how do I address him?
TROI: Mother, we've come for Alexander. Please, forgive the intrusion.
ERKO: Preferably he should be called by his ministerial title.
LWAXANA: Ah. I'll remember. Oh, Mister Homn. You make everybody comfortable until we get back. Especially the Minister, here. Now, I'll be back. One hour, darling. I'll see you then.
WORF: Mrs. Troi, it is Alexander's dinner hour.
LWAXANA: How thoughtless of me. I guess we'll just have to have a little picnic before our mud bath.
CAMPIO: We have business to deal with here. Leaving is simply not acceptable.
LWAXANA: Oh, well can't we just pretend it's acceptable? We'll be back.
CAMPIO: You are missing the point.
WORF: Alexander, you will return to our quarters and have dinner.
ALEXANDER: But we're going to go to the holodeck.
TROI: Mother, you're undermining every effort we're trying to make here.
LWAXANA: Don't be absurd. You poor dear, don't they ever let you change those colorless outfits?
ERKO: It is essential that we begin a discussion of the wedding procedures now.
LWAXANA: Oh, Minister, darling, perhaps you and the Jerko here can come with us.
CAMPIO: Lwaxana, this exceeds all boundaries.
LWAXANA: Oh. Well, half hour, then. No longer, I promise. Mister Homn, your duties.
CAMPIO: Counselor Troi, have you no influence?
TROI: Ha!
ALEXANDER: Ha!
CAMPIO: Lwaxana, if you will remain, I may allow the boy to stay
ERKO: Definitely not!
WORF: Definitely not. My son is to return to quarters.
ERKO: Nor may a servant be present during a prenuptial consultation.
TROI: Well, sir, I'm afraid even the bride won't be present for this one.

[Engineering]
DATA: The dilithium chamber shows no anomalous readings.
LAFORGE: So far, these transfer conduits are clean, too. Hold on, I'm getting something here. There's a severe energy fluctuation in this access panel.

[Holodeck - Shiralea]
ALEXANDER: What happened?
JUGGLER: I was just juggling and I happened to catch one in my mouth. It tasted good, so I ate it. Before I knew it, I'd eaten up every one of my worlds. It never occurred to me that once they were gone, I'd have nothing left to juggle. If you ever have a world, plan ahead. Don't eat it.
LWAXANA: Well, now. Almost time to get back.
ALEXANDER: Are you sad?
LWAXANA: Of course not. I'm about to be a bride.
ALEXANDER: You know that man you're going to marry? He would never come and take a mud bath, would he.
LWAXANA: Oh, he might. Probably not.
ALEXANDER: You know, maybe this would be a good time to get one of those little people that live inside of you to come out and tell you what to do, or help you, or something.
LWAXANA: Alexander, what are you talking about?
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry.
LWAXANA: No. No, don't you dare be sorry.
ALEXANDER: What's wrong?
LWAXANA: Come along, Alexander. Let's not leave everyone waiting for us.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Once we saw that photonic trail moving through the wall, we realized we must be dealing with a metal parasite of some kind.
DATA: We believe the parasites came through the ship's hull after we destroyed the asteroid near Tessen Three.
PICARD: Are they attacking anything other than nitrium alloy?
LAFORGE: No, sir, not that we can tell. But we've got nitrium everywhere. The computers, the life support, the ventilation, the engines, even the dilithium chamber.
PICARD: Mister Data, the asteroid we destroyed. That was rich in nitrium.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And that asteroid came from the Pelloris Field. If the rest of that field is rich in nitrium, it would make a natural feeding ground.
LAFORGE: We should think about going back there. The parasites could possibly be lured back to the asteroids for a meal that's more appealing than we are.
PICARD: Mister Data, how long to the field?
DATA: At warp nine, five hours twenty minutes, sir.
PICARD: Picard to the Bridge
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here, sir.
PICARD: Set a course for the Pelloris asteroid field, warp nine.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, with our sensors unable to detect the parasites and given the speed with which they appear to be moving through the ship
PICARD: We may not have five hours and twenty minutes. I'm aware of that. How can we slow them down?
DATA: In several cases, an exanogen gas barrier has been known to slow the progress of metal parasites.
PICARD: They don't like cold, eh? Make it so.
LAFORGE: The problem is finding them. As soon as we spot an energy fluctuation, they've already consumed all the nitrium and have moved on.
LAFORGE: Primary power systems are going down. I've rerouted to the secondary generators.
PICARD: Inform the Bridge. Mister Data, with me.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. Commander, do you have any suggestions on how we could encourage the parasites to leave the ship once we reach the Pelloris Field?
DATA: If we reconfigure a particle beam with a high concentration of nitrium, and project it toward one of the asteroids.
PICARD: Then they would follow the beam like a trail of breadcrumbs. Very well.
DATA: Turbolift velocity is beginning to fluctuate, Captain.
PICARD: Computer, stop at next level. Computer, acknowledge.
DATA: We have reached the bridge, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Number One.
RIKER: Ventilation and life support are failing at random spots all over the ship.
WORF: Captain, we've dropped to warp five point seven.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
PICARD: What's happening, Mister La Forge? We're losing speed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The parasites must've gotten into the primary warp controllers, Captain. Trying to do a bypass patch to isolate the backup controllers but it looks like warp six is about the best I'm going to be able to give you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: At that speed, Mister La Forge, there won't be a ship left to reach the Pelloris Field. Do what you have to.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Working on it, sir.
DATA: Captain, we're losing life support on decks eleven and twelve.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have security evacuate all personnel from those decks.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engineering to Bridge. We've got warp six point five but I don't know how much more coaxing

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We can do here.
PICARD: We need more speed than that, Commander.
LAFORGE (voiceover): The matter-antimatter

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Injectors are failing. I'm rerouting to secondary injector power now. Watch the antimatter containment for any system failure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Atmospheric systems are down twenty seven percent. We're going below tolerable oxygen limits.
WORF: We must evacuate decks twenty through twenty four, Captain.
PICARD: Make it so. Shut down life support to those decks.
RIKER: Direct all evacuees to decks nine and ten.
PICARD: Divert emergency life support to those decks.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Time to asteroid field?
DATA: If we maintain our current speed, two hours, twenty three minutes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, the rest of us may lose consciousness. If we do, it will be your job to execute the plan as discussed.
DATA: Aye, sir.
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at thirty four percent. Estimated breach in one minute.
DATA: Computer, transfer power from warp engines to life support.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
DATA: Activate Bussard collector.
COMPUTER: Activated. Breach of dilithium chamber in forty seconds.
DATA: Reconfigure hydrogen plasma mixture to include thirty percent nitrium.
COMPUTER: Mixture complete.
DATA: Project emitter beam, heading zero two four mark zero four one.
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at twenty eight percent and holding.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The plan was successful, sir.
PICARD: Well done. Mister Worf, coordinate your teams with Doctor Crusher and Commander La Forge. Assess damage and injury.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45733.6. Temporary repairs to the ship have been completed. Our attention now turns to matters of a more festive nature.

[Ten Forward]
ERKO: This is intolerable.
RIKER: You'd think she'd at least get to her own wedding on time.
ERKO: Minister! Minister! This is infamous. Infamous! We leave immediately!

[Holodeck - Shiralea]
LWAXANA: Ah, heavenly. Every pore in my body tingles with contentment. Isn't it wonderful how things work out, Alexander? I wanted to teach you how to grab the joys of living, and you turned around and taught me not to let go of them. How very mutual.
TROI: We still have to learn how to live in the real world, Mother. All of us.
LWAXANA: She's absolutely right, Alexander. But only when necessary.
WORF: You're just supposed to sit here?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45761.3. In an effort to bring an end to their centuries-long war, Krios and Valt Minor have agreed to a Ceremony of Reconciliation, to be held aboard the Enterprise at a point midway between their two systems.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I apologize for the delay in our arrival, Ambassador Briam. We had to stop at Harod Four to pick up a group of stranded miners.
BRIAM: Please, Captain, we are grateful that the Federation has taken as much interest as it has in this matter.
PICARD: Was Commander La Forge able to provide you with the special cargo handling provisions you requested?
BRIAM: Indeed he was. However, until we reach the rendezvous with the Valtese, may I ask that the cargo bay be declared off-limits to all but the most essential personnel?
PICARD: I trust, Ambassador, that this cargo is in no way dangerous?
BRIAM: Oh, no, nothing of the sort. I'm cautious because it's quite fragile, and quite irreplaceable.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we've just picked up a distress call from a Ferengi shuttle.
PICARD: Set a course to intercept.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
BRIAM: Captain, the timing of our ceremony with Alrik is critical. It cannot be delayed.
PICARD: We'll be at the rendezvous on schedule, don't worry. Excuse me.

[Bridge]
DATA: The Ferengi report their containment field is collapsing.
WORF: Within visual range, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Their reactor core is unstable, Captain.
PICARD: How many on board?
DATA: Two, sir.
RIKER: Bridge to transporter room three. Boost your output and lock on to the two Ferengi on board the shuttle.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): We may need to attempt a long range transport.
CREWWOMAN: Standing by.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Energize.

[Transporter room]
OFFICER: Got them, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Worf, escort our Ferengi guests to quarters. Not too close to mine.
WORF: Understood.

[Corridor]
WORF: Unless you can arrange your own transport, you will have to remain on the Enterprise until we complete our mission.
QOL: That will not be a problem.
LENOR: We are in no hurry.
QOL: We look forward to enjoying the comforts of your fine ship.

[Ferengi quarters]
QOL: Quite acceptable. Not what we're used to, you understand, but it will do.
LENOR: Perhaps your captain would care to invite us to join him for dinner this evening?
WORF: The captain dines alone.
QOL: A pity. That was too easy.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: We've been working from your drawings, Ambassador. I hope we're in the ballpark.
BRIAM: Ball park?
PICARD: That's an old human expression. Mister LaForge hopes that we've got close to achieving what you wanted.
LAFORGE: Computer, run holodeck program Krios One.
COMPUTER: Enter when ready.

[Holodeck - Temple]
BRIAM: Astonishing. It is the ancient Temple of Akadar. It is this temple that bonds Krios and Valt, gentlemen. Two brothers ruled a vast empire from this site until they were torn apart by their love for an extraordinary woman. This is where the wars began. And this is where they shall end.

[Holodeck - Temple]
BRIAM: There are some details to be added, of course.
PICARD: Commander La Forge will be entirely at your disposal, Ambassador.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Just let me know what you need.
BRIAM: Yes, of course. I must consult several of the historical volumes I brought with me, so perhaps we can reconvene later.
LENOR: Excuse me! Excuse me! Is it true? Is a Kriosian ambassador aboard this vessel?
BRIAM: Yes. Can I help you?
PICARD: The Ambassador's very busy.
LENOR: Ah, do you schedule his appointments?
PICARD: I'm the Captain of the ship. What is it you want?
LENOR: Allow me to present myself. Par Lenor of the Ferengi Trade Mission. We are pleased to hear, Ambassador, that you have at last negotiated peace with the Valtese, Ambassador. Peace is good for trade, unless you happen to be an arms merchant.
PICARD: Excuse us.
LENOR: Arms merchant!

[Corridor]
LENOR: in return for the exclusive rights to transport all Kriosian products to the Valt system.
PICARD: May I suggest that you arrange to meet at another time, after the ceremony?
BRIAM: Perhaps that would be best.
LENOR: But, but
LAFORGE: Listen, have you had a chance to see the dolphins yet?

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck seven. Picard to Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant, one of the Ferengi just waylaid Ambassador Briam. I need you to keep them on a tight leash.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): I don't want them disrupting this conference.
WORF: Aye, sir. Security to cargo bay one.
RIKER: Lieutenant?
WORF: One of the Ferengi.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: What are you doing?
QOL: This is a misunderstanding. I was looking for a barbershop. Apparently I made an incorrect turn and
PICARD: Mister Worf?
RIKER: Get him out of here. Confine them both to their quarters. Put a guard on their door.
PICARD: What is happening?
BRIAM: Emergence.
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt.
BRIAM: No, Kamala. This is not Alrik. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
KAMALA: That explains why you don't look at all like your holographs. I apologize, Captain. As an empath, I could sense your authority. I assumed you were Chancellor Alrik.
PICARD: I'm afraid I require an explanation, Ambassador.
KAMALA: As do I, Ambassador. Why have I been brought out of stasis prematurely?
BRIAM: It was an accident. This is quite complicated. Perhaps you and I
KAMALA: It is not complicated at all, Briam, and the Captain has no tolerance for prevarication. I'm a gift, to Alrik of Valt.
RIKER: You mean you're using this ship to transport a sentient being as property?
BRIAM: Not as property, as a gift, and I was concerned that you might not entirely understand.
PICARD: Your concern was justified, Ambassador.
KAMALA: You're angry. Why?
PICARD: There is a provision in the Federation Constitution that protects an individual's fundamental rights. Now once you were brought aboard this ship
KAMALA: You're coming to my rescue. What a kind and generous purpose. But Captain, I do not need to be rescued.
BRIAM: Kamala is the key to peace between our two worlds.
RIKER: Why?
KAMALA: In our history there's a woman known as Garuth, who was loved by the brothers Krios and Valt with such passion that an empire fell.
BRIAM: And the wars began when Krios kidnapped Garuth and took her to our planet.
KAMALA: Like her, I'm an empathic metamorph. The first female metamorph born in my world for over a hundred years.
PICARD: A metamorph?
KAMALA: A mutant. A biological curiosity, if you will. With the ability to sense what a potential mate wants, what he needs, what gives him the greatest pleasure and then to become that for him.
RIKER: You mean you change according to whatever man you're with?
KAMALA: Until I reach the stage of bonding, when I must imprint upon myself the requirements of one man, to serve as his perfect partner in life.
BRIAM: You see, male metamorphs are somewhat common, but females are born only once in seven generations. So obviously they are greatly sought after as mates.
RIKER: Which explains the Ferengi's interest.
BRIAM: This mating to Alrik was arranged sine her birth by the leaders of both worlds, in the hopes of restoring peace.
PICARD: You do this of your own accord?
KAMALA: It is my sole purpose in life.
PICARD: Commander Riker, escort her to quarters. There's no need for you to travel in the cargo bay.
BRIAM: Kamala, remain in your room. I will speak to you shortly.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Why were you in stasis?
KAMALA: Metamorphs have a long and complex sexual maturing process. I am in the Finiis'ral, the third and final stage. It can be an uncomfortable transition Not only for me, but for the men around me.
RIKER: In what way?
KAMALA: My body is producing an unusually elevated level of what you would call pheromones. The effect can be quite provocative. Perhaps you sense it?
RIKER: Ah, unfortunately, I'm not an empath.
KAMALA: Oh, I think you are more empathic than you admit. At least when it comes to women.
RIKER: I think you have me at a disadvantage.

[Kamala's quarters]
RIKER: This is the comm. panel, the replicator. You can lower the lights on a verbal command. If you have any questions you can just ask the computer,
RIKER: I'm beginning to sense the elevated pheromones you were referring to.
KAMALA: You were curious, weren't you?
RIKER: Curious isn't exactly how I'd describe it.
KAMALA: Do you know what's remarkable about empathic metamorphs?
RIKER: You mean there's something even more remarkable about you?
KAMALA: We learn so quickly what stimulates a man, that the second time's even better than the first.
RIKER: Listen. This has been educational but I make it a policy never to open another man's gift.
KAMALA: I know my role in history, Commander. But it's going to be a long voyage.
RIKER: It certainly is. We'll try to make you as comfortable as possible.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Riker to bridge. If you need me, I'll be in holodeck four.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: How can you simply deliver her like a courier into a life of virtual prostitution.
PICARD: Beverly! Arranged marriages have been the basis of political alliances in many cultures, including our own.
CRUSHER: I'm surprised at you.
PICARD: She knows exactly what she's doing.
CRUSHER: She has been conditioned since the day she was born to believe it's perfectly acceptable to exist only to please men.
PICARD: She was born to do this.
CRUSHER: And bred by those people to seal a treaty with a seductive coup de grace.
PICARD: All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to the winds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance of peace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, their customs.
CRUSHER: That slave trader who calls himself an ambassador, he has confined her to her quarters. She is a virtual prisoner in there.
PICARD: I didn't know that.
CRUSHER: Well, it is your ship. Maybe there are a few things you should find out about.
PICARD: I'll talk to her about it.
CRUSHER: Good. Lovely breakfast.
PICARD: Indeed.

[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: Come in.
KAMALA: Captain Picard, what a delightful surprise. Come in.
PICARD: Thank you. Are you comfortable?
KAMALA: Reasonably, under the circumstances.
PICARD: It has been brought to my attention that you have been told to remain in here.
KAMALA: That's true, I'm afraid.
PICARD: Against your wishes.
KAMALA: At the request of the Ambassador, who believes I might be disruptive to your crew.
PICARD: The performance of my crew is none of the Ambassador's business.
KAMALA: You care about my well being. Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: I care about, I care about what happens on board my ship.
KAMALA: Yes, I know. This ship's very important to you, isn't it?
PICARD: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it is.
KAMALA: Are all captains' lives so solitary? Or just yours?
PICARD: Don't.
KAMALA: What?
PICARD: Don't do this, this, this you do with men.
KAMALA: I'm afraid my premature emergence from stasis has left me a little vulnerable to the desires I sense from men. Nevertheless, this is who I am, Captain. You might as well ask a Vulcan to forgo logic, or a Klingon to be nonviolent. I cannot change, and I don't want to until the time has come for me to bond with my permanent mate. Why does it bother you?
PICARD: Frankly, it's difficult for me, for many of us, to easily accept that a sentient being can live only to be what someone else wants them to be.
KAMALA: But that's what gives a metamorph pleasure.
PICARD: But what about your wishes, your needs?
KAMALA: They are fulfilled by what I give to others.
PICARD: And what about when there are no others, when you are alone?
KAMALA: I'm incomplete. What curious questions, Captain.
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I thought that it would help if I learned more about you.
KAMALA: But you know me better than you realize. I am independent, forceful, brilliant, and adventurous. Exactly as you would have me be, Captain.
PICARD: I will speak to the Ambassador about easing your restrictions.
KAMALA: Thank you, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45766.1. We have reached the designated coordinates for the conference and await the arrival of Chancellor Alrik.

[Holodeck - Temple]
BRIAM: I forbid it.
PICARD: Forbid it?
BRIAM: It's too dangerous, Captain. She must remain in her quarters.
PICARD: You cannot confine her against her will. Not on board this ship, Ambassador. She is requesting some freedom of movement and I intend to give it to her.
BRIAM: She is still in the Finiis'ral, the height of her sexual allure, Captain. Every man on the ship will be fighting over her.
PICARD: Not every man.

[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: A chaperone?
DATA: I would be pleased to escort you around the ship.
KAMALA: But I was hoping we might spend more time together, Captain.
PICARD: I shall busy making arrangements for the conference.
KAMALA: I'm very knowledgeable about Valt. I could be helpful.
PICARD: I think that you should enjoy the hospitality of the ship. Mister Data here will see to your every comfort. If you will excuse me.

[Corridor]
DATA: Your empathic powers do not perceive anything because as an android, I have no emotions.
KAMALA: I can understand why Captain Picard chose you to be my chaperone.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: I'll check in with you later.
MINER 1: Excuse me, but I'm absolutely certain that we met once at Paloris Colony.
KAMALA: I've never been to Paloris Colony.
MINER 1: Neither have I. Why don't we find out what else we have in common.
DATA: Extremely rude behavior.
KAMALA: He's just being playful.
DATA: Perhaps you would care for something to drink?
KAMALA: What are you all having, boys?
MINER 2: Aldorian Ale's our drink.
KAMALA: Then, it's mine too.
DATA: Bartender!
DATA: There do not seem to be enough waiters on duty.
MINER 3: I believe they're having a minor problem with the replicator.
MINER 2: They could use a hand, Commander.
DATA: Excuse me. I believe I will stay.
KAMALA: Mister Data's protecting me tonight.
MINER 2: Protecting you? From what?
KAMALA: From you, I guess. I told the Captain not to worry, I just want to have a good time like anybody else.
MINER 1: Come on down to deck seven, we'll show you a good time
MINER 2: Get rid of the android. We'll have some fun.
WORF: Is there a problem here?
MINER 1: No, sir.
MINER 2: No problem.
MINER 3: Tell him, lady.
DATA: Thank you, Lieutenant. The crowd seemed a bit too ebullient for comfort. Perhaps you would enjoy a quiet visit to the arboretum.

[Ready room]
KAMALA: Perhaps the ambassador is right. Perhaps I should remain in my quarters.
PICARD: I have confidence in the self-control of my crew, Kamala, but there are guests and civilians on board.
KAMALA: I understand. I will volunteer to stay in my quarters under one condition. That you will visit me. There it is again.
PICARD: What?
KAMALA: The wall you put between us.
PICARD: Kamala, you are one day away from an arranged mating. Why would you want me to visit you in your quarters?
KAMALA: I said a visit. I didn't ask you to make love to me.
KAMALA: Ventanan thimble. Early Lapeongical period, isn't it?
PICARD: Yes, it is.
KAMALA: Have you seen the Ventanan woven art recovered from the fourth colony dig?
PICARD: Woven art? Recovered intact?
KAMALA: They say the colors are remarkably vibrant for their age.
PICARD: I've read about them for years, but they were so delicate no one expected to find any preserved. How do you know about them?
KAMALA: I stay informed on a wide variety of subjects. After all, one never knows when the conversation might turn to Ventanan archeology or to the dark woman of raven brows and mournful eyes in Shakespeare's sonnets. Or to the gardens of Les Eyries near the village where you grew up.
PICARD: Your empathic powers told you all this about me?
KAMALA: Not quite that much. Mister Data helped a little.
PICARD: I see.
KAMALA: My empathic powers can only sense a man of deep passion, and conviction. So controlled. So disciplined. I am simply curious to know what lies beneath.
PICARD: Nothing. Nothing lies beneath. I'm really quite dull. I fall asleep each night with an old book in my hands.
KAMALA: When a metamorph finds you interesting, do not take it lightly.
PICARD: Oh, I'm not taking it lightly. I'm just trying to be as dull as possible.
KAMALA: Will you visit me?
PICARD: It would be inappropriate.
KAMALA: Is that a yes or a no?
PICARD: I'm sorry.
KAMALA: Even the walls of Jericho fell, Captain.
PICARD: Why are you doing this, Kamala?
KAMALA: There can be only one reason. Because some part of you wants me to.

[Ferengi quarters]
LENOR: Ambassador.
BRIAM: What is the meaning of this?
LENOR: Ah, I see you got our message.
BRIAM: Is this some sort of bribe? I am not amused.
QOL: No, Ambassador. Your attitude is quite understandable.
LENOR: This is just a sample.
QOL: The bribe is ten thousand more.
LENOR: Ludugial gold. The purest in the galaxy.
QOL: We know the lifestyle of a Kriosian Ambassador is far from comfortable.
LENOR: You deserve to live a life of luxury.
BRIAM: How dare you suggest
QOL: Our money! What? You drive a hard bargain.
LENOR: Twenty thousand, but not an ingot more.
QOL: We must have the metamorph.
LENOR: She is the answer to a Ferengi prayer.
QOL: We have a ship waiting to rendezvous with us in three hours. We can all transport off together.
BRIAM: Thank you for sharing that information. I shall pass on along to Captain Picard.
LENOR: You can't do that.
BRIAM: Let go of me.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Ferengi have been dispatched via shuttle to Starbase one one seven. What charges will be brought against them depends on whether or not Ambassador Briam recovers.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We've been able to stabilize his condition. If we're lucky he'll regain consciousness in a few days. Set up level one cranio-sacral display.
MEDIC (voiceover): Yes, Doctor.
PICARD: I'll advise the Valtese delegation that the conference will have to be postponed.
KAMALA: That won't be possible. My ability to imprint on a mate will only last a matter of hours after the completion of the Finiis'ral. If I hadn't been removed from stasis prematurely, a delay might have been possible. But now, I will have to bond with Alrik within two days.
PICARD: But there are points in the negotiations that Briam still has to address.
KAMALA: You are familiar with the issues.
PICARD: Familiar, yes, but I can't represent your peoples' interests.
KAMALA: You can represent the interests of peace. My people will agree, I'm certain of it.
PICARD: But there are customs and rituals of which I have no experience at all.
KAMALA: I told you, I'm extremely knowledgeable about Valt. I will help you prepare.

[Holodeck - Temple]
KAMALA: Torze qua.
KAMALA: That's right.
PICARD: I'm reminded of piano lessons when I was a child. Preparing for some dreaded recital.
KAMALA: You still play?
PICARD: No. I regret that I gave it up. It used to please my mother. But I didn't like performing in front of an audience.
KAMALA: Shy?
PICARD: No. Just not very good.
KAMALA: Thank you. For letting down your guard, if only for a moment.
PICARD: You will have to help me in the pronunciation of this scroll.
KAMALA: What is it about me you fear?
PICARD: Kamala.
KAMALA: Do you find me unattractive?
PICARD: I find you unavailable.
KAMALA: I'm being terribly selfish. I apologize. We have something in common, Captain. When I was a child, I took music lessons, too.
PICARD: Really? What instrument?
KAMALA: All of them.
PICARD: The entire orchestra?
KAMALA: Plus a few Valtese horns that sound like braying Targhee Moonbeasts. They are said to soothe the nerves of Valtese men. My mother never even heard me play. I was taken from her when I was four and sequestered in a royal village where I was prepared to fulfill my destiny.
PICARD: It sounds as if it were a very lonely time for you.
KAMALA: On the contrary, I had servants and tutors at my side constantly. You once asked me what I'm like when I'm alone. I've never been. There was always somebody there to educate me in literature, history, art, sex. But I have been alone on this journey, and I've found myself thinking about all the curious questions you asked. You wanted to know who I am. And as I continue to ask myself, the only answer that comes to me is, I am for you, Alrik of Valt. Because that's the truth. In a day, I will bond with a man I've never met. and I will turn myself into what he wants me to be, for the rest of my life.
PICARD: I also once asked you if you were doing this of your own accord.
KAMALA: I'm honored to be chosen to serve my people as an emissary of peace. But I find it ironic on the eve of this ceremony, which I have spent my entire life preparing for, that I should meet a man like you.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): The Valtese ship has arrived. Chancellor Alrik is ready to beam aboard.

[Observation lounge]
ALRIK: Captain Picard.
PICARD: Chancellor Alrik. Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
ALRIK: Your First Officer has described the details of the incident with the Ferengis. How is the Ambassador?
PICARD: He has not regained consciousness.
ALRIK: A tragedy. Your willingness to assist is appreciated by both our peoples.
PICARD: I', doing my best, although I'm finding some of the rituals quite demanding.
ALRIK: Rituals. I am more concerned about the remaining provisions of the treaty. The proposed trade agreements are not acceptable. We still must review the uncommitted territories as well as discuss the schedule for exchange of technology.
PICARD: The Kriosians have authorized me to make several compromises favorable to your position.
ALRIK: Good. Tomorrow, then.
PICARD: Briam has supervised a reproduction of the ancient Temple of Akadar on our holodeck.
ALRIK: Such a sentimental people, these Kriosians. It's hard to believe we have a common ancestry.
PICARD: Please.
ALRIK: I suppose they've sent the metamorph.
PICARD: Kamala? Yes. She's looking forward to meeting you.
ALRIK: I'm sure she'll be satisfactory. Between you and me, Captain, I am far more interested in the trade agreements.

[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: So tell me quickly. What is he like?
PICARD: First impressions? He's a thoughtful man. Informed.
KAMALA: Did he ask about me?
PICARD: Yes.
KAMALA: What did you tell him?
PICARD: That you were looking forward to meeting him.
KAMALA: When am I to be presented?
PICARD: It'll be the first order of business tomorrow. At ten.
KAMALA: Would you like some tea?
PICARD: Thank you, but I should prepare for the ceremony.
KAMALA: Let me help you with pronunciations.
PICARD: I think I can muddle my way through.
KAMALA: Please don't leave. Talk to me. I love the sound of your voice. I'll turn out the lights and just listen. I don't want to be alone.
PICARD: The lights stay on.
KAMALA: Earl Gray Tea. Hot.
PICARD: Did you learn that from Commander Data as well? I shall have to have a talk with him.
PICARD: Now that I know that you're listening to my voice, I find that I can't think of anything to say.
KAMALA: A starship captain must encounter all sorts of lifeforms. Am I one of the most unique you've ever met? Please say yes.
PICARD: Yes.
KAMALA: What a nice thing to say.
PICARD: Kamala, have I not done everything possible to discourage this?
KAMALA: Maybe that's the perfect way to attract a metamorph.
PICARD: I don't want to use you as other men do.
KAMALA: But you're not other men. You could never use me. That's the very reason why I'm with you tonight.
PICARD: I should go. And you have an appointment tomorrow morning early.
KAMALA: Light years away.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: Quiet this morning.
PICARD: I'm sorry.
CRUSHER: Penny?
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: For your thoughts. Penny for your thoughts.
PICARD: Do you have one?
CRUSHER: I'm sure the replicator will have one on file.
PICARD: Beverly, may I take off the uniform for a moment?
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: I need to talk to a friend.
CRUSHER: Of course.
PICARD: Actually, it's all your fault.
CRUSHER: Mine?
PICARD: You insisted I look into her situation.
CRUSHER: The metamorph?
PICARD: The metamorph. Kamala. I've spent quite a lot of time with her the past few days, and you're right about several things, but, Beverly, her entire existence has been orchestrated for this moment and she intends to go through with it to help her people end the war.
CRUSHER: And you're saying there's nothing you can do about it?
PICARD: It isn't that simple. I barely know who she is, and who she is changes the moment the next man comes into the room. And I find myself hoping that the next man won't come in. But, of course, he does, and in a few hours, the ceremony will begin and she will mate with a man who cares more about trade agreements than he cares about her. And I can't help thinking how she will be with him. How she will change to accommodate him.
CRUSHER: I wish I knew how I could help.
PICARD: Perhaps I just needed a shoulder.
CRUSHER: Oh, it's there for you, Jean-Luc. It always has been.

[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: Come in.
KAMALA: Is it time?
PICARD: Soon.
KAMALA: Do you have any questions about the ceremony?
PICARD: Many.
KAMALA: I will never truly love him.
PICARD: You've not even met him.
KAMALA: It no longer matters. I wish I could convey to you what it's like to be a metamorph. To feel the inner strength of someone. To realize that being with him is opening your mind and heart to endless new possibilities. To hear yourself say, I like myself when I'm with him.
PICARD: Kamala.
KAMALA: For a metamorph there's no greater pleasure and no greater wish than to bond with that kind of mate at the end of the Finiis'ral, as I've bonded with you.
PICARD: With me?
KAMALA: Who I am today, I will be forever.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Not now, Data.
DATA (voiceover): But sir, Chancellor Alrik is waiting to receive you in holodeck seven.
PICARD: Acknowledged. You can't go through with the ceremony.
KAMALA: Would you ask me to stay and ask two armies to keep fighting? Having bonded with you, I've learned the meaning of duty. He'll never know. I'm still empathic. I will be able to please him. I only hope he likes Shakespeare.

[Holodeck - Temple]
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt.

[Transporter room]
BRIAM: Your service to both our peoples is greatly appreciated, Captain.
PICARD: Your preparations made the negotiations simple, Ambassador, and Kamala was able to guide me through the rituals.
BRIAM: I have to admit, I'm curious.
PICARD: Curious?
BRIAM: I was chosen for this mission for a very simple reason. I'm two hundred years old. The temptations of a beautiful metamorph do not easily reach me. And yet I would be lying if I were to claim, that even at my age, they do not reach me at all. But you, you worked with her, side by side for days. How could you resist her?
PICARD: Ambassador, have a safe trip home.
BRIAM: Energize.

[Clara's bedroom]
CLARA: I like to cook all kinds of stuff, like yogurt and raisin salad, chocolate chip pancakes and purple omelets.
TROI: Purple omelets?
CLARA: You put grape juice in the eggs. Isabella doesn't like it very much. She says it tastes funny.
TROI: I can see her point. Sugar with your tea?
CLARA: Yes, please.
TROI: Isabella would you like some too?
CLARA: Yes, but she takes two cubes.
TROI: I'll bet Isabella is very pretty.
CLARA: She's very, very pretty. She has blonde hair and a blue dress with white buttons. Her ears are pierced and she's tall.
TROI: Maybe you could draw me a picture. I'd love to see what she looks like.
CLARA: You don't think she's real.
TROI: I think she's real for you, and that is real enough for me.
SUTTER: Honey, I think it's time for you to go. You don't want to keep Keiko waiting.
CLARA: I have to go plant the nasturtiums now. I'm Keiko's helper in the arboretum today.
TROI: Is that so?
SUTTER: You go ahead, sweetie, and be home for dinner.
TROI: I hope I see you soon. Maybe we can be friends.
CLARA: Okay. Counselor Troi?
TROI: Yes?
CLARA: Isabella says she likes you.
TROI: Why, thank you, Isabella.
TROI: I can understand your concern, Ensign Sutter, but really you have nothing to worry about. It's a normal, healthy activity for children to engage in imaginary play.
SUTTER: I'm just afraid she's not making any real friends. She spends all of her time with Isabella.
TROI: You've been moving from starship to starship since Clara was two years old. Maybe Isabella provides a constant companion. She knows this is one friend she won't have to leave behind.
SUTTER: You're probably right.
TROI: Give Clara a chance. As she learns to make friends on the Enterprise, you'll probably find that she'll leave her imaginary world behind.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45852.1. The Enterprise has arrived at FGC four seven, a nebula which has formed around a neutron star. We are eager to investigate this unique formation.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We've got elevated quantities of hydrogen, helium and trionium, but nothing the shields can't handle.
RIKER: Shields up.
PICARD: Take us in, Ensign. One quarter impulse.
FELTON: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
DATA: In order for the lateral sensors to complete their scheduled observations, additional processing time will be required.
LAFORGE: We could steal a couple of hours from the Engineering team while they're recalibrating the thermal interferometery scanner.
DATA: Will two hours be enough time to complete the high-resolution series on the neutron star?
LAFORGE: No problem. We'll just double up the main sensor bandwidth while they're freeing up the lateral unit.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: And then after dinner, then what?
OGAWA: We went to the holodeck and took a walk on the Champs Elysees.
CRUSHER: The neural scanner still seems to be a bit off. Let's check the sensor calibrations.
OGAWA: I'll run a diagnostic.
CRUSHER: And?
OGAWA: And?
CRUSHER: After Paris?
OGAWA: He has shore leave next month. He asked me to go to Risa with him.
CRUSHER: No problem. Nurse McClukidge can cover for you.
OGAWA: I don't think I'm going, Doctor. I hear it's a very uninhibited atmosphere. Personally, I don't think I'm ready for that kind of fun.
CRUSHER: Try to talk him into Tavena Minor. They have a cruise down the Jokri River. The iridescent currents are beautiful.

[Arboretum]
CLARA: See, Isabella? You have to push your finger into the soil as far as it can go. I'm making a hole for the seeds. Now they need to be watered. But the baby seeds are very small, so we mustn't give them too much to drink.
CLARA: Hello? Is anybody there?
ISABELLA: Hello.
CLARA: Isabella?
ISABELLA: Hello, Clara.
CLARA: Isabella, how come I can see you?
ISABELLA: Is something wrong with the way I look?
CLARA: No. I've just never seen you before. Not for real.
ISABELLA: Well, now you can see me for real. Doesn't that make you happy?
CLARA: Yes, it's wonderful.
ISABELLA: Can we go now?
CLARA: We'd better finish planting the seeds first.
ISABELLA: I'm tired of planting. Let's do something else.
CLARA: Like what?
ISABELLA: Like, I would really like to explore the ship.
CLARA: We'd better finish planting first. I promised Keiko.
ISABELLA: We can finish later. Let's go look around.
CLARA: I'd better ask my daddy.
ISABELLA: Your daddy won't mind. We can tell him later. Come on.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: So what are we going to name this nebula? FGC forty seven just doesn't have the proper ring to it.
SUTTER: Why don't we call it Sutter's Cloud?
DATA: The rotational period of the neutron star is one point three five seconds.
LAFORGE: That's a bit on the long side. Sutter, let's see if you can get a reading on the particle flux.
SUTTER: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I was thinking about something more along the lines of the La Forge Nebula. It's got sort of a majestic sound, don't you think?
DATA: Given the selections, I prefer FGC four seven.
SUTTER: What was that?
LAFORGE: It felt like we hit something.
DATA: Shields have registered an impact, however sensors show nothing in the vicinity.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forward velocity is down by point two percent, and dropping.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Report.
LAFORGE: Could be something wrong with the shields, Captain. We're checking it out now.
SUTTER: Systems are normal, sir.
LAFORGE: So did we hit something or not? Shields say yes, sensors say no. This is very strange. Ensign, give me a breakdown on shield energy conversion and then run a spectral. Whoa. Where did you come from?
CLARA: I'm Clara Sutter. That's my daddy.
SUTTER: Clara, you can't be here right now.
CLARA: But Isabella wanted to see Engineering.
SUTTER: I don't care what Isabella wanted to see, you go back to our quarters right now.
CLARA: But Daddy
PICARD (voiceover): Bridge to La Forge. Our speed is still dropping.
LAFORGE: I hear you, Captain. I'm increasing the power to the impulse engines, but forward velocity just isn't consistent with engine output.
PICARD (voiceover): Explanation.
LAFORGE: It seems like there's something increasing the drag coefficient on the ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): But we can't find the source.
PICARD: If we can't correct it we may have to reverse course and leave the nebula.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Give me a couple of minutes here, Captain.
SUTTER: Clara, now.
SUTTER: I'm sorry, Commander.

[Corridor]
CLARA: Why do you keep disappearing like that?
ISABELLA: The grown-ups don't believe I'm real. When they're around, I have to be invisible. Wait here.

[Engineering]
DATA: The drag coefficient continues to increase. Our velocity has fallen by twelve percent. Velocity is increasing. Ship's speed has stabilized at one quarter impulse.
LAFORGE: That's great, Data. What'd you do?
DATA: I did nothing. The problem seems to have corrected itself.

[Corridor]
CLARA: Where did you go?
ISABELLA: There was something I had to do.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I don't have an explanation, Captain. We seemed to hit something, then we started losing speed. So far as we can tell, there's nothing out there to hit.
RIKER: Could some kind of damping field have caused us to lose velocity?
DATA: We have simulated several such fields, but were unable to reproduce the same drag coefficient.
LAFORGE: And we still don't know why the problem suddenly corrected itself.
PICARD: It seems we're looking a unique phenomenon. One that hasn't been recorded before.
LAFORGE: The question is, do we stay here and check it out?
RIKER: Might be dangerous.
DATA: Since we have only experienced the phenomenon once, it is impossible to estimate the risks.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to stay here for a little bit, collect some samples of the gaseous matter, see what it tells us.
PICARD: Agreed. Collect your samples, Mister La Forge. We'll proceed with caution. Dismissed.

[Corridor]
ISABELLA: What's in here?
CLARA: That's the door to the cargo bay. We can't go in there.
ISABELLA: Let's go someplace with a lot of people.
CLARA: Okay. Isabella, why are you so serious lately?
ISABELLA: What do you mean?
CLARA: You haven't even smiled once today.
CLARA: You're my best friend, Isabella.
ISABELLA: Why?
CLARA: I don't know. Because we do things together and we trade secrets.
ISABELLA: Does everybody have a best friend?
CLARA: If they're lucky. Before I had you, I didn't have one.
ISABELLA: Why not?
CLARA: Every time I made friends with someone, my daddy's job would change and we'd move to a new ship. It takes time to make a best friend.
ISABELLA: How long?
CLARA: It depends. With you, not very long. You always listened to me, even when I was sad.
ISABELLA: Clara, I'm glad we're best friends.
CLARA: Race you.
ISABELLA: Okay.
CLARA: Ready, set, go!
WORF: This area is not designated for children. Are you lost? Where are you supposed to be?
CLARA: We were only playing. We're sorry.
WORF: Return to your quarters, and we will forget this incident.
CLARA: Thank you. Come on.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, I've configured the magnetic coil to collect samples of gaseous matter from the nebula. Go ahead and activate the beam emitter.
SUTTER: I'm setting the fractionater to a continuous cycle.
LAFORGE: We'll take samples from eight random sections. That ought to give us a reliable measure.
SUTTER: Commander, I understand that you had a parent who was in Starfleet.
LAFORGE: Two of them, as a matter of fact. My father was an exozoologist, my mother a Command officer.
SUTTER: They must have been posted to a lot of different assignments.
LAFORGE: That's putting it mildly. They were always on the move. Some of the time together, sometimes separately. I never knew whether or not I was going to be stationed with my father while he studied invertebrates in the Modean system or on some outpost near the Neutral Zone with my mom.
SUTTER: Was that hard on you?
LAFORGE: I don't remember it that way.
SUTTER: It must have been disruptive if you didn't stay in one place long enough to make friends.
LAFORGE: Well, I suppose there were aspects of my childhood that were less than ideal, but to me it was just one long adventure. Children are a lot stronger than you think. As long as they know you love them, they can handle just about anything life throws at them, you know.
SUTTER: Thanks, Commander.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: It's a Samarian coral fish with its fin unfolded.
DATA: I believe what you are seeing is the effect of the fluid dynamic processes inherent in the large scale motion of highly rarified gas.
GUINAN: No, no. First it was a fish, and now it's a Mintonian sailing ship.
DATA: Where?
GUINAN: Right there. Don't you see the two swirls coming together to form the mast?
DATA: I do not see it. It is interesting that people try to find meaningful patterns in things that are essentially random. I have noticed that the images they perceive sometimes suggest what they are thinking about at that particular moment. Besides, it is clearly a bunny rabbit.
GUINAN: Looks as though someone's lost their way. Excuse me. Hello. Are you looking for someone?
CLARA: No. I brought Isabella to see Ten Forward.
GUINAN: Oh, I see. Well, ordinarily we would only let you in with a grown-up, but since you've brought Isabella, you can be my guest. Won't you join me?
CLARA: Thank you.
GUINAN: Now, how about two Papalla juices with extra bubbles.
CLARA: Just one, please. Isabella isn't thirsty.
GUINAN: One juice.
CLARA: You're not like the other grown-ups.
GUINAN: Oh, no?
CLARA: They don't think Isabella's real.
GUINAN: Well, most grown-ups have a hard time with things they can't see.
CLARA: Why?
GUINAN: Well, because they get preoccupied by other things.
CLARA: Like what?
GUINAN: Like how much fuel it takes to power a ship, or whether we should go to one star system or another, or whether little girls should go to bed at seven or be allowed to stay up till eight. So their heads can get so full that they forget about the things that are important to you and me, like imaginary friends.
CLARA: If the other grown-ups don't understand, how come you do?
GUINAN: Maybe because when I was your age, I had one.
CLARA: You did? What was she like?
GUINAN: It wasn't a she.
CLARA: What was he like?
GUINAN: It wasn't a he.
CLARA: It?
GUINAN: It was a Tarkassian razor beast. It had dark brown fur and gold eyes and huge spiny wings, and it would fly so fast nobody could see it except me.
CLARA: Sounds scary.
GUINAN: Oh, it was, especially when he smiled. But the best thing about him was I could curl up on his furry belly, and he had the softest purr you ever heard. It put me right to sleep every night. I tell you, that razorbeast was a good friend.
CLARA: So is Isabella.
TROI: Hello, Clara.
CLARA: Hello.
GUINAN: Clara and Isabella and I were just having a conversation.
TROI: Would you and Isabella like to come for a walk with me?
CLARA: I guess so. Bye.
GUINAN: Bye, Clara. Bye, Isabella.

[Corridor]
TROI: Clara, you haven't been on this she very long, so maybe you don't know, but Ten Forward is usually for grown-ups.
CLARA: I know that. I didn't want to go, but Isabella wanted to see it.
TROI: If Isabella is making you do things you know are wrong, then you must tell her it's not acceptable.
CLARA: I try to but she doesn't listen.

[Turbolift]
TROI: Deck thirty two. Clara, do you want me to talk to Isabella?
TROI: Isabella, it's not very nice to get Clara to do things that she isn't supposed to.
CLARA: She's over there.
TROI: From now on I want you to ask a grown-up before you go to any place that is off-limits.
TROI: What does she say?
CLARA: She said.
TROI: Clara, please tell me what Isabella said.
CLARA: She said, you'd better leave us alone.

[Corridor]
TROI: I'm a little concerned at the turn this is taking. It seems Clara is beginning to do inappropriate things and blaming them on Isabella.
SUTTER: She came into Engineering today. She said it was Isabella's idea.
TROI: I don't think it's too serious yet, but we should make more of an effort to get her involved with real friends her own age. The children's center's having a ceramics class this afternoon. Why don't I take Clara?
SUTTER: I think she'd like that.
TROI: I'll see if there's any room left in the class. In the meantime, I think you should make yourself more available to Clara. Let her know she doesn't have to rely on Isabella when she needs someone to talk to.
SUTTER: Counselor, thank you.

[Clara's bedroom]
ISABELLA: Are you mad at me? I'm sorry I got you in trouble.
CLARA: That's okay.
ISABELLA: Are we still best friends?
CLARA: Here, you can help me put this together if you want.
ISABELLA: Clara, why are grown-ups so mean?
CLARA: They're not mean. They're just more serious than we are.
ISABELLA: Sometimes I wish they would just go away.
CLARA: You do?
ISABELLA: Yes, I don't like them. I'm bored. Let's go back to Engineering.
CLARA: We're not allowed to go there.
ISABELLA: I thought we were best friends.
CLARA: We are.
ISABELLA: Then why won't you play with me?
CLARA: I told you.
ISABELLA: You always listen to the grown-ups. You don't care about me.
CLARA: That's not true.
ISABELLA: I thought we'd have fun together, once you could really see me. I thought you'd like me. Let's go to Engineering, Clara. Just for a little while. No one will know. It'll be our secret. And if they find us, we'll tell them we got lost.
CLARA: Who is it?
TROI (voiceover): Counselor Troi.
TROI: Hello, Clara.
CLARA: Hi.
TROI: I came to ask if you'd like to go to a ceramics class.
CLARA: Can Isabella come too?
TROI: No. Let's do something with Isabella another day.
CLARA: Well, okay.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, as we move deeper into the nebula, sensors indicate that the levels of helium and trionium are continuing to rise.
PICARD: Is it something that the shields can't handle?
DATA: No, sir. We are well within tolerance levels.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Shields have registered an impact.
PICARD: But the sensors show nothing out there, right?
DATA: There is no indication of anything near the ship.
WORF: Forward velocity is dropping, Captain. Down by point four percent.
PICARD: Can we go to warp speed?
DATA: Until we determine the cause of the drag coefficient, I would not recommend it, sir.
WORF: Forward velocity down by one point one percent.
PICARD: Ensign, increase power to the impulse engines.
FELTON: Aye, sir. Impulse engines now at full power.
WORF: We are no longer losing speed. Forward velocity is holding steady.
DATA: The drag coefficient is still present, but it has stabilized.
PICARD: Bridge to Commander Riker. Check with Mister La Forge. See if he found anything in the matter sample from the nebula.
RIKER (voiceover): On my way, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Any luck?
LAFORGE: Yeah, take a look at this. We tried radiating the subject matter with just about everything we could think of. We didn't find anything until we subjected it to a high frequency warp field. We think this is what we've been running into.
RIKER: Do you know what it is?
LAFORGE: We think so, now that the sensors can read it. It seems to be a highly cohesive form of plasma, like a strand of energy.
SUTTER: We figure it's a segment of just part of a network of much larger strands.
LAFORGE: When these things come in contact with our shields it produces a resonant effect, and that creates the drag coefficient we've been experiencing.
RIKER: Is there anything like this on record?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
RIKER: Do you know how many of them there might be?
LAFORGE: No, but if we run the warp field generators through the deflector grid, we could radiate a field outside the ship.
RIKER: And we'd be able to see for ourselves. Let's do it.

[Children's center]
TROI: Alexander, I thought you might like a partner. This is Clara Sutter. She's new on the Enterprise. Clara, meet Alexander Rozhenko.
ALEXANDER: I'm making a cup for my father. Want to help?
TROI: Go ahead.
ALEXANDER: Well, you're supposed to put them in a row, like this.
TROI: Clara, would you like some clay of your own?
TEACHER: Here, honey.
CLARA: I've never made a cup before. How do you make the round part?
ALEXANDER: Well, it's easy. You take a big piece of clay like this, and push your hand into it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Warp field generators are standing by.
LAFORGE: Captain, we should be able to illuminate any strands within two thousand kilometers of the ship.
PICARD: Proceed.
LAFORGE: Initiating field generation.
PICARD: Remarkable.
DATA: It is an irregular lattice composed of approximately forty seven million strands of energy.
LAFORGE: Captain, with this many of them, the resonant effect on our shields could cause a problem.
PICARD: Agreed. Ensign, bring us about. Take us out of the nebula.
DATA: It may be difficult, sir. I am detecting a significant number of strands behind us.
PICARD: Do your best, Ensign.
FELTON: Aye, sir.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Hot chocolate. Computer, I need my appointment schedule for next week.

[Daycare center]
ALEXANDER: Kryonian Tigers aren't so scary. I saw one once.
CLARA: You did?
ALEXANDER: My father took me to the zoo on Brentalia. All the tiger did was lick my hand. And he smelled funny.
CLARA: I think we need more water.
ALEXANDER: I'll get some.
CLARA: Isabella?
ALEXANDER: Clara!
CLARA: I didn't do it.
ALEXANDER: Who did?
CLARA: It was Isabella.
ALEXANDER: I don't see anybody.
CLARA: She's invisible.
ALEXANDER: I spent two weeks on that. That was really mean.
CLARA: I didn't do it. I didn't.
ALEXANDER: Clara, there's no such thing as invisible people. You're lying.
ALEXANDER: Hey!
CLARA: Isabella, stop!

[Arboretum]
ISABELLA: Clara.
CLARA: Why were you being so mean to me? Why'd you do that to my friend?
ISABELLA: Because you ran away from me. You left me alone. I had to do everything by myself.
CLARA: You're scaring me.
ISABELLA: I was going to protect you, Clara. I liked you. But now I don't care. Now, when the others come, you can die along with everyone else.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister Data.
DATA: At our current speed, we will clear the nebula in twelve minutes four seconds.
PICARD: Continue a full sensor sweep. I want all the information we can gather.
WORF: Captain, forward velocity is down by point six percent. Velocity down by two point four percent.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: We are moving through a dense concentration of energy strands.
RIKER: Can we go to warp?
LAFORGE: The stress on the hull would be too great.
DATA: Captain, density appears to be lower off the starboard bow.
PICARD: Ensign, bring us to bearing oh three oh mark five.
FELTON: Aye, sir.
WORF: Forward velocity holding.
PICARD: Steady as she goes.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Is something wrong with the cake?
TROI: Excuse me?
GUINAN: Well, I see you sitting here with a piece of untouched chocolate cake in front of you. I assume something's wrong with the cake or something's bothering you.
TROI: I'm sure the cake is fine. I've just been thinking.
GUINAN: Let me guess. About the little girl with the imaginary friend?
TROI: I'm wondering if I'm doing the right thing.
GUINAN: How so?
TROI: Well, I know the best thing to do is to gradually wean her away from her fantasy, and she did make some new friends today and had a good time.
GUINAN: But?
TROI: But I can't help feeling that I'm taking something from her. Something precious. A part of her childhood she'll never have again.
GUINAN: Well, I'm not sure about that. I was just telling Clara about my imaginary friend.
TROI: You have an imaginary friend?
GUINAN: A Tarkassian razor beast. It protected me. I knew as long as that razorbeast was around, nothing could hurt me. You know, over the years his body kind of faded away but the idea stayed. And I just don't seem to talk to him as often as I used to.
TROI: You still talk to it?
GUINAN: Oh, yeah, when I'm afraid or I get confused or a little scared. I just don't think you should have to give up an imaginary friend.
SUTTER (voiceover): Ensign Sutter to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Go ahead, Ensign.

[Sutter quarters]
SUTTER: Would you come to my quarters? I'm having a problem with Clara.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: I'm on my way.

[Sutter quarters]
SUTTER: She won't even go into her room. She's terrified that Isabella's going to hurt her.
TROI: Clara, your father tells me Isabella has been saying some very bad things to you. What did she say?
CLARA: She said they were going to come and kill everyone.
TROI: Who's going to come and kill everyone?
CLARA: The others, like her.
TROI: Did she say why? I know you're very frightened. Sometimes what we imagine can be just as scary as something real. But I promise you, there is no way Isabella can harm you or anyone on this ship.
CLARA: But she's not imaginary anymore. She's real now. I can see her.
TROI: You can see her?
CLARA: Yes.
TROI: If I go with you and hold your hand, will you go into your room?
CLARA: I think so.
TROI: We'll make sure Isabella isn't anywhere around, okay? Come on.

[Clara's bedroom]
TROI: Do you see anybody?
TROI: Let's look under the bed. Is she there? Okay, where else?
TROI: Is she behind here?
TROI: Maybe Isabella's gone home.
TROI: Let's see. Anything here? Maybe Isabella knows that you've got new friends now. In fact, I'll bet she won't be coming around as much anymore.
CLARA: Maybe. What about in the closet?
TROI: Okay. Anybody in here? Looks pretty empty to me.

[Sickbay]
TROI: She was eleven, maybe twelve, with blonde hair. Clara.
CRUSHER: Clara's sleeping. She's going to be fine. Her bioelectrical processes were severely disrupted. It's as if the energy were pulled right out of her body.
SUTTER: Captain, Clara has told me that her imaginary friend has been making threats. She claimed that others were on the way and that they had plans to kill everyone on the ship.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.

[Bridge]
WORF: Worf here, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant,

[Sickbay]
PICARD: We've established the presence of what appears to be an alien entity on board. It seems the entity has manifested itself in the form of a twelve year old human girl who has been seen with Clara Sutter. She has blonde hair, blue eyes
WORF (voiceover): And a blue dress.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes sir, I have seen her.
PICARD (voiceover): When?
WORF: Two days ago, near Engineering. She was with Miss Sutter.
PICARD (voiceover): Security Alert

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Mister Worf. Keep a good lookout.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
OGAWA: She insisted on talking to you.
CLARA: It's about Isabella.
SUTTER: What about her, Clara?
CLARA: I think her feelings were hurt. She said she liked me, she liked being with me. She was my friend. She only got mean when I stopped paying attention to her.
SUTTER: Did she say when the others were coming? All right, thanks, sweetie. You go back to bed now. We'll handle this.
CLARA: But Daddy.
PICARD: Clara, if we need your help again, I hope we can count on you.
CLARA: Yes, Captain.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain Picard, report to the Bridge.
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: Our speed is down by twenty two percent.
LAFORGE: Strand density is ten times what it was, Captain. We can't take many more of these hits.
PICARD: All stop.
WORF: Sir, something is heading toward us, bearing one oh three mark oh two four.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: It appears to be an energy vortex of highly complex patterns. Possibly a life form.
RIKER: Red alert.
DATA: It is in direct physical contact with our shields.
WORF: Shield strength dropping to seventy five percent. Seventy two percent.
RIKER: The damn thing's feeding off our shields. Mister Data, remodulate our shield frequencies.
DATA: Aye, sir. No effect.
WORF: Shield strength has dropped to sixty four percent.
LAFORGE: We've got about eight minutes before this thing drains our shields.
RIKER: Any ideas?

[Arboretum]
CLARA: Isabella? Isabella? Don't you want to talk to me? I'm not mad at you. Isabella?
PICARD: We know you've been on this ship for some time now, and that you're posing as Clara's friend, and that you've been threatening her. We can only assume that there is some connection between yourself and the life forms attacking this ship. You're obviously an intelligent being. There's no reason to hide from us. Talk to us. Or can you only communicate by threatening a small child?
CLARA: I'm scared, Isabella.
PICARD: Who are you?
ISABELLA: I came here to determine whether you were a threat to us, and to examine the purity of your energy sources.
PICARD: Energy? Is that why you're draining our shields?
ISABELLA: Yes. The emissions from your graviton field generators are far richer than our normal sources of energy.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Report.
RIKER (voiceover): Shields are down to three percent. We're diverting all available power.
PICARD: Acknowledged. If it's energy that you want, we have other ways of providing it. You needn't destroy us.
ISABELLA: You should be destroyed. You are cruel, uncaring creatures.
PICARD: What makes you say that?
ISABELLA: The way you treat Clara.
PICARD: In what way have we mistreated her?
ISABELLA: You wouldn't let her do what she wanted to, or go where she wanted to.
PICARD: You mean where you wanted her to.
ISABELLA: What difference does it make?
PICARD: You were taking her to places that were inappropriate, even dangerous.
ISABELLA: I wouldn't have let anything happen to her.
PICARD: We didn't know that. We didn't even know if you were real. All we knew was that a little girl's imaginary friend was frightening her, threatening her.
ISABELLA: That was only after you told Clara not to be my friend.
PICARD: I understand. You are seeing this ship, all of us, from a unique perspective. From a child's point of view. It must seem terribly unfair and restrictive to you. As adults, we don't always stop to consider how everything we say and do shapes the impressions of young people. But if you're judging us as a people by the way we treat our children, and I think there can be better criterion, then you must understand how deeply we care for them. When our children are young, they don't understand what might be dangerous. Our rules are to keep them from harm, real or imagined, and that's part of the continuity of our human species. When Clara grows up, she will make rules for her children to protect them, as we protect her.
CLARA: Please don't hurt us. If you still want to be my best friend, I'd like that very much.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Number One.
RIKER: We're clear of the strands. We'll have full warp capability in twenty minutes.
PICARD: Notify all sections we'll be leaving this area in one hour.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want you to drive the warp engines to full power, and direct a flow of energy out into the nebula.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Clara's bedroom]
ISABELLA: I came to say I'm sorry I frightened you.
CLARA: That's okay.
ISABELLA: And I misled you. I wasn't really your Isabella.
CLARA: For a while you were.
ISABELLA: I never had a friend before.
CLARA: I'm sorry I have to go away.
ISABELLA: Do you think you'll ever come back?
CLARA: I hope so.
ISABELLA: So do I.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45854.2. The Enterprise is charting six star systems that make up the Argolis cluster, an area being considered for colonization.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Very impressive.
TROI: It's beautiful, but frightening at the same time.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a transmission emanating from within the system.
RIKER: What sort of signal?
DATA: It is self-repeating, of unknown pattern.
PICARD: Where is it coming from?
DATA: A small moon orbiting the fourth planet.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: Indeterminate. I am attempting to screen out sensor interference. Readings are still inconclusive, however the moon's atmosphere is capable of supporting life.
RIKER: It could be a distress call. Helm, take us into transport range. Doctor Crusher, meet me in transporter room two with a medical away team.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: I'm reading one life form, very weak signs.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: We've found the wreckage of a small craft.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): One survivor. It's a Borg. Male, adolescent. He's badly hurt.
DATA: Sir, there is no indication of other Borg activity within sensor range.
PICARD: Away team, prepare to return to the ship.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Captain, we can't

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: Leave him here. He won't survive.
RIKER: I think the Captain understands that.
CRUSHER: I don't.
RIKER: The Borg usually collect their dead.
CRUSHER: He's not dead.
RIKER: The transmission
CRUSHER: At least not yet.
RIKER: The transmission that we intercepted was probably a homing signal. We have to assume they're on their way.
CRUSHER: Let me at least stabilize his condition, give him a chance of surviving until they get here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Your concern is noted, Doctor, but any intervention on our part would alert the Borg to our having been here.

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: I'm afraid we've turned that corner already.
WORF: Kill it now. Make it appear that it died in the crash.

[Bridge]
WORF (voiceover): Leave no evidence that we were ever here.
PICARD: Security measures must be taken before we beam it on board.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Thank you, Captain. Standing by.
PICARD: Mister Data, notify Security to prepare a detention cell. Bridge to Engineering.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
PICARD: We're bringing a Borg survivor on board. We'll need to neutralize the homing signal

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Prevent it from sending or receiving transmissions of any kind.
LAFORGE: I'll set up a subspace damping field around the detention cell.
PICARD (voiceover): Very well.

[Crash site]
WORF: Four more. None survived.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We are transporting you directly to the detention cell.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I need him in Sickbay, Captain.
PICARD: The cell, Doctor. Whatever equipment you need will be brought to you there.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Very well.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: Captain, I just wondered if there's anything you wanted to talk about.
PICARD: I don't think so, Counselor.
TROI: I would have thought having a Borg on the ship would stir some feelings.
PICARD: I'm quite recovered from my experience, thank you.
TROI: Sometimes even when a victim has dealt with his assault there are residual effects of the event that linger. You were treated violently by the Borg. Kidnapped, assaulted, mutilated.
PICARD: Counselor. Counselor, I very much appreciate your concern for me, but I can assure you it is quite misplaced. I have carefully considered the implications of having a Borg on this ship. I have weighed the possible risks, and I am convinced that we are doing the right thing. Now, I am quite comfortable with my decision.
TROI: I see. Well, if at any point you want to talk more.
PICARD: I shall certainly avail myself of your help.

[Brig]
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
WORF: Captain, the Borg is still unconscious.
CRUSHER: He suffered massive internal injuries. We've been able to control the hemorrhaging, but some of the implants in his brain were damaged. I may have to remove them.
PICARD: The Borg will die if they're removed permanently. Their brains grow dependent on the biochips.
CRUSHER: Perhaps Geordi can construct some new implants.
LAFORGE: They contain relatively straightforward programming, interface protocols. We have the files we downloaded after your experience, Captain. I think I can manage it.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you know enough about Borg programming to alter the pathways to their root command structure?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, sir. The subroutines are pretty complicated. I'd probably have to study the data processing algorithms. It's the only way I could trace the access codes.
PICARD: If we could get to the root command, we could introduce an invasive programming sequence through its biochip system and then return it to the hive.
LAFORGE: The Borg are so interconnected it would act like a virus.
PICARD: Which would infect the entire Collective. We could disable their neural network at a stroke.
CRUSHER: Infect it? You make it sound like a disease.
PICARD: Quite right, Doctor. If all goes well, a terminal one.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: If this works the way I think it will, once the invasive program starts spreading, it'll only be a matter of months before the Borg suffer total systems failure.
PICARD: Comments.
CRUSHER: A question. What exactly is total systems failure?
DATA: The Borg are extremely computer dependent. A systems failure will destroy them.
CRUSHER: I just think we should be plain about that. We're talking about annihilating an entire race.
PICARD: Which under most circumstances would be unconscionable. But as I see it, the Borg leave us with little choice.
RIKER: I agree. We're at war.
CRUSHER: There's been no formal declaration of war.
TROI: Not from us, but certainly from them. They've attacked us in every encounter.
PICARD: They've declared war on our way of life. We are to be assimilated.
CRUSHER: But even in war there are rules. You don't kill civilians indiscriminately.
RIKER: There are no civilians among the Borg.
PICARD: Think of them as a single, collective being. There's no one Borg who is more an individual than your arm or your leg.
CRUSHER: How convenient.
PICARD: Your point, Doctor?
CRUSHER: When I look at my patient, I don't see a collective consciousness. I don't see a hive. I see a living, breathing boy who's been hurt and who needs our help. And we're talking about sending him back to his people as an instrument of destruction.
PICARD: It comes down to this. We're faced with an enemy who are determined to destroy us, and we have no hope of negotiating a peace. Unless that changes, we are justified in doing anything we can to survive.
SECURITY (voiceover): Security to Captain.
PICARD: Picard here.
SECURITY (voiceover): The Borg has regained consciousness, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. We proceed with the plan.

[Brig]
CRUSHER: What's he doing?
PICARD: He's trying to find an access terminal so he can interface with the collective. He doesn't understand that the signal has been cut off.
LAFORGE: He's emitting a homing signal and a second subspace beacon, but our damping field is blocking both signals.
PICARD: He's alone. For the first time he's being forced to cope with his environment without the resources of the Collective.
CRUSHER: He must be hungry. The Borg don't ingest food. Their implants can synthesize any organic molecules the biological tissues require. What they need is energy.
PICARD: Arrange to feed it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I'll have to adapt a power conduit and install it in there.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know better, I'd think he was scared.

[Gymnasium]
GUINAN: I don't think I like this sport.
PICARD: Last week when you scored two touches, you liked it well enough. Today you were dropping your foil. You kept letting me inside.
GUINAN: Ah, but if I lift up, you lunge right underneath. Let's face it, you're just better at this than I am. I understand we have a guest on board.
PICARD: Yes.
GUINAN: Is that wise?
PICARD: I'm not sure. I hope so.
GUINAN: I thought I understood you, Picard, but I don't understand this.
PICARD: It was an errand of mercy. He was injured, Doctor Crusher decided for humanitarian reasons to care for him.
GUINAN: They're going to come after us, you know that. You, of all people, know that.
PICARD: Shall we go again?
PICARD: Are you all right?
GUINAN: You felt sorry for me. Look what it got you.

[Brig]
LAFORGE: I'll have to go in to connect the power conduit.
WORF: I will follow the Commander. Reactivate the field once we're through.
LAFORGE: Good. Now stay that way.
WORF: Commander.
BORG: We are Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
LAFORGE: Just look around, pal. You're hardly in a position to make any demands.
BORG: We must return to the Collective.
LAFORGE: Who's we?
BORG: We are Borg.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's only one of you. Do you have a name? A means of identification?
BORG: Third of five.
LAFORGE: There were five on your ship. Is that it? Just a number?
BORG: Third of five.
LAFORGE: It does kind of suit you. Okay. This is for you. It regulates the power flow to the frequency that you're used to. This connection should fit the coupling on your arm. You're welcome. Let's get out of here.
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
LAFORGE: He's hungry, all right.
BORG: Why do you do this?
LAFORGE: I'm just a nice guy at heart. You feeling better?
BORG: You are not Borg.
LAFORGE: That's right. And I hope to stay that way.
BORG: You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
LAFORGE: That's gratitude for you.

[Science lab]
LAFORGE: I've been rationing his portions of energy. I think he understands. When he cooperates, he gets fed. If not.
CRUSHER: Like a rat in a cage.
LAFORGE: Look, if I'm going to figure out his command pathways, I need to learn how he processes information, and the only way I know to do that is by giving him perceptual tests. And for that, I need his cooperation.
CRUSHER: So he can participate in the destruction of his entire species.
LAFORGE: Doctor.
CRUSHER: I know, I know. We're at war. I'm here to help but I don't have to like it.
LAFORGE: Okay, I think we're ready to transport him. If he gives us any trouble, we can access the force field through that console. Are you ready?
LAFORGE: La Forge to transporter room three. We're ready here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): We're standing by, Commander.
LAFORGE: Energize.
LAFORGE: Third of Five, this is Doctor Crusher. Doctor Crusher, this is Third of Five.
CRUSHER: Hello.
BORG: What is a doctor?
CRUSHER: A doctor heals the sick and repairs the injured.
BORG: The sick and injured are reabsorbed. Others take their place.
CRUSHER: That isn't what happen to you. When we found you, you were dying. I saved your life.
BORG: Why?
CRUSHER: It's my duty to help those who are hurt.
BORG: You give us food.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
BORG: Is that your duty?
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's right. Listen, Third of Five, Doctor Crusher here has repaired a lot of the damage to your biochip implants. We want to run a few tests, make sure everything's working okay.
BORG: Tests?
CRUSHER: I'd like to show you a few diagrams and ask you some questions about them. It's very simple really.
BORG: You will be assimilated.
LAFORGE: Yes, but before that happens, could we ask you a few questions?
BORG: We will answer.
LAFORGE: Terrific. All right, hang on just a second here, Third of Five.
BORG: What is your designation?
LAFORGE: Designation?
BORG: Third of Five.
CRUSHER: You mean our names. We don't have designations. We have names. I'm Beverly. This is Geordi.
BORG: Do I have a name?
LAFORGE: Do you want one?
BORG: A name.
CRUSHER: I'm Beverly, he's Geordi, and you.
BORG: You
CRUSHER: You
LAFORGE: No, no, wait a minute. That's it. Hugh. What do you think?
BORG: You.
LAFORGE: No, not you. Hugh.
BORG: Hugh.
CRUSHER: Okay. Now, I'm Beverly.
LAFORGE: I'm Geordi.
BORG: We are Hugh.
CRUSHER: Now imagine what this shape would look like if it were turned inside out. Which one is it?
BORG: This one.
CRUSHER: That's right. He's gotten every one. Eight out of eight. That blows the top right off the spatial-acuity percentiles.
LAFORGE: It's the prosthetic eye. It seems to be giving him very complex visual information.
CRUSHER: Like some kind of holographic imaging system.
LAFORGE: That could be helpful. Hugh, I'd like to take a closer look at your eyepiece. Is that okay?
BORG: Here.
LAFORGE: Thanks.
BORG: When you are assimilated, you will have a similar device.
CRUSHER: Hugh, do you understand we don't want to be assimilated?
BORG: Why do you resist us?
CRUSHER: Because we don't want to live the way you do.
BORG: Here it is quiet. There are no other voices.
LAFORGE: Other voices?
BORG: On a Borg ship we live with the thoughts of the others in our minds. Thousands of voices with us always.
CRUSHER: I think what you're saying is that you're lonely.
LAFORGE: Here.
BORG: When you have completed these tests, what will be done with us?
LAFORGE: We'll er, we'll send you home.
BORG: We will rejoin the Collective.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: You know, it's funny. When I first creating this invasive program I didn't have a problem with it. The more I work with Hugh, the more I
GUINAN: Hugh?
LAFORGE: That's what we call him.
GUINAN: You named the Borg?
LAFORGE: Well, it was easier to have something to call him.
GUINAN: Oh, so now you have a Borg named Hugh.
LAFORGE: Right. And he's nothing like what I expected.
GUINAN: How so?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like he's just some kid who's far way from home.
GUINAN: Do you know that you're the second person today to refer to that Borg as though it were some sort of lost child.
LAFORGE: Anyway, I'm having second thoughts about what we're doing here. I mean, programming him like some sort of walking bomb. Sending him back to destroy the others.
GUINAN: Let me tell you something. When that kid's big brothers come looking for him, they're not going to stop until they find him. And then they're going to come looking for us, and they will destroy us. And they will not do any of the soul-searching that you are apparently doing right now.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you go and talk to him. It might not be so clear cut then.
GUINAN: Because I wouldn't have anything to say.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you just listen? That is what you do best, isn't it?

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One?
RIKER: We've picked up a vessel on the long range scanners, headed this way.
PICARD: Analysis.
DATA: The vessel is traveling at warp seven point six. Mass two point five million metric tons. Configuration, cubical.
RIKER: The Borg.
DATA: Its dimensions indicate that it is a scout ship similar to the one that crashed. Interference from the star's radiation will shield us from their sensors. We should remain undetected until they enter the system.
PICARD: How long do we have?
DATA: At present speed they will arrive in thirty one hours seven minutes.

[Brig]
GUINAN: You don't look so tough.
BORG: We are Borg.
GUINAN: Aren't you going to tell me you have to assimilate me?
BORG: You wish to be assimilated?
GUINAN: No, but that's what you things do, isn't it?
GUINAN: Resistance is futile.
BORG: Resistance is futile.
GUINAN: It isn't. My people resisted when the Borg came to assimilate us. Some of us survived.
BORG: Resistance is not futile?
GUINAN: No. But thanks to you, there are very few of us left. We're scattered throughout the galaxy. We don't even have a home any more.
BORG: What you are saying is that you are lonely.
GUINAN: What?
BORG: You have no others. You have no home. We are also lonely.

[Science lab]
BORG: What is Geordi doing?
LAFORGE: I'm studying the components in your prosthesis.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: We're trying to learn more about you.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: Because you're different than we are. Part of what we do is to learn more about other species.
BORG: We assimilate species. Then we know everything about them.
LAFORGE: Yeah. I know.
BORG: Is that not easier?
LAFORGE: Maybe it is. It's just not what we do.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: All right, think of it this way. Every time you talk about yourself, you use the word we. We want this, we want that. You don't even know how to think of yourself as a single individual. You don't say, I want this, or I am Hugh. We are all separate individuals. I am Geordi. I choose what I want to do with my life. I make decisions for myself. For somebody like me, losing that sense of individuality is almost worse than dying.
BORG: When you sleep, there are no other voices in your mind?
LAFORGE: No.
BORG: Are you ever lonely?
LAFORGE: Sometimes. But that's why we have friends.
BORG: Friends?
LAFORGE: Sure. Someone you talk to, who will be with you when you're lonely. Someone who makes you feel better.
BORG: Like Geordi and Hugh.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain.
PICARD: It looks harmless enough.
LAFORGE: We had to disguise it as something innocuous. The Borg have ways of screening out program anomalies.
PICARD: How can a geometric form disable a computer system?
DATA: The shape is a paradox, sir. It cannot exist in real space or time.
LAFORGE: When Hugh's imaging apparatus imprints this on his biochips, he'll try to analyze it.
DATA: He will be unsuccessful, and will store the shape in his memory banks. It will be shunted to a subroutine for further analysis.
LAFORGE: Then when the Borg download his memory, it'll be incorporated it into their network, then they'll try to analyze it.
DATA: It is designed so that each approach they take will spawn an anomalous solution. The anomalies are designed to interact with each other, linking together to form an endless and unsolvable puzzle.
PICARD: Quite original. How long before a total systems failure?
LAFORGE: Not until the shape has gone through several hundred computational cycles.
PICARD: When can you begin the process?
LAFORGE: About another twenty hours. Doctor Crusher wants to make sure the new implants have taken hold.
PICARD: Very well. Begin as soon as you're ready.
LAFORGE: Captain. I have to admit I've been having second thoughts about this plan.
PICARD: In what way?
LAFORGE: Well, I've been getting to know him. The Borg.
PICARD: I see.
LAFORGE: He's not what I expected, Captain. He's got feelings. He's homesick. I don't know. It just doesn't seem right using him this way.
PICARD: Centuries ago, when laboratory animals were used for experiments, scientists would sometimes become attached to the creatures. This would a problem if the experiment involved killing them. I would suggest that you unattach yourself from the Borg, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Guinan. Please, come in.
GUINAN: Are you sure? You look like you're preparing for a quiet evening.
PICARD: No, I'm delighted to see you. Can I get you something to drink?
GUINAN: No, thank you. I was thinking about how you said the other day that my foil was dipping. That I should get some exercise and strengthen my arm.
PICARD: Well. a strong forearm is certainly an advantage in fencing.
GUINAN: And bartending. About the Borg. Aren't you the least bit surprised by him?
PICARD: Surprised?
GUINAN: Did you know he has a name? La Forge gave it to him. His name's Hugh. And he's lonely. I don't know what made me go see him. La Forge said I should, but I said no. And suddenly there I was standing there, staring at him. I thought it was just curiosity. Just curious. I need to hear you say that you are sure you're doing the right thing.
PICARD: If you're here to persuade me not to use the invasive program.
GUINAN: No. I think I need you to persuade me.
PICARD: Two days ago, you were so upset about the Borg even being on the ship that you tore my foil out of my hand. And now you're here questioning whether it should be treated as the enemy.
GUINAN: No. But when you talk to him face to face, can you honestly say you don't have any doubt?
PICARD: I haven't talked to it.
GUINAN: Why not?
PICARD: I saw no need.
GUINAN: If you're going to use this person
PICARD: It's not a person, damn it, it's a Borg!
GUINAN: If you are going to use this person to destroy his race, you should at least look him in the eye once before you do it. Because I am not sure he is still a Borg.
PICARD: Because it's been given a name by a member of my crew doesn't mean it's not a Borg. Because it's young doesn't mean that it's innocent. It is what it is, and in spite of efforts to turn it into some kind of pet I will not alter my plans.
GUINAN: Fine. But if you don't talk to him at least once, you may find that decision a harder to live with than you realize.

[Ready room]
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant.
WORF (voiceover): We are ready to transport.
PICARD: Proceed.
PICARD: Lieutenant, you may wait outside.
BORG: Locutus.
PICARD: Yes. I am Locutus of Borg.
BORG: Why are you here?
PICARD: This is a primitive culture. I am here to facilitate its incorporation. Identify yourself.
BORG: Hugh.
PICARD: Identify yourself.
BORG: We are Hugh.
PICARD: This is not a Borg identification.
BORG: Third of Five.
PICARD: This culture will be assimilated.
BORG: They do not wish it.
PICARD: Irrelevant.
BORG: They will resist us.
PICARD: Resistance is futile.
BORG: Resistance is not futile. Some have escaped.
PICARD: They will be found. It is inevitable. All will be assimilated.
BORG: Must Geordi be assimilated?
PICARD: Yes.
BORG: He does not wish it. He would rather die than be assimilated.
PICARD: Then he will die.
BORG: No. Geordi must not die. Geordi is a friend.
PICARD: You will assist us to assimilate this vessel. You are Borg. You will assist us.
BORG: I will not.
PICARD: What did you say?
BORG: I will not assist you.
PICARD: I?
BORG: Geordi must not be assimilated.
PICARD: But you are Borg.
BORG: No. I am Hugh.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I think I deliberately avoided speaking with the Borg because I didn't want anything to get in the way of our plan. But now that I have, he seems to be a fully realized individual. He has even accepted me as Picard, Captain of this ship, and not as Locutus.
LAFORGE: So you've reconsidered the plan?
PICARD: Yes. To use him in this manner, we'd be no better than the enemy that we seek to destroy. So, I want other options.
RIKER: We could return him to the crash site. We'd have to remove his memory of being on the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: But if we erase his memory, who he is or who he has become would be destroyed.
RIKER: Isn't that the point? He'd be reassimilated into the hive without any questions.
LAFORGE: Does that seems right, to help him become an individual and then take that away from him?
CRUSHER: Is there any danger that the Borg might destroy him if they find out what's happened?
PICARD: I doubt it. There'd be nothing to gain. It's more likely that they would simply wipe out his memory of those experiences.
RIKER: Then either way, his memory would have been erased.
PICARD: But perhaps in that short time before they purge his memory, the sense of individuality which he has gained here might be transmitted throughout the entire Borg Collective. Every one of the Borg being given the opportunity to experience the feeling of singularity. Perhaps that's the most pernicious program of all. The knowledge of self being spread throughout the Collective, in that brief moment, might alter them forever. We leave his memory intact.
CRUSHER: I have a question. What if he doesn't want to go back?

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: Hello, Hugh.
BORG: Hello, Geordi.
PICARD: Hugh, a Borg rescue vessel is approaching. It will be here within three hours. We can return you to the crash site, where they will find you and take then you home. Or, if you wish, you can stay here with us.
BORG: What I wish is irrelevant.
LAFORGE: It's not irrelevant, Hugh. It matters to us.
BORG: No Borg leaves the Collective. If they find I am missing, they will come for me.
PICARD: Well, we'll deal with the repercussions later. We must know what you want.
BORG: You are many, I am one. What I want is not important.
LAFORGE: Don't you understand, Hugh? We're giving you a choice.
BORG: Choice?
LAFORGE: Yes, a choice. Do you want to go back with the Borg or stay with us?
BORG: I could stay with you?
PICARD: We could grant you asylum, Hugh.
BORG: Choose what I want? I would choose to stay with Geordi, but it is too dangerous. They will follow. Return me to the crash site. It is the only way.
LAFORGE: Hugh, think about this. Are you sure?
BORG: Yes.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: The Borg ship will enter orbit in one hour. You'll soon be headed home. We'll beam him down and then we'll take up a position in the star's chromosphere. The interference will hide us from their sensors.
CRUSHER: Goodbye, Hugh. It was nice getting to know you.
BORG: Goodbye, Beverly. You saved my life.
LAFORGE: Hugh, it's not too late to change your mind.
BORG: I must return.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to go down with him.
PICARD: My experience suggests that they would ignore him. Would you agree?
BORG: The Borg assimilate civilizations, not individuals.
CRUSHER: But, Captain, they kidnapped you.
PICARD: Because they needed a liaison to communicate with humans. They ignored every away team we sent to their ship, including yours, Doctor. You may accompany him. Goodbye.
BORG: Captain, I do not want to forget that I am Hugh.
PICARD: Energize.

[Crash site]
LAFORGE: We found you there, in the middle of that debris.
BORG: Then that is where I will wait.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are now entering position. Radiation levels are rising.
PICARD: Increase power to the shields. Hold us here.
RIKER: Status of the Borg ship?
DATA: Solar radiation is rendering our sensors inoperable. At last known course and speed, the Borg vessel should enter the system in three minutes.

[Crash site]
LAFORGE: Well, I guess this is it, huh? So long, Hugh.
BORG: Goodbye, Geordi. I will try to remember you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Time, Mister Data?
DATA: We will arrive within transporter range in three minutes twenty one seconds.
MCDOWELL: I've finally established audio contact with the Romulan ship.
ROMULAN (voiceover): Main power failing. No way to stop the overload.
PICARD: Enterprise to Romulan vessel. We are en route to your position.
ROMULAN (voiceover): Enterprise, what is your time of arrival? We are facing an imminent core breach.
PICARD: Repeat your last transmission.
MCDOWELL: I'm sorry, Captain. They've stopped transmitting.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: Transport to the Romulan ship as soon as we're within range.
RIKER: Aye, sir. No weapons. We don't want them to think they're under attack.
RO: This is not a bright idea.
RIKER: I beg your pardon, Ensign. I didn't quite catch that.
RO: Nothing, sir.

[Romulan Engineering]
VOICES (voiceover): All main thrusters are shut down. Your information is unreliable. The AH is inoperative. Give me a hand here.
RIKER: We're from the Federation Starship Enterprise. We received your distress call.
MIROK: The Enterprise?
RIKER: That's right. Your message said you'd suffered a failure in your engine core.
MIROK: Yes. We had a forced chamber explosion in the resonator coil.
LAFORGE: It's a pretty strange set up, but it looks like the graviton field generator has been completely depolarized. There's no way to fix it. It'll have to be replaced.
RIKER: Where are your replicators?
VAREL: They are offline.
RIKER: Who's in charge here?
MIROK: The Captain is dead. I'm the science officer. Mirok.
RIKER: We'd like to move the generator back to the Enterprise for replication.
MIROK: All right.
RIKER: Geordi, you and Ro.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Brossmer. Two people and one piece of equipment to beam aboard.

[Transporter room]
BROSSMER: Aye, sir.
BROSSMER: What the hell? Engineering, I need more power to the primary energizing coil. Brossmer to Commander Riker. I'm losing them I have to abort.

[Romulan Engineering]
BROSSMER (voiceover): They should be returning to your coordinates, sir.
RIKER: Chief, do you have them? They're not here.
BROSSMER (voiceover): No, sir.
RIKER: Where are they?

[Transporter room]
BROSSMER: I can't locate their patterns.

[Romulan Engineering]
BROSSMER (voiceover): We've lost them, sir.

[Bridge]
BROSSMER (voiceover): I've done all I can, sir. I'm afraid they're gone.
PICARD: Mister Data, begin a level one diagnostic. All transporter systems offline until further notice. Could they have materialized somewhere else?
DATA: Negative, Captain. Sensors are unable to locate them anywhere within transporter range.
PICARD: Counselor?
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Enterprise.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Romulan Engineering]
RIKER: Captain, we're still looking at a core breach unless we can fashion a new graviton generator.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): I need replacement personnel, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, you may continue the diagnostic of the transporter systems at another time. Take a shuttlecraft and two more engineers down to the Romulan ship.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister McDowell, alert the main shuttlebay to have all available ships and pilots standing by in case we need them.
MCDOWELL: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course away from the Romulan vessel. Engage at warp one if you detect any sign it's going to explode.

[Romulan Engineering]
MIROK: Pressure in the containment chamber has increased fifteen melakols in the last two minutes.
RIKER: What can we do to stop the overload?
MIROK: Most of the conduits were damaged during the explosion. I can't even access the central computer.
WORF: Commander. Emergency bulkheads have sealed this section off from the rest of the ship. There is no way to gain access to the main Bridge or control centers.
RIKER: Survivors?
WORF: Readings indicate at least seventy three Romulans are still alive.
VAREL: Seventy three.
MIROK: The pressure has jumped two hundred melakols!
VAREL: I've lost control of the containment chamber.
MIROK: It's going to implode.
RIKER: We'll need to dump the entire engine core. Do you have an auto-eject system?
MIROK: Yes, but it's not functioning. I'll have to do it manually.
RIKER: Mister Worf, you two seal the chamber.
VAREL: Implosion will occur in one minute five seconds.
RIKER: Enterprise, we need to jettison the entire engine core. You'll need to extend the shields once it clears the hull.
PICARD (voiceover): Understood, Number One. We'll stand by for your signal.
WORF: We must get the doors closed.
WORF: Commander!
RIKER: Time?
VAREL: Thirty seconds.
MIROK: I'm ready, Commander.
RIKER: Stay there! Eject the chamber on my order!
DATA: Excuse me, sir.
MIROK: Implosion in five seconds)
RIKER: Now.
RIKER: Enterprise, extend shields!
RIKER: Well, we're still here.
MIROK: Yes.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): We'll have a complete power survey done within the hour. We'll probably have to supply them with energy for life support, and they'll need a new engine core to get home.
PICARD: Understood, Commander. Keep us informed of your efforts. Picard out. I'll be in Sickbay.
MCDOWELL: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
RO: Ensign Ro to the Bridge. This is Ensign Ro reporting in. I'm at section twenty three baker, near Sickbay. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
RO: Excuse me, I need some help. Excuse me? Excuse me, I need some help.
RO: Excuse me! I need some help!

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: We shouldn't make any hasty decisions, Jean-Luc. The transporter could've beamed them somewhere else. The Romulan ship, another deck of the Enterprise.
PICARD: We've already checked those possibilities. The initial findings would seen to indicate that there was a radiation surge from the Romulan engine core which disrupted the signal. They never rematerialized.
CRUSHER: We should check again. There might be something that we've overlooked and
PICARD: Beverly, we've done everything that we can.
CRUSHER: You're right. I just hate making out death certificates. Does Ensign Ro have any family?
RO: Captain, I'm right here.
PICARD: None that I know of, but I'll check with the Bajoran liaison Office.
RO: I'm not dead!
CRUSHER: I'll have the official reports ready within the hour.
RO: Captain, I don't know what's going on
RO: Doctor. Doctor Crusher. Doctor Crusher, I'm right here. Damn it.

[Romulan Engineering]
MIROK: We're ready, Commander.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Begin power transfer.
MIROK: The power flow is consistent at four hundred kolems. No fluctuations in frequency. The main power grid is online.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Riker here. Power transfer appears stable at this end, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Good.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is the status of the engine replacement?
RIKER (voiceover): Engineering is modifying one of our subspace resonators to act as a new engine core. It won't do more than warp two, but it'll get them home.
PICARD: Very well.
DATA: Captain. The diagnostic of the transporter system shows an anomalous energy fluctuation. I will need to inspect the imaging scanner in transporter room three.
PICARD: By all means.
DATA: Captain? I have a personal favor to ask. I considered Commander La Forge to be my best friend. I believe it is my responsibility to plan and conduct the memorial service. May I have your permission to do so?
PICARD: Permission granted. Make whatever arrangements you think are appropriate.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Romulan Engineering]
WORF: Commander, the the Romulans want a computer. We cannot give them access to Federation technology. That is an unacceptable security risk.
RIKER: What about a computer core from thirty or forty years ago? One the Romulans are already familiar with.
WORF: That would be satisfactory.
RIKER: Check with the Enterprise, see what's available. Be sure your concern are addressed before we install it.
WORF: Aye, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]
RO: La Forge?
LAFORGE: Ro. Boy, am I glad to see you. And I'm really glad that you can see me. It's like I'm here, but I'm not here.
RO: No one can see me either.
LAFORGE: I can't figure it out. One minute we were transporting from the Romulan vessel, and the next I wake up in the arboretum with a splitting headache. Can you pass through things like bulkheads?
RO: Tables, people, yeah.
LAFORGE: Well, we're solid enough to each other.
RO: It's not what you expected, is it.
LAFORGE: What do you mean?
RO: This. Death.
LAFORGE: What?
RO: We're dead, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Is that some kind of a joke?
RO: Our patterns were lost in a transporter malfunction. We never rematerialized after leaving the Romulan ship.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. What are you saying, that we're some sort of spirits?
RO: Spirits, souls. My people used to call them borhyas. Whatever term you want to use, we're it.
LAFORGE: But my uniform, my visor. Are you saying I'm some blind ghost with clothes?
RO: I don't have all the answers. I've never been dead before.
LAFORGE: We are not dead.
RO: According to Doctor Crusher, we died in a transporter malfunction at fourteen thirty hours. Geordi, I saw her make out the death certificates. We need to make peace with our former lives. That's what I was taught. We have to say goodbye to the people who were in our lives.
LAFORGE: No. You may be ready for the afterlife, but I'm not.
RO: I don't see that we have much of a choice. When I was growing up, I never gave much thought to all the talk about borhyas. I figured that it was just superstition passed on to children.
LAFORGE: Fine. You go make peace with yourself, all right? I'm going to transporter room three. I'm going to figure a way out of this situation.

[Transporter room]
BROSSMER: I didn't have any warning that something would go wrong, sir. Suddenly their patterns just weren't there.
DATA: I believe the cause of the accident may be related to the explosion on the Romulan ship.
LAFORGE: Really?
BROSSMER: But that happened before we even arrived.
DATA: In all likelihood, the explosion damaged the Romulan cloaking device, causing it to discharge chroniton particles. I am detecting a chroniton field in here.
LAFORGE: A chroniton field?
BROSSMER: If the particles were produced on the Romulan ship, why are you detecting them here?
LAFORGE: The transporter beam.
DATA: I suspect they traveled through the transporter beam. That may have been the cause of Geordi and Ro's death. I will go to the Romulan ship. Perhaps I can discover the source of the emissions.
BROSSMER: Commander, are these chronitons dangerous?
DATA: They pose no danger to humans. However, some of the ship's systems may be affected by prolonged exposure. When I return I will devise a method to eradicate them.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Ensign Ro.

[Bridge]
RO: Thanks for the ride. I'm here to say goodbye.
RIKER: There are a lot of what appear to be experimental engine components lying around over there. I'd say they were testing a new warp drive design and it blew up in their faces.

[Ready room]
PICARD: That would explain why they're so far away from Romulan space. To avoid being picked up on Federation long range scans.
RIKER: We should have an engine core ready for them by nineteen hundred hours.
PICARD: Commander, there'll be a memorial service at twenty three hundred hours this evening. Mister Data is making arrangements.
RIKER: I'll be there.
RO: Me, too.
RIKER: In fact I might like to say a few words.
PICARD: You did know La Forge longer than any of us.
RIKER: Actually, I was thinking more about Ensign Ro.
RO: Me?
PICARD: When you're ready, coordinate with Mister Data.
RO: Wait a minute. What are you going to say about me?
RO: Captain. I don't believe this. I'm dead. you can't even hear me and I'm still intimidated by you. I just wanted to say thank you. For trusting in me when no one else would.
LAFORGE: Hey, there you are. Excuse me, Captain. Listen, Data's taking the next shuttle over to the Romulan vessel and we need to be on it.
RO: Why?
LAFORGE: because I think what happened to us, the answers are over there.
RO: Why can't you just accept the fact
LAFORGE: Look, if you're right then we're dead and this doesn't make any difference. But if I'm right, then we're still alive and I'm going to need your help.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Lieutenant, I am planning a memorial service for Commander La Forge and Ensign Ro. I would like you to participate.
WORF: What kind of service?
DATA: Captain Picard asked me to arrange a ceremony that was appropriate. I have given a great deal of thought as to what is appropriate in this instance.
WORF: Sir, shuttlecraft four has not yet cleared the Romulan ship.
DATA: Hold position here.
LAFORGE: This is weird, listening to them plan our funeral.
DATA: I find I am having difficulty deciding what kind of service to have. Do you have any suggestions?
WORF: Human custom is to conduct a solemn, dignified service in which the dead are praised by their friends and loved ones.
DATA: Ensign Ro was Bajoran. Her beliefs should be reflected as well. However their death rituals are quite complicated.
RO: Please, not the Death Chant.
WORF: The Bajoran Death Chant is over two hours long.
DATA: I am not certain that either human or Bajoran rites are fitting, and I have researched the funerary customs of over five thousand cultures to no avail.
WORF: Shuttlecraft four has just cleared.
DATA: Resume course. In almost all societies, it is traditional to say a ritual farewell to those you call friends. I never knew what a friend was until I met Geordi. He spoke to me as though I were human. He treated me no differently from anyone else. He accepted me for what I am. And that, I have learned, is friendship. But I do not know how to say goodbye.
RO: He seems almost human, doesn't he.
WORF: Commander, I am not the proper person to advise you.
DATA: Why?
WORF: I am very happy for Commander La Forge. He has crossed over to that which is beyond. For a Klingon, this is a joyful time. A friend has died in the line of duty and he has earned a place among the honored dead. It is not a time to mourn.
DATA: Begin docking procedure.
LAFORGE: Data, that's a nice sentiment, but a little premature. I don't plan on being commemorated before my time.

[Romulan Engineering]
MIROK: I'm afraid I fail to see the point of this investigation, Commander.
DATA: Chroniton emissions may have been responsible for the accident which claimed the lives of our officers.
VAREL: A most regrettable event, of course.
DATA: Was your cloaking device damaged in the explosion?
MIROK: All of our systems were damaged, including the cloaking device.
DATA: That explains the chroniton fields I am detecting in here now. For your own safety, it is important to eliminate those emissions.
VAREL: Our safety?
DATA: There is no way to predict what will happen when the chronitons interact with the new engine core.
LAFORGE: I've never seen anything like this. There's something in here that looks like a molecular phase inverter.
RO: What's that?
LAFORGE: It's supposed to change the structure of matter so it can pass through normal matter and energy. Hang on a second. A few years back, we got intelligence reports that the Klingons were working on trying to combine a phase inverter and a cloaking device. In theory, they believed that a phased ship could hide anywhere, even inside a planet, and that conventional weapons would be useless against it.
RO: How far did they get in their research?
LAFORGE: It never got out of the preliminary stages. There were several accidents. The Romulans might be pursuing the same technology, trying to combine an inverter and a cloaking device. And if this is the prototype
RO: Then that would explain the explosion and the chroniton fields.
LAFORGE: And us.
RO: You mean we're cloaked?
LAFORGE: Not just cloaked, phased. Our entire molecular structure altered so that we don't have any substance.
RO: Then that would mean we're not dead.
LAFORGE: Yes. It would also mean that there's probably a way to de-phase us.
DATA: The field emissions are particularly strong in this area.
MIROK: You can be assured that the emissions will be eliminated before the engine core is replaced.
WORF: Commander, may I speak with you?
VAREL: If they come back they're going to discover the interphase generator.
MIROK: Is their power transfer beam still at full intensity?
VAREL: Yes. It will be until we're ready to switch to internal power.
MIROK: We will set up a muon feedback wave inside the transfer beam. The particles will accumulate in their dilithium chamber. When they go to warp speed, their engines will explode.
LAFORGE: We've got to get to the Enterprise and warn them.
RO: How?
LAFORGE: I don't know, but we have to find a way. Come on.

[Engineering]
RO: The muon feedback wave's not showing up on any of the engine displays.
LAFORGE: The Romulans must be hiding it in a sensor return signal. Unless someone runs a level three diagnostic, they'd never detect it. There must be a way to warn them before the ship goes to warp.
DATA: This is puzzling. Three more chroniton fields have formed aboard the Enterprise in the last hour.
LAFORGE: There's no reason why the interphase device would be producing new fields aboard this ship.
DATA: We should begin decontamination immediately. Run an internal sensor sweep for locations of all chroniton fields on the Enterprise.
BROSSMER: Aye, sir. The following areas are showing contamination. Sickbay, Transporter room three, main Bridge, Captain's Ready room, shuttlebay two, and main Engineering.
LAFORGE: Ro, look at this.
DATA: I do not understand how these new fields have formed. No transporter beam has been active in any of those areas. I cannot see that they have anything in common.
LAFORGE: Oh, yes they do.
DATA: In fact, they seem to be appearing at random.
LAFORGE: No, they're not. We were in every one of those locations. Somehow we're leaving chroniton footprints behind us.
DATA: Can you narrow the focus of the scan to pinpoint the locations?
BROSSMER: Not with the internal sensors, Commander.
DATA: Go to science station two on the main Bridge. Use a lateral sensor array to get a more precise reading. I will modify an anyon emitter to eliminate the fields once they've been isolated.
LAFORGE: Why don't you go with her and see what the lateral sensors turn up. I'll stay here with Data.
RO: Right.
LAFORGE: Well that's interesting. You're reading chroniton readings in here, but not from me? There's a field in this wall? Why? Data, I came through this wall. I walked right through it when I came in here. When the phased matter in my body passed through the wall, it must've disrupted the wall's molecular structure producing a chroniton field. Data, I'm right here that's me you're reading. Watch.
LAFORGE: Come on, it's me. You see?

[Bridge]
PAREM: Do not move. Yes, I can see you.
RO: Who are you?
PAREM: Where is the scientific officer? The one like us. The one who came with you to our ship. He spoke of a plan to return to normal. Yes, this disruptor works. I was wearing it when I was changed. Now, where is he?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, stop being so rational. Try using your imagination once in a while. These aren't just random patterns, it's me!
LAFORGE: Hey, watch where you point that thing. Wait a minute, Data, I think you did something here . It's not so easy to push through any more. The molecules in my hand must have been partially de-phased by the anyon beam. Data, if a low level beam can bring my hand part of the way back, maybe a high level beam can bring me all of the way back. I'll just have to get you to turn up the beam intensity so that. Hey, wait a minute, don't stop now. No, no, no. Data, don't give up on it. It works, I was just creating more fields. Your method is fine. You just need to turn up the intensity, Data.

[Corridor]
RO: He's in here.

[Engineering]
BROSSMER (voiceover): Brossmer to Commander Data.
DATA: Data here.
BROSSMER (voiceover): I've just detected a large chroniton field on deck seventeen. The field strength is three hundred percent above the others we've found, sir.
LAFORGE: Is that Ro?
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Crew quarters]
PAREM: Get up. Where is the science officer?
MAN: I'll go. Commander?
DATA: Excuse me for interrupting, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Ro!
DATA: I'm detecting a chroniton field in your room. May I scan the area?
MAN: Certainly.
RO: Thanks.
LAFORGE: Any time.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: There's still no indication that the Romulans set up a muon wave in our dilithium chamber.
RO: It's there, and when they go to warp
MCDOWELL: Incoming message from the Romulan ship, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
LAFORGE: Now what?
MIROK (screen): Installation of the new engine core has been completed. We are ready to switch to internal power, Enterprise.
PICARD: Understood. Disconnect the power-transfer beam.
MIROK (screen): We are now on internal power. Captain Picard, please accept my sincere thanks on behalf the Romulan Empire.
RO: Don't listen to him, Captain.
PICARD: It was our pleasure, Mirok. And I hope that this example of cooperation between our two peoples will not be an isolated incident.
MIROK (screen): As do I, Captain.
PICARD: Set a course for the Garadius system. Warp six.
LAFORGE: No, Captain wait.
RO: Don't do it, sir.
BROSSMER: Captain. I'm still running the decontamination program. Mister Data believes we shouldn't engage the warp drive until I've cleared all the chroniton fields from the ship.
PICARD: Very well. Let me know when you finished your sweep.
BROSSMER: Yes, sir.
RO: If we can get to the locations that she's decontaminating, maybe the anyon emissions would re-phase us enough for someone to see us.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well the beam strength would have to be pretty strong in order for us to be visible for more than a millisecond. Somebody's going to have to be looking directly at us.
RO: Then we're going to have to go somewhere with an awful lot of people.
RIKER: It's time, sir. We should go.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Mister McDowell. I'll be at the service in Ten Forward.
LAFORGE: Ten Forward? Well, that's perfect. We'll create as many chroniton fields in there as we can. Get them to flood that room with a stronger beam.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck ten. I've been thinking about the first time I met Geordi La Forge. He was a young officer assigned to pilot me on an inspection tour, and I made some off hand remark about the shuttle's engine efficiency not being what it should. And the next morning I found that he'd stayed up all night refitting the fusion initiators. Well, I knew then that I wanted him with me on my next command. Have you decided what you're going to say about Ensign Ro?
RIKER: Yes, I have. It wasn't easy.
PICARD: Situations like these are never easy, Number One.
RO: Why? What wasn't easy? What?

[Ten Forward]
RO: What is going on here?
LAFORGE: It's our memorial service.
RO: This?
LAFORGE: Why not?
RO: I don't believe this. They think we're dead and they're having a party.
LAFORGE: Yeah. It's perfect. Come on, let's get started.
PICARD: Well, this is unusual.
RIKER: Yeah, I think I like it.
RO: Now I suppose I'll never know what you were going to say about me.
DATA: Do you think the others will think this service appropriate?
CRUSHER: Look around you, Data. Everybody is sharing their memories of Geordi and Ro, laughing and talking. What could be more appropriate than that?
DATA: I am glad you approve, Doctor.
BROSSMER (voiceover): Brossmer to Commander Data.
DATA: Go ahead, Chief.
BROSSMER (voiceover): I'm sorry to disturb you, sir. We've cleared the critical areas of chronitons but we've detected a new field forming in Ten Forward that's stronger than any we've seen before.

[Bridge]
BROSSMER: Should I wait until after the service is over before beginning decontamination?
DATA (voiceover): No.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: No. Anyon emissions are harmless. Please begin immediately.
BROSSMER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Here we go.
LAFORGE: Worf! Worf, can you see us?
RO: Lieutenant!
LAFORGE: We're right here, Worf. Damn.
RO: We have to find a way to increase the emission strength.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I know.
PICARD: if she hadn't lost her rank as a result of that incident at Garon Four, I think she would've made Lieutenant Commander by now.
MCDOWELL (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
MCDOWELL (voiceover): Incoming message from Garadius Four, sir. The diplomatic situation is deteriorating. They want an update on our ETA.
PICARD: Stand by, Ensign.
LAFORGE: We've got to do something now, before they go into warp.
RO: The disruptor. I can put it on overload.
LAFORGE: Do it.
RO: Let's go!
PICARD: I would like to get under way as soon as possible. The situation on Garadius Four is becoming serious.
DATA: I see no reason to delay our departure. The chroniton fields have been cleared from all critical areas.
PICARD: Excellent. Mister McDowell, will you set course for Garadius Four and engage at
BROSSMER (voiceover): Commander Data, chroniton field strength in Ten Forward has just increased by three thousand percent.
DATA: Curious. Captain, I believe we should decontaminate this room before getting underway.
PICARD: Very well.
DATA: Chief.
BROSSMER (voiceover): Yes, Commander.
DATA: Increase anyon emissions to six thousand particles per second and decontaminate this area.
LAFORGE: Okay, hang on.
LAFORGE: Data, can you see us?
RO: Captain, we're right here.
LAFORGE: We're right here! We're right here!
PICARD: Did you see that, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Come on, Data. Put it all together now.
PICARD: These were not ghosts. what did we see?
DATA: I believe I may know what has happened, sir.
LAFORGE: Data, please be right.
DATA: It would explain the mysterious chroniton fields
RO: Yes, yes, yes.
DATA: If they were cloaked in some way.
PICARD: Are you saying that they're still alive?
DATA: If I am right, sir, they are, and in this room. Their brief appearance coincided with the anyon sweep. Perhaps the anyons neutralize the cloaking effect. Chief Brossmer.
BROSSMER (voiceover): Yes, Commander?
DATA: Set the anoynic beam to its highest level and flood Ten Forward.
BROSSMER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Data, do you see us?
DATA: Of course.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. Take the warp engines off line until further notice. There's a muon wave build up in the dilithium chamber.
ENSIGN (voiceover): Captain, who gave that order?
PICARD: That was Commander Geordi La Forge, Ensign. Please follow his instructions.
ENSIGN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: It looks like a great party. Do you mind if we join you?
DATA: Geordi, it is good to see you.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. I've never been to a better funeral.
LAFORGE: Could you pass the rolls?
RO: You've been eating for over an hour.
LAFORGE: Come on. We didn't eat for almost two days. I'm hungry. What's wrong?
RO: Nothing.
LAFORGE: Come on.
RO: I was raised with Bajoran beliefs. I even followed some of the practices, but I never really believed in a life after death. Then suddenly I was dead and there was another life, and it made me feel like I'd been pretty arrogant to discount everything I'd been taught, you know? Now I don't know what to believe.
LAFORGE: Maybe we should develop our own interphase device. If it can teach Ro Laren humility, it can do anything.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45944.1. Following a magnetic wave survey of the Parvenium Sector, we've detected an object which we cannot immediately identify.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Magnify. Mister Data?
DATA: It appears to be a probe of some kind, but there is no Starfleet record of this shape or design.
RIKER: Is it scanning us?
WORF: No sir, but it has assumed a relative position and it is holding course with us.
DATA: The probe is composed of paricium and talgonite, a ceramic alloy.
LAFORGE: Not a very sophisticated technology.
WORF: Sir, I am detecting a low-level nucleonic beam coming from the probe.
RIKER: Shields up. Stand by phasers.
DATA: The beam is scanning the shield's perimeter. The probe is emitting an unusual particle stream.
WORF: Sir, the beam is penetrating our shields.
PICARD: Increase power to
RIKER: Captain? Captain, I've got you. It's all

[Living room]
ELINE: Well. finally. How are you feeling? Kamin, can you answer me?
PICARD: What is this place?
ELINE: You're still feverish.
PICARD: Computer, freeze program. Computer, end program.
ELINE: Kamin.
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise.
ELINE: Kamin, please don't get up yet. You're still not well.
PICARD: I asked you, what is this place?
ELINE: This is your home, of course.
PICARD: Am I a prisoner here?
ELINE: Please, dear, you've had a high fever for three days. You mustn't push yourself too quickly. Kamin? You really shouldn't go outside.

[Courtyard]
ELINE: Kamin, please come back inside.

[Town square]
BATAI: Thank you. This sapling is planted as an affirmation of life in defiance of the drought and with expectations of long life. Whatever comes, we will keep it alive as a symbol of our survival. Kamin! You're back on your feet! How do you feel, my friend?
PICARD: Are you in charge here?
BATAI: In charge?
PICARD: I want to be returned to my ship immediately.
BATAI: What ship is that?
PICARD: Please, just tell me, what is this place? Where am I?
BATAI: The fever. It's taken your memory.
PICARD: That must be it. Perhaps you can help me.
BATAI: Anything, my friend.
PICARD: My name is Kamin?
BATAI: Yes.
PICARD: And you are?
BATAI: Batai. Council leader Batai.
PICARD: Ah. Batai. And you say I've been ill?
BATAI: For more than a week. Eline should've put you in the hospital, but she insisted on caring for you herself.
PICARD: Eline?
BATAI: Your wife. If you don't remember that, maybe it's safer not to go home.
PICARD: And what is this place?
BATAI: Perhaps you should see the doctor.
PICARD: No, please, I'm sure it will all come back to me.
BATAI: This is the community of Ressik. Northern province.
PICARD: What planet?
BATAI: Let me take you back home.
PICARD: No, really, I'm quite all right. Just answer me. What planet?
BATAI: This is the planet Kataan.
PICARD: Kataan. Not a Federation planet. I think I'll just take a walk.
BATAI: But you've been ill for a week.
PICARD: The exercise will do me good. I'll try to re-acquaint myself with the surroundings.

[Living room]
ELINE: Thank goodness. I've had people out trying to find you everywhere. Why did you worry us like that? Are you hungry?
PICARD: Hungry, thirsty, exhausted. I suppose that proves this is not a dream, doesn't it?
ELINE: You think this, your life, is a dream?
PICARD: This is not my life. I know that much.
ELINE: I've kept something hot for you. Where did you go?
PICARD: I walked. For hours.
ELINE: And you're just out of bed.
PICARD: It's delicious.
ELINE: You always say that.
PICARD: Would you try to answer some questions for me, no matter how strange they may seem to you?
ELINE: Of course.
PICARD: Are there other planets in this star system? Do you visit other systems? All right. Do you have a communication system here? How do you send messages to other communities, to other places?
ELINE: The usual way, by voice-transit conductor. Do you want to send a message?
PICARD: Yes. When can that be arranged?
ELINE: Tomorrow. Don't you want to ask about us?
PICARD: Of course. Anything you can tell me will be helpful. We're, er, um, married?
ELINE: Three years ago. The happiest day of my life was the day we got married.
PICARD: And what do I do here in Ressik?
ELINE: You're the best iron weaver in the community. At least I think so. You prefer playing the flute, of course.
PICARD: The flute?
ELINE: Yes.
PICARD: And when did I learn to play it?
ELINE: I'm afraid you never did, dear, but you keep trying.
PICARD: I see what you mean. Well, thank you for the soup. Thank you for your help. Tomorrow, will you help me send a message?
ELINE: Of course. Will you come to bed?
PICARD: Oh, I'll sleep here.
ELINE: Kamin, please come with me.
PICARD: I've been sick. I'll be tossing and turning. It wouldn't be fair to you.
ELINE: Let me be the judge of that.
PICARD: Where did you get this?
ELINE: Kamin, this is the first gift you ever gave me.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Riker to Sickbay. The Captain's hurt.
CRUSHER: Pulse and blood pressure are normal I'm getting hyperactive fibrogenic activity. This is odd.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: There's no evidence of any injury or trauma. Vital signs are normal, but neurotransmitter production is off the scale. What's going on?
RIKER: That probe is doing something to him. Anything yet, Data?
DATA: No, sir. The particle emission is most unusual. I am unable to block it.
WORF: We should destroy the probe. Phasers are armed and ready.
CRUSHER: I don't think that's wise. Not until we know exactly what it's doing to him.
RIKER: Agreed. Stand down phasers, Mister Worf. In the meantime, take us out of range. Ensign. Thrusters only, one hundred kph nice and easy
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Data?
DATA: The probe is moving with us, sir, holding relative position.
CRUSHER: It's connected itself to him, like a tether.

[Courtyard]
ELINE: You've been dreaming of that starship of yours again, haven't you?
PICARD: I'm just charting progress of the course of the sun. It might give a clue to the cause of this drought.
ELINE: I think you're still trying to figure out where you are. Where that ship of yours is. How to get back to that life.
PICARD: The memory is five years old now, but it's still inside me.
ELINE: Was your life there so much better than this? So much more gratifying, so much more fulfilling, that you cling to it with such stubbornness?
PICARD: Eline.
ELINE: It must have been extraordinary. But never in all of the stories you've told me have you mentioned anyone who loved you as I do.
PICARD: It was real. It was as real as this is. And you can't expect me to forget a lifetime spent there.
ELINE: Yes, I can. I've been patient, Kamin. For five years I've shared you with that other life. I've listened, I've tried to understand, and I have waited. When do I get you back?
PICARD: I know. I know. It has been hard on you.
ELINE: When will you let go? When will you start living this life? When will we start a family?
BATAI: Kamin, Eline, good morning.
PICARD: Good morning, Batai.
BATAI: Are you ready? The Administrator's already arrived.
PICARD: Yes. Will you come along?
ELINE: No, thank you. You do very well on your own.
BATAI: She always was strong-minded, even when she was a child.
PICARD: It's not her fault. These past few years have been very difficult for her.
BATAI: And for you, I think.

[Town square]
ADMINISTRATOR: There you are, Batai. Perhaps you can explain to me, when crops are dying all over, how this tree is flourishing?
BATAI: This tree is our symbol, our affirmation of life. Everyone in this town gives part of their water rations to keep it alive. We've learned, Administrator, that hope is a powerful weapon against anything. Even drought.
ADMINISTRATOR: A good point. Perhaps I shall recommend a symbolic tree in each of my communities. Now. What business do we have today?
BATAI: We need help if we're to increase the water supply. We think there are ways to reclaim some of our water.
ADMINISTRATOR: Batai, you're being a bit of an alarmist. True, we are in a drought, but water rationing has produced a sizeable savings.
PICARD: If the weather pattern doesn't change, rationing will not be enough. We'll run out of water.
ADMINISTRATOR: Who is this?
BATAI: Kamin, sir.
ADMINISTRATOR: Kamin. Do I know you?
PICARD: No. I haven't spoken to you before.
ADMINISTRATOR: Well, Kamin, I'm open to all the people of this town. I'm delighted to hear what you have to say.
PICARD: I suggest that we build atmospheric condensers which could extract water from the air.
ADMINISTRATOR: I don't mean to quash your very creative ideas but building atmospheric condensers would be a monumental undertaking. We could not hope to sustain such a project.
PICARD: Each community would be responsible for its own. Condensers could make the difference between watering our crops or watching them die.
ADMINISTRATOR: Well, I'll be glad to pass along your idea. You'll see that this kind of participatory government works for everyone. Be well, Batai. I shall see you next month. Good to meet you, Kanin.
BATAI: Go carefully, Administrator.
BATAI: That went very well. I think he was impressed with you.
PICARD: But there'll be no atmospheric condensers.
BATAI: These things take time, but it will happen. I'm sure of it.
PICARD: Come and have supper tonight, my friend. I'll make some vegetable stew. Let's talk about building our own condenser.
BATAI: Kamin. Hearing you talk to the Administrator, I realized that for the first time in years, you were speaking as though you were truly a member of the community. It was good to hear that again.

[Courtyard]
BATAI: You've been brooding behind that flute all evening.
PICARD: I'm not brooding. I'm immersed in my music.
BATAI: Music.
PICARD: I find that it helps me think, but the real surprise is I enjoy it so much.
BATAI: No, the real surprise is that you may actually be improving.
ELINE: Batai?
BATAI: Yes, ma'am.
ELINE: Go home.
BATAI: Yes, ma'am. Goodnight, Kamin.
PICARD: Goodnight, my friend.
ELINE: Go carefully, Batai.
ELINE: Don't forget these. I won't put them away for you again.
PICARD: Yes, ma'am.
ELINE: I've done nothing but nag all day. I'm sorry.
PICARD: No, I'm the one who's sorry. Everything you said this morning was absolutely correct. I feel that I have given you so little and you have given me so much.
ELINE: No. You're a good man. A wonderful husband. I didn't mean
PICARD: No, not such a wonderful husband. I spend my spare time charting the stars. I disappear for days at a time exploring the countryside. My life is very much as it was. Old habits.
ELINE: You're gentle and kind. You never once raised your voice to me.
PICARD: I'd like to ask your permission to build something.
ELINE: Kamin, you've built your telescope, your laboratory. You don't need my permission for something new.
PICARD: In this case, I think I do.
ELINE: What is it?
PICARD: A nursery.
ELINE: Really? Really?
PICARD: Unless, of course, if you would prefer a porch. It would certainly be easier to build. I could make a start on it right away.
ELINE: No.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Geordi, any progress identifying the probe?
LAFORGE: Maybe. I've picked up some residue on the probe's shell. I think it came from the propulsion system. Looks like it used a solid propellant as fuel.
RIKER: Solid propellant?
LAFORGE: Sensors read this stuff as crystalline emiristol. It produces a radioactive trail that ought to be traceable.
RIKER: Then we should be able to send out a probe of our own, trace it back to the origin.
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it.
DATA: Commander, I have been analyzing the nucleonic beam. I believe it would be possible to reflect the particles back toward the probe in a way that would disrupt the signal.
RIKER: Doctor?
CRUSHER: I simply don't know the risk of shutting down the beam.
RIKER: I'm not willing to let this thing keep drilling into him.
CRUSHER: If somebody gets stabbed, you don't necessarily pull the knife out right away. It might do more harm than leaving it there.
WORF: The Captain is under attack. We must act.
RIKER: I'm inclined to agree. Doctor, monitor him closely. Mister Data, prepare to disrupt the beam. We're going to try to cut this cord.

[Courtyard]
ELINE (voiceover): Meribor.

[Living room]
ELINE: Meribor, this is your brother's ceremony. Don't fidget now.
PICARD: We name this child for a dear friend who died a year ago. But now his memory will live on in his namesake.
ELINE: We name you Batai, in his honor.
PICARD: And he's starting out in the warmth of friends. Thank you. Please, help yourselves to something to eat.
MAN: Congratulations, Kamin.
PICARD: Thank you.
ELINE: It seems like only yesterday we had Meribor's naming ceremony. Go on.
PICARD: I remember. I was so nervous I was afraid that I would drop her. Now look at the little lady.
ELINE: She's no lady. Tromping through the hills with you all day, digging up those soil samples you insist upon collecting. No, she's her father's daughter.
PICARD: I would have believed I didn't need children to complete my life. Now I couldn't imagine life without them.
ELINE: Kamin, what is it?
ELINE: Get the doctor. Hurry!

[Bridge]
OGAWA: His respiratory system's in spasm. Pulse is irregular and weakening.
CRUSHER: I'm losing him!
OGAWA: I'm getting massive somatophysical failure.
CRUSHER: Two cc's delactovine.
RIKER: Data, get that beam back.
OGAWA: There are severe fluctuations in the isocortex. Synaptic responses are failing.
CRUSHER: Begin full cardiac induction.
OGAWA: Blood pressure is dropping rapidly. Seventy over twenty.
CRUSHER: Data, you've got to re-establish that beam.
DATA: I am attempting to do so, Doctor.
OGAWA: Losing response in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Cortical stimulators. Start at ten percent.
DATA: The beam is fully restored, Doctor.
OGAWA: Blood pressure up to ninety over forty and rising.
CRUSHER: Isocortical functions are stabilizing. Vital signs are approaching normal.

[Courtyard]
PICARD: Meribor?
MERIBOR: Happy day, father.
PICARD: Hey, that's my hobby. Find your own.
MERIBOR: You're the one who taught me. Don't complain if you've turned me into a scientist.
PICARD: And what has the scientist been up to today?
MERIBOR: Analyzing soil samples. There isn't any anaerobic bacteria. The soil is dead. This isn't just a very long drought, is it, Father? I have entries in my log that go back ten years. You have data preceding that for fifteen years. You've reached the same conclusion, I know you have.
PICARD: I haven't reached any conclusion. A good scientist doesn't function by conjecture.
MERIBOR: A good scientist functions by hypothesizing and then proving or disproving that hypothesis. That's what I did.
PICARD: Hey, why don't you spend more time with that young fellow Dannick?
MERIBOR: You are changing the subject.
PICARD: No, I'm not. I'm just hypothesizing that he's in love with you.
MERIBOR: You've taught me to pursue the truth, no matter how painful it is. It's too late to back off now. This planet is dying.
PICARD: Perhaps I should have filled your head with trivial concerns. Games and toys and clothes.
MERIBOR: I don't think you mean that.
PICARD: No, I don't. It just saddens me to see you burdened with the knowledge things you can't change.
MERIBOR: Father, I think I should marry Dannick sooner rather than later, don't you?
PICARD: Seize the time, Meribor. Live now. Make now always the most precious time. Now will never come again.
MERIBOR: I love you, Father.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: His vital signs are holding. They've been stable ever since the beam was restored.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, we've started to receive telemetry from the probe we launched.
RIKER: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: We've charted the alien probe's radiation trail for over one light year.
RIKER: Any way to extrapolate am origin?
LAFORGE: Looks like a star system in the Silarian sector. Kataan.
RIKER: Never heard of it. Data?
DATA: It is an unmapped system of six planets, sir.
RIKER: Any of them inhabited?
DATA: Not any longer, sir. The star went nova. All life in the system was destroyed approximately one thousand years ago.

[Courtyard]
ELINE: I put away your shoes for you again.
PICARD: Yes, thank you, dear.
ELINE: You know, I've been looking through this thing off and on for over thirty years, and I still don't see what you and Meribor find so fascinating.
PICARD: Fine. Then maybe you'll sit down and have a rest like you're supposed to.
ELINE: You treat me like some frail flower. People have surgery all the time.
ELINE: He loves playing. He's quite good at it, don't you think?
PICARD: He loves doing a lot of things too many. Last week, all he wanted to do was be a botanist. The week before that, a sculptor. I wish he could find some focus in his life.
ELINE: I think he has. Maybe you should talk to him.
PICARD: Batai?
BATAI JR: Father?
PICARD: I get the feeling from your mother that you have something to tell me.
BATAI JR: Yes. I was waiting for the right moment, but that will never come. I'm leaving school.
PICARD: Leaving school? No, you're not.
BATAI JR: I want to concentrate on my music. That's what I care about.
PICARD: Last year, all you cared about was mathematics. The year before that, botany. Now
BATAI JR: Through it all, there was my music. I think you know that, Father. This is the life I want.
PICARD: Well, we'll discuss it.
BATAI JR: Thank you, father.
ELINE: Even after all these years you still have the ability to surprise me.
PICARD: If music is what he wants, why should I stand in his way? Anyway, who knows how much time he'll have to follow any dream.
ELINE: Are you still planning to talk to the Administrator tomorrow?
PICARD: There's a possibility he'll dismiss me from the Council.
ELINE: Unless, of course, you keep quiet.
PICARD: No. The evidence is too pronounced. I can't stay silent.
ELINE: What a surprise.

[Town square]
ADMINISTRATOR: Kamin, what do you hope to accomplish? Spreading rumors that the planet is doomed. There could be chaos.
PICARD: The facts are here. At least show them to someone who will recognize what they mean.
ADMINISTRATOR: I won't be a party to your making trouble.
PICARD: If you won't take them, I most certainly will.
ADMINISTRATOR: Your observations, your findings, our scientists reached those same conclusions two years ago. Well, what did you expect us to do? Make it public? Can you imagine the effect?
PICARD: But surely the technology must exist to save something of this world? Perhaps some people could be evacuated.
ADMINISTRATOR: Evacuated where? Our technology is limited. We're just beginning to launch small missiles.
PICARD: A collection of genetic samples, then. Something, anything. You simply cannot let this civilization die.
ADMINISTRATOR: Enough! There is a plan in work. I cannot tell you more than that.
BATAI JR: Father!
PICARD: What is it?
BATAI JR: It's Mother. Hurry.

[Living room]
PICARD: Doctor?
DOCTOR: Kamin. I'm sorry.
ELINE: You see? I go to any lengths to get your attention.
PICARD: You always did have a flair for the dramatic.
ELINE: Doctor, thank you. Batai, leave us alone for a moment. I need to talk to my husband.
ELINE: Did you show the Administrator your evidence?
PICARD: I didn't have to. They already knew.
ELINE: So, he won't throw you off the Council?
PICARD: No.
ELINE: Good. Remember, put your shoes away.
PICARD: I promise.

[Living room]
PICARD: Gotcha! Now I gotcha.
MERIBOR: Some children are certainly making a lot of noise in here.
PICARD: You shouldn't be outside so long. It's damaging, you know that.
MERIBOR: I'm wearing plenty of your skin protector.
PICARD: How about you, young man? Do you wear your skin protector outdoors? You do? Good boy.
BATAI JR: Happy day, everybody. It's time to go see the launching.
PICARD: What launching? What's he talking about?
MERIBOR: They're sending up a missile, Father. We're going to watch it.
PICARD: I'm not going anywhere to watch anything.
BATAI JR: Come on, Kamie. Hurry up now. Let's go see the launching.
PICARD: It breaks my heart to look at him.
MERIBOR: Who?
PICARD: My grandson. It breaks my heart. He deserves a rich, full life, and he's not going to get one.
MERIBOR: Please come, Father.
PICARD: Why didn't I hear anything about a launching?

[Town square]
PICARD: Did everyone know about this except me? I'll be all right sitting here. You go off with the others. Hold onto my grandson, and watch the damned thing go up for all the good it'll do. What is it they're launching?
MERIBOR: You know about it, Father. You've already seen it.
PICARD: Seen it? What are you talking about? I haven't seen any missile.
BATAI: Yes, you have, old friend. Don't you remember?
PICARD: Batai?
BATAI: You saw it just before you came here. We hoped our probe would encounter someone in the future. Someone who could be a teacher. Someone who could tell the others about us.
PICARD: Oh, it's me, isn't it? I'm the someone. I'm the one it finds. That's what this launching is. A probe that finds me in the future.
ELINE: Yes, my love.
PICARD: Eline.
ELINE: The rest of us have been gone for a thousand years. If you remember what we were, and how we lived, then we'll have found life again.
PICARD: Eline.
ELINE: Now we live in you. Tell them of us, my darling.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Something's happening.
DATA: The nucleonic beam has ceased, Commander. The probe has shut down.
CRUSHER: His cerebral functions are stabilizing.
RIKER: Mister Worf, put a tractor beam on that probe. I want it in shuttlebay two for examination.
WORF: Yes, Commander.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Please, Captain, don't get up too quickly.
PICARD: Captain? This is the Enterprise. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. How long?
RIKER: Twenty, twenty five minutes.
PICARD: Twenty five minutes?
CRUSHER: Captain, I want you in Sickbay. I'd like to run a full diagnostic on you.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Hello, sir. Feeling better?
PICARD: Yes. Yes, thank you. But I find I'm having to rediscover that this is really my home.
RIKER: We were able to open the probe and examine it. Apparently, whatever had locked onto you must have been self terminating. It's not functioning any longer. We found this inside.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45959.1. The Enterprise has been recalled to sector zero zero one on a priority mission. All we've been told is that evidence has been discovered indicating the presence of extraterrestrials on Earth five centuries ago.

[Cavern]
SCIENTIST: Work crews were down here installing seismic regulators when they found some remarkable artifacts.
PICARD: And it's been determined that they date back to the late nineteenth century?
SCIENTIST: Yes.
DATA: The bifocal vision aid is typical of the era. The weapon is a forty five caliber double-action cavalry pistol invented by Colt Firearms in 1873.
SCIENTIST: Here, look inside the watch. .
PICARD: What makes you think that extraterrestrials are related to these discoveries.
SCIENTIST: The crew was having a problem with the regulators. Something inside the cavern was interfering with the phase conditioners. It turned out to be the cavern itself.
DATA: The composition of the exposed rock face has been altered by exposure to triolic waves.
SCIENTIST: Which you're not going to find on Earth in either the nineteenth or twenty fourth century.
PICARD: Triolic waves?
DATA: The by-product of an energy source employed by very few species because of its deleterious effect on living tissue.
SCIENTIST: We've confirmed that no one has been in or out of this cavern in centuries, so we're left with a five hundred year old mystery.
PICARD: I'm curious, Doctor. There are far greater experts on Earth to investigate your mystery. Why bring the Enterprise all the way home?
SCIENTIST: As we continued our excavation, we found one other thing I haven't shown you yet. We've tried to leave everything as we found it.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45960.2. We have transported the materials discovered in the cavern back to the ship for analysis. I wish I could be as dispassionate about the implications as my second officer.

[Engineering]
DATA: Interesting. There is a twelve percent decomposition of the bitanium in the neural pathway links. That suggests the alloys are vulnerable to
RIKER: Data, how can you look inside that, analyze the decomposition without
DATA: Emotion, sir?
RIKER: Yes..
DATA: I am simply trying to make an objective assessment.
PICARD: Data, is this yours?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Could it be Lore?
DATA: No, sir. My brother's positronic brain has a type L phase discriminating amplifier. Mine is a type R.
PICARD: Type R?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Can you predict how long this has been in the cavern?
DATA: Decomposition strongly indicates that life was terminated approximately five hundred years ago. That would be consistent with the other artifacts we recovered.
RIKER: Your head is not an artifact.
DATA: In relative terms, perhaps not. Nevertheless, it seems clear that my life is to end in the late nineteenth century.
RIKER: Not if we can help it.
DATA: There is no way anyone can prevent it, sir. At some future date, I will be transported back to nineteenth century Earth, where I will die. It has occurred. It will occur.
LAFORGE: Well, I can't tell you exactly who the aliens were, but I have found out a few things. The triolicised rock face tells us we're probably dealing with a species with microcentrum cell membranes. Triolic waves wouldn't harm them. It also might mean they're shape shifters of some kind.
RIKER: So they could have appeared on Earth as humans.
LAFORGE: I don't think it's anyone we've run into before. Nothing we found matches up with any known lifeforms. What does match up is a cellular fossil which might have been along just for the ride.
PICARD: A cellular fossil?
LAFORGE: A microscopic ciliated lifeform. Not unlike a thousand other single-celled lifeforms you'd find on any planet surface, except this particular one is LB one zero four four five. And LB one zero four four five is only known to exist on one place. Devidia Two, in the Marrab sector.
PICARD: Number One, lay in a course.
RIKER: On my way.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: So, do you want to talk about it?
DATA: Are you referring to the foreknowledge of my death?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DATA: I have no particular desire to discuss the matter. Do you need to talk about it?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DATA: Why?
LAFORGE: Data, this has got to bother you a little.
DATA: On the contrary. I find it rather comforting.
LAFORGE: Comforting?
DATA: I have often wondered about my own mortality as I have seen others around me age. Until now it has been theoretically possible that I would live an unlimited period of time. And although some might find this attractive, to me it only reinforces the fact that I am artificial.
LAFORGE: I never knew how tough this must be for you.
DATA: Tough? As in difficult?
LAFORGE: Knowing that you would outlive all your friends.
DATA: I expected to make new friends.
LAFORGE: True.
DATA: And then to outlive them as well.
LAFORGE: Now that you know that you might not?
DATA: It provides a sense of completion to my future. In a way, I am not that different from anyone else. I can now look forward to death.
LAFORGE: I never thought of it that way.
DATA: One might also conclude that it brings me one step closer to being human. I am mortal.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Bridge officers. We're approaching the Devidia system. Report to your stations.
LAFORGE: I'll see you later. Let's get together for a game of chess or something, okay?
GUINAN: That sounded like a very intense discussion.
LAFORGE: Yeah. They found Data's head a mile beneath San Francisco. Been down there about five centuries.
GUINAN: That's why the Enterprise has been sent back to Earth. I didn't realize.
LAFORGE: It's something, isn't it? He seems fine about it. Better than I am. Well, I'd better get to Engineering.
GUINAN: Full circle.

[Corridor]
TROI: I heard about Data.
RIKER: Yeah.
TROI: It's having an unusually traumatic effect on everyone.
RIKER: Yeah.
TROI: If you don't want to talk about it, it's okay.
RIKER: I'm fine. I'm just
TROI: Angry.
RIKER: I'm not angry. Yeah, I'm angry. Why should I be angry?
TROI: Maybe because it reminds us of our own mortality.
RIKER: I just don't want to believe it.
TROI: Have you ever heard Data define friendship?
RIKER: No.
TROI: How did he put it? As I experience certain sensory input patterns, my mental pathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually are anticipated and even missed when absent.
RIKER: So what's the point?
TROI: He's used to us, and we're used to him. It's like finding out someone you love has a terminal illness and
RIKER: Data.
DATA: Counselor. Commander.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Would either of you mind if I made a personal inquiry?
TROI: Personal inquiry? No, go right ahead.
DATA: I am perceiving an apparent change in the way others behave toward me. For example, people abruptly end conversations when I appear, just as you did when the turbolift doors opened. Is that an accurate observation?
RIKER: Not at all.
TROI: Yes.
RIKER: Yes.
TROI: You're right, Data. And it's not a very nice thing to do.
RIKER: It's just that our mental pathways have become accustomed to your sensory input patterns.
DATA: I understand. I am also fond of you, Commander. And you as well, Counselor.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're in orbit.
PICARD: Any sign of life?
WORF: Negative, sir.
DATA: Captain, sensors are picking up an unusual temporal disturbance on a small area of the planet's surface. Forty two degrees seven minutes north by eighty eight degrees declination east.
RIKER: Temporal disturbance?
PICARD: Put us in a standard orbit above those coordinates.
DATA: Spectral analysis shows a high level of triolic waves emanating from the same location.
RIKER: Any correlation with the readings from Earth?
DATA: Affirmative, sir. The magnetic signature is identical to the one found in the cavern.
PICARD: Would these triolic waves be dangerous to humanoids?
DATA: Only with long term exposure, sir. There is no immediate threat.
PICARD: Take an away team.
RIKER: Worf. Geordi. Troi. Join me in transporter room three for an away team.
DATA: Commander.
PICARD: Mister Data, I'll need your help to monitor the sensor readings during this investigation.
DATA: Captain, may I speak to you alone?

[Ready room]
DATA: Sir, it is standard procedure that the second officer accompany the away team.
PICARD: Yes, yes, Mister Data, I am aware of that.
DATA: Then I must assume your decision is related to the discovery on Earth of
PICARD: I think it is reasonable to take precautions.
DATA: Captain, there is no rational justification for this course.
PICARD: Then I'll be irrational.
DATA: It is possible, sir, that the events leading to my death will not occur for years, even centuries.
PICARD: I hope that's true, Mister Data. Nevertheless, this investigation began with your death. I am simply trying to see that it doesn't end that way.
DATA: I appreciate your concern, Captain, but, to employ an aphorism, one cannot cheat fate.
PICARD: Cheat fate? Perhaps we can't, Mister Data. But at least we can give it a try.

[Devidia cavern]
LAFORGE: The concentration of triolic waves falls off about here. It increases exponentially the closer in we go.
RIKER: What's the source? Something underground?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
RIKER: What's the explanation?
LAFORGE: I don't have one yet. La Forge to Enterprise.
DATA (voiceover): Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Data, run a spectral field correlation for me. Let's find out if these triolic readings are in any way related

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): To the temporal distortions.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Devidia cavern]
RIKER: Deanna?
TROI: There's life here. A child. An old woman. Dozens more. Hundreds. Terrified.
RIKER: Terrified?
TROI: My God, Will. They're human.

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): Whatever they are, Troi's convinced they're human. They may be trapped somehow. We're not sure.
DATA: Captain, the results of my temporal analysis may be pertinent.
PICARD: Go ahead.
DATA: Geordi, it indicates a synchronic distortion in the areas emanating

[Devidia cavern]
DATA (voiceover): Triolic waves.
LAFORGE: That explains a few things. How much, Data?
DATA (voiceover): A positive displacement of point zero zero four percent.
LAFORGE: Well, whatever or whoever is there, we're out of phase with it, but we're only talking by a fraction of a second.
WORF: A fraction of a second would make them invisible?
LAFORGE: A millisecond, a year, it wouldn't make any difference. If what we're reading is true, then we're occupying the same space but in a different time.
RIKER: How do we compensate?
DATA (voiceover): Commander, we might be able to

[Bridge]
DATA: Manipulate the synchronic distortion.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Maybe. If we were to create a contained subspace force field.

[Devidia cavern]
LAFORGE: But to get a point zero zero four variance, we'd need an incredibly sensitive phase discriminator, Data. I don't think we've got one that would come close.
DATA (voiceover): Yes, we do.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is built into my positronic decompiler. It will be necessary for me to join the away team, sir.
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Data.

[Devidia cavern]
RIKER: Mister Data.
DATA: Sir.
LAFORGE: Let me give you a hand with that, Data.
DATA: Once I have adjusted the forcefield, I will no longer be visible, Commander. I have taken steps, however, to ensure that you will still be able to hear me. If you would assist me in a test of the comm. system. My voice will be transmitted on a delay correlated to the phase adjustment. That should allow me to maintain verbal contact.
RIKER: Will we be able to talk to you?
DATA: No, sir. That will not be possible.
LAFORGE: The subspace field has been established. You're set to go, Data.
DATA: Adjusting the synchronic distortion. Point zero zero one. Point zero zero two. Point zero zero three. Point zero zero four.
DATA (voiceover): I have made visual contact. There are lifeforms here.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): They're either unaware of me or choosing to ignore me. I am moving approximately ten meters north of my starting position to observe more closely.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA (voiceover): They range from two to three meters in height. Silver gray in color. They have four limbs. No eyes or ears are noticeable. There is a single orifice where a humanoid forehead would ordinarily be. They are reclined against the rock face surrounding an apparatus of some sort approximately one point five meters in height.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): It is releasing what appear to be energy fragments, which are then ingested by the entities through the orifice. Perhaps some sort of nourishment.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA (voiceover): The upper portion of the apparatus seems to be a holding facility for the energy segments. There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of these fragments inside. I have resumed a northerly direction. There is no evidence yet of humans.
LAFORGE: Okay, that's enough Data. Come on back now,
DATA (voiceover): I have encountered

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Another lifeform. An ophidian. It seems to be restricted by a forcefield.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA (voiceover): Two of the silver-gray entities are approaching it. They have released the forcefield.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): I am reading a temporal distortion of massive proportions. The ophidian is cap time-space continuum.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA (voiceover): Caught in the after effect. I am attempting
TROI: Data!
RIKER: Over here.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander Riker, report.
RIKER: We've lost him.

[Street]
DATA: Excuse me. Pardon me. I am searching for two individuals with an ophidian. A snake.
MAN: Frenchman.
BEGGAR: Could you help out a Forty Niner? I fell down a shaft. I got blown up in a tunnel.
DATA: That is unfortunate.
BEGGAR: It is most unfortunate. I require large amounts of whiskey as a linament.
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no whiskey to give you.
BEGGAR: I'll take a dime.
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no form of legal tender.
BEGGAR: Well, we're in the same boat, huh? Well, this is my street. You'll have to go find one of your own.
DATA: I would be happy to do so, but I am presently in need of information.
BEGGAR: Stockbrokers are cheap as hell. Don't even bother to ask. Your best handout is from a young fella with his lady. You give him a chance to show her he's generous. Steer clear of sailors. Most likely you'll get a fist across the jaw for your trouble.
DATA: Thank you for your advice, but I'm trying to find two individuals with a snake.
BEGGAR: A snake? You're an odd fellow, aren't you? But just don't be too particular where you get your funds from.
DATA: You are in need of medical attention. I will get a doctor.
BEGGAR: No, no, no, it's too late for that. Could you help out a Forty Niner?
BELLBOY: Thanks.
BELLBOY: Hey, put it on Gentleman Jim. Knockout in the fifth.
MAN: All right.
DATA: Sir, I need temporary lodging.
BELLBOY: Looks like the missus booted you out in the middle of the night.
DATA: I understand the source of your misperception. However, this is not sleepware and I do not have a missus.
BELLBOY: Well.
DATA: I am a Frenchman.
BELLBOY: Oh. Well, everybody's from somewhere. That doesn't matter at this hotel. It's six bits a day or four dollars a week.
DATA: I have no money.
BELLBOY: Well, now, that matters.
DATA: But I am capable of performing significant tasks both mental and physical. Perhaps your hotel would offer me a job.
BELLBOY: Geez, I don't know. We're pretty happy with the maid we've got. Cook's decent. Dishwasher's drunk all day, but at least he gets here on time. And there's me. I do everything else. Sorry. Lady Luck not with ya, tonight, Mister Lane? Poor fella. Hasn't filled a straight in five weeks.
DATA: Poker?

[Poker room]
GAMBLER: Fold.
MAN: Me too.
SEAMAN: Go to blazes.
GAMBLER: A poker face carved in marble.
DATA: Excuse me, gentlemen.
SEAMAN: What in hell do you want?
DATA: I would like to join the game.
NATIVE: Pale face.
SEAMAN: I don't like Easterners, personally.
DATA: I am a Frenchman.
GAMBLER: Ah. Mes parents sont originaires de Bourgonais. Je suis ne a la New Orleans.
DATA: Alors, nous sommes presque frères. Je suis heureux de vous connaitre.
GAMBLER: Please, sir.
GAMBLER: The game is poker. The deal is yours. The ante is four bits.
GAMBLER: Family heirloom?
DATA: In a manner of speaking. It is a crystalline composite of silicon, beryllium, Carbon seventy, and
SEAMAN: Gold.
DATA: Gold.
GAMBLER: I'll give you three bucks for it.
DATA: I accept.

[Data's hotel room]
BELLBOY: Did you see the looks on their faces? I did everything I could not to laugh.
DATA: To whom are you referring?
BELLBOY: Frederick La Rouque and Joe Falling Hawk. Those guys are card sharks. Oh sure, they play easy at first not to scare off the marks, but you give them a little time, they'll bleed a man dry. Especially an out-of-towner like yourself..
DATA: What was the source of your jocular reaction? What was it you found humorous?
BELLBOY: Don't you see? They had you pegged for a sap. The clothes you got on, the way you talk, it's like you were born yesterday. You sure fooled them, though.
DATA: It was not my intention to deceive.
BELLBOY: Have it your way. This is the place. Breakfast is six to eight. Checkout's at noon when you're ready to leave.
DATA: Thank you. It has been a pleasure.
DATA: It would be advisable to monitor that cough. I have read that there is currently a cholera epidemic in San Francisco.
BELLBOY: Never felt better.
DATA: Of course. The gratuity. Thank you for your assistance.
BELLBOY: A dollar? If there's anything you need. It can get lonely in San Francisco. You might want some company. I can introduce you to Lillian.
DATA: I have no need for companionship. However I do require some supplies.
BELLBOY: Anything you need. I can get it for you wholesale. I can get it for you less than wholesale if you don't ask me where it came from.
BELLBOY: What do you need all this stuff for?
DATA: I am an inventor.
BELLBOY: No kidding. Well, this stuff's going to take a while. I'll have to go clear cross town. And it's not going to be cheap.
DATA: Will this be enough?
BELLBOY: More than enough.
DATA: You may retain the surplus for yourself.
BELLBOY: Keep the change?
DATA: Exactly.
BELLBOY: Done.

[Alley]
BEGGAR: Help out a Forty Niner. Fell down a shaft. Forty Niner. Help me. Help me out.
BEGGAR: No. No.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Close range sensor analysis has yielded no further trace of Commander Data. Despite the emotional repercussions among my crew, I must move this mission forward.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I'm not willing to accept that he's dead and just leave it at that.
PICARD: We cannot make Mister Data our priority.
RIKER: What is more important than Data?
TROI: Look at what we have so far. Evidence that these aliens have been traveling back in time to Earth.
CRUSHER: What if they're trying to undermine our history for some reason.
WORF: Some kind of guerilla war?
PICARD: We must assume that there is a threat, if not to us then to 19th century Earth. We have to determine what that threat may be. Mister La Forge, we have to find some way to communicate with these life forms.
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy to reproduce what Data did. We can create a contained subspace field, but we'd need an extraordinarily sensitive phase discriminator to get that point zero zero four variance.
PICARD: Can you build one?
LAFORGE: It won't be as good as Data's.
RIKER: Will it be good enough?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I can try. It's going to take some time though.
PICARD: I don't want anyone else going in alone.
LAFORGE: I can probably create a large enough subspace field to encompass everyone. But adjusting the phase inside the field, that's going to be the hard part.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: We have to assume one thing, sir. Wherever Data may be, he's doing the same thing we are, which is trying to get to the bottom of this. He may have a better idea about what's going on than we do, so it might be in the best interests of this mission to find him.
PICARD: Perhaps in the course of this investigation, we will. I hope so.
WORF: If we find Commander Data, it may be our fate to die with him in the past. If our remains are in that cavern, they would have turned to dust long ago.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: I'm afraid to interrupt.
GUINAN: Captain, you didn't have to come all the way down here. I would've been more than happy to come up to you.
PICARD: And miss all this? I haven't seen such a complex operation since the Academy lab final in exochemistry.
GUINAN: It's a Tzartak aperitif. It's very, very touchy. The trick is to change the evaporation point of the main ingredient. You want the temperature where the liquid goes to vapor to be a half a degree below the body temperature of the customer. That way, when the liquid touches the tongue, it evaporates, and the flavor is carried entirely by the vapor. A few molecules off, the vapor point crashes, and poof! It's all gone. All of it.
PICARD: What is it you wanted to see me about?
GUINAN: I hear you're sending an away team down to the surface. Are you going?
PICARD: Well, now, this is rather unusual for you to be curious about an away mission.
GUINAN: Maybe it's an unusual away mission.
PICARD: If you have something to say, I'm listening.
GUINAN: Starfleet captains don't usually accompany away teams.
PICARD: It's general policy.
GUINAN: This time, you have to.
PICARD: Why?
GUINAN: You just do. Do you remember the first time we met?
PICARD: Of course.
GUINAN: Don't be so sure. I just mean, if you don't go on this mission, we'll never meet.

[Data's hotel room]
BELLBOY: Sorry it took so long, Mister Data.
DATA: Apology is not necessary.
DATA: Ow.
BELLBOY: Are you all right?
DATA: I believe I have overexerted myself.
BELLBOY: Yeah, I'll say. Did you get it working?
DATA: Yes.
BELLBOY: Whatever it is.
DATA: This is for your trouble.
BELLBOY: What are you going to do with the anvil?
DATA: I require a low intensity magnetic field core. I believe the iron mass of the anvil will provide that.
BELLBOY: What's it going to be when it's finished?
DATA: What do you think it is going to be?
BELLBOY: If I were to guess, maybe a new kind of motor for one of those horseless carriages.
DATA: That is a good guess.
BELLBOY: Hot damn. You really think there's money in those things?
DATA: Perhaps.
BELLBOY: Isn't that what makes America great?
DATA: To what are you referring?
BELLBOY: Well, a man rides into town in his pajamas, wins a grub stake at a poker table, turns it into a horseless carriage and makes a million bucks. That's America.
DATA: I believe I have given you an erroneous impression.
BELLBOY: You know, some day my ship's going to come in.
DATA: You have a ship?
BELLBOY: Oh yeah, and it's full of gold too. I'm just biding my time til it gets here, raising a stake any way I can. I've been a newsie, cut fish at a cannery. Heck, I've even been an oyster pirate.
DATA: You have had a considerable spectrum of occupations.
BELLBOY: Yeah, well, you can't stay in one place too long. I'm always looking for the angle, you know. Say, maybe you and I could go into business together, selling your horseless carriage and all. You invent them, I sell them. I can sell anybody anything. What do you say?
DATA: I believe your plan is a bit premature.
BELLBOY: Keep it in mind, though. I better get back. Oh, I forgot. I got you something at the bakery on Third.
DATA: Thank you, Jack.
BELLBOY: Oh, no, no, no. It's on me, partner.

[Ballroom]
CLEMENS: The eminent scientist Alfred Russell Wallace has revived the theory that Earth is at the center of the stellar universe. This distinguished natural philosopher has reaffirmed our planet as the only habitable globe in the heavens. A world, furthermore, constructed for the sole benefit of man. He's got a lot of folks excited about the notion.
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, why do I think you're not one of them?
CLEMENS: Your suspicions, Madam Guinan, are undoubtedly based upon your keen observational skills. Now, if you'll permit me, I'll continue my character assassination unimpeded.
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, please do. Please do.
CLEMENS: According to our best geologic estimate, the Earth is approximately one hundred million years of age. Perhaps it is less, perhaps more.
GUINAN: Perhaps a great deal more.
CLEMENS: Indeed. But regardless, it is ancient in the extreme. Now, geology also tells us that man himself has existed for but a microscopic fraction of those years. Curious, isn't it, that the world got by for such a great long while with no humans around to fill up space? I suppose Mister Wallace and his supporters would say that the Earth needed all that time to prepare itself for our illustrious arrival. Why, the oyster alone probably required fifteen million years to get it to come out just right.
GUINAN: But if the Earth is not alone, and there are millions of inhabited planets in the heavens.
CLEMENS: Quite my point. Man becomes a trivial creation, does he not? Lost in the vastness of the cosmic prairie, adrift on the deep ocean of time. A single one among countless others.
GUINAN: Someone may argue that a diamond is still a diamond, even if it is one amongst millions. It still shines as brightly.
CLEMENS: Someone might say that, dear lady, if someone thought that the human race was akin to a precious jewel. But this increasingly hypothetical someone would not be me.

[Entrance hall]
DOORMAN: Good afternoon, sir.
DATA: Good afternoon. I would like to speak to Guinan.
DOORMAN: And you are?
DATA: Data.
DOORMAN: Mister Data. Could it be under another name?
DATA: No.
DOORMAN: I can't seem to find your name on the guest list, sir.
DATA: I am a personal friend.
DOORMAN: Madam Guinan has discovered many personal friends since the newspaper announcement, but if your name is not on the guest list, there's nothing I can do.
DATA: It is urgent that I speak to her.
DOORMAN: Sir, unless you leave this house immediately, I will send for the police.
DATA: That is an excellent idea. I will wait for them in there.
DOORMAN: Sir, please, you can't go in there.

[Ballroom]
DATA: Guinan! Excuse me. I must speak to you immediately.
DOORMAN: Forgive me, madam. He just barged right in.
DATA: I am sorry for the disruption, but he would not believe me when I told him we were friends.
GUINAN: Do I know you, Mister?
DATA: Data. Yes. We were on a ship together.
GUINAN: I do so much traveling. What ship would that be?
DATA: The Enterprise.
GUINAN: Is that a clipper ship?
DATA: It is a starship.
CLEMENS: A starship? What registry would that be?
GUINAN: Of course! Mister Data. Excuse us. We have so much to catch up on. Excuse us. How are you?

[Garden]
GUINAN: What exactly are you?
DATA: Android. Artificial life form.
GUINAN: Ah. Did my father send you here? Because if he did, you must go back and tell him I've not done listening
DATA: I was not sent by your father. Circumstances demand that I take you into my confidence. I require your assistance.
GUINAN: Sorry.
DATA: I am from the twenty fourth century, where you and I serve aboard a starship.
GUINAN: And?
DATA: Our ship encountered a species who appears to be threatening 19th century Earth. I investigated, and was inadvertently pulled into their temporal vortex. When I saw your photograph in the newspaper, I assumed you had joined me from the future, from the Enterprise. I knew your species was long-lived, but I did not realize you had visited Earth so long ago.
CLEMENS: Eavesdropping is by no means a proper activity for a gentleman. Nonetheless, the deed is done.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 45965.3. An away team has beamed to the surface with a device which may enable them to phase-shift into the alien world.

[Devidia cavern]
LAFORGE: Okay, Counselor, right over there.
CRUSHER: The triolic waves end right here.
RIKER: Mister Worf?
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: How soon will you be ready?
LAFORGE: We're ready now, Captain. The subspace field is established.
RIKER: I'd be more comfortable if you'd monitor our progress from the Bridge, Captain.
PICARD: I have reason to believe that my presence on this mission is imperative.
RIKER: Imperative?
PICARD: Yes. Mister Worf, you will report back to the Bridge.
WORF: Sir, as Chief of Security, my place is at your side.
PICARD: The security of the Enterprise is of paramount importance, Mister Worf.
WORF: Yes, sir. Worf to Enterprise.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Go ahead.
WORF: Beam me up.
PICARD: Proceed, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I've modified this tricorder to interface with the subspace generator. It should allow me to control the phase discrimination, assuming this is going to work at all. I need everyone within the field. Adjusting synchronic distortion. Point zero zero one. Point zero zero two. Point zero zero three. Point zero zero four.
PICARD: If we can see them, why they can't see us?
LAFORGE: The phase displacement might not bring us far enough into their perceptual range.
CRUSHER: These strands appear to be biomagnetic. Variable flux. Possibly organic in origin.
PICARD: A life form.
TROI: No. There is no life here. What I have sensed is more like an imprint. An echo of the last moment of life. Human life. They all died in terror
RIKER: My God. They're delivering more of them for the others to ingest.
TROI: Look at what he's carrying. To Be Continued...
LAFORGE: They found Data's head a mile beneath San Francisco. Been down there about five centuries.
DATA: At some future date I will be transported back to nineteenth century Earth, where I will die. It has occurred. It will occur.
GUINAN: Do I know you, Mister?
DATA: Data. Yes. We were on a ship together. The Enterprise.
GUINAN: Is that a clipper ship?
DATA: It is a starship.
CLEMENS: Starship?
RIKER: My God. They're delivering more of them for the others to ingest.
GUINAN: Did my father send you here? Because if he did, you must go back and tell him I'm not done listening to
DATA: I was not sent by your father. Our ship encountered a species who appears to be threatening nineteenth century Earth.
RIKER: I'm not willing to accept that he's dead and just leave it at that.
PICARD: We cannot make Mister Data our priority.
RIKER: What is more important than Data?
GUINAN: Do you remember the first time we met?
PICARD: Of course.
GUINAN: Don't be so sure. If you don't go on this mission, we'll never meet. And now, the conclusion.

[Street]
CLEMENS: I have long been interested in the notion of time travelers. In fact, I wrote a book about it. It chronicles the tale of a man of our era who fouled the sixth century by introducing newfangled gadgets and weapons all in the name of progress. This idea of time travel is not so far fetched as it might seem. In fact, I have learned that, even now, there are people from the future right here in San Francisco and I have no doubt that their intent is to foul our world just as my Yankee did in King Arthur's time. Well, sir, let me serve notice. As soon as I have the necessary evidence, I intend to expose them and make it absolutely clear that they are not welcome here.
REPORTER: Yes, sir. And will this be a sequel to Connecticut Yankee, Mister Twain?
CLEMENS: The name's Clemens, son. Sam Clemens. That's with an e.
REPORTER: With an e. Got it.
CLEMENS: Excuse me.

[Morgue]
RIKER: The coroner said this is where they kept all the cholera victims.
CRUSHER: It doesn't make sense that so many people are dying of cholera. It just isn't that virulent. Will, this is strange.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: The cerebellum, the cerebral cortex, the brain stem, the entire nervous system has been depleted of electrochemical energy. Here's another one. Same neural depletion. These people did not die of cholera. They died because their neural energy was drained somehow.
RIKER: Drained and taken to Devidia Two for those aliens to ingest? If you were a time traveler with a taste for human neural energy where would you get your supply?
CRUSHER: I would travel back to a time when there were plagues and epidemics, so I could murder and use disease as a cover.

[Rented room]
CRUSHER: Over half the victims whose neural energy had been drained came from the Sisters of Hope Infirmary.
RIKER: A charity hospital near the waterfront.
TROI: If the aliens have been killing people there, well, someone might have noticed something unusual.
PICARD: And if they're moving among humans, they must have taken on human form. But the question is, how do we know who we're looking for?
RIKER: The tricorder indicated triolic activity from most of the bodies we looked at. If the aliens left that sort of signature, they'll be detectable.
LAFORGE: You know, we might even be able to rig some kind of alien alarm system.
RIKER: Any luck contacting Data?
LAFORGE: None. The tricorder's broadcasting random emissions on all frequencies his sub-processors might pick up, but the range is limited. Almost anything could interfere.
LAFORGE: She's back.
CARMICHAEL (voiceover): Mister Pikerd!
PICARD: Yes, Mrs. Carmichael.
CARMICHAEL: Mister Pikerd. I'll be reminding you that it's one o'clock.
PICARD: Yes.
CARMICHAEL: One o'clock on a Thursday. I'm sure I made it clear to you that the rent is always due, payable in full, by one o'clock on Wednesdays.
PICARD: Ah, yes, er, the rent. Mrs. Carmichael, even now my troupe are in rehearsals for a new production.
CARMICHAEL: Oh? I haven't heard of any new production. What play is it?
PICARD: The play? A Midsummer Night's Dream. We have performed in London, Paris, Milan. Milan. To sold out houses. I assure you, you will have the rent, in full, with a bonus.
CARMICHAEL: Oh, no, no, no, no. I've heard you silver-tongued devils before. I'll have the rent in full tomorrow by one o'clock or you'll be out performing on the street.

[Data's hotel room]
BELLBOY: I wouldn't do this for just anybody, Mister Clemens. And I hope you won't spread it around that I let you in. People start talking.
CLEMENS: Of course not, Jack. And I assure you that Mister Data would be most upset if you didn't. If I can't find that Letter of Intent that he left me, our major investor is going to pull out and take his business elsewhere.
BELLBOY: It has to do with Mister Data's engine, doesn't it?
CLEMENS: Engine?
BELLBOY: Yes.
CLEMENS: Oh, yes. Yes, this is exactly what it's all about. Ow!
BELLBOY: You know, Mister Clemens, I'm going to do you another favor today. You're always looking for good stories, right? Well, I've got a real humdinger for you. The story of my life. Now, I know you may think I'm young, but I've covered a lot of ground and if I do say so myself, it'd make for some pretty fascinating reading. So, what do you think?
CLEMENS: About what?
BELLBOY: About writing my life story. You and me. Literary partners, of course.
CLEMENS: Young man, I have a maxim that I have always lived by. No one is more qualified to write your story than you are.
BELLBOY: Me? Be a writer? You think I could do that?
CLEMENS: As long as you write what you know. You got any passions, boy? Any dreams?
BELLBOY: I'd like to do some traveling, maybe go to sea. And Alaska. I've had the strangest notion to go see Alaska.
CLEMENS: That's a great idea, son. That's exactly what I would do if I were your age. Alaska, the Klondike, the Aurora Borealis. That's it. Follow your dreams and write about 'em.
BELLBOY: Thank you, Mister Clemens. You know, that is exactly what I'm going to do.
CLEMENS: You do that, son.
BELLBOY: You'll see my name in print, too.
CLEMENS: I'm sure I will.
BELLBOY: Don't forget. The name's London. Jack London.
CLEMENS: Goodbye now. Bye-bye.
GUINAN: I found the Head Surveyor, I found the cavern. You will not be able to get to it. The entrance is on a mine shaft that is the middle of the Presidio on an army base.
DATA: Perhaps you could arrange for us to get in.
GUINAN: How?
DATA: With permission to dig for the mine shaft.
GUINAN: Oh, no, Data. I've done everything you've asked
DATA: I have full confidence in your persuasive abilities.
GUINAN: Well, I suppose it's more interesting than throwing a tea dance.
DATA: Strange. The transceiver assembly has been removed. Without it I will be unable to track the time shifts.
GUINAN: Twain.
DATA: Clemens?
GUINAN: Yes. He's been driving me crazy. He watches the house, he follows me down the street asking me questions. If anyone took this you can believe it was him.
DATA: If you are correct, he must be warned. The device has been modified in such a way that prolonged contact with human tissue would be highly toxic.
CLEMENS: Madame Guinan. Mister Data.
GUINAN: Shame on you, Mister Clemens. Shame.
CLEMENS: Shame, madam? I think not. I find no shame in my efforts to uncover your plot.
GUINAN: I keep telling you, there is no plot.
CLEMENS: Yes, you do keep telling me that. What an interesting pair you are. Where in Switzerland did you say you were from, Mister Data?
DATA: I am French, sir, not Swiss.
CLEMENS: Oh yes, that's right, now I remember. A Frenchman with a talent for poker, from what I hear. You know, I was talking to a friend of mine, Ches Whitley. He says to say hello and wonders when you're coming back.
DATA: I do not believe I know Mister Whitley.
CLEMENS: No? He works at the County Assayer's office. He says you've been in there a number of times claiming to be a geological engineer and wanting information about mining operations during the 1850's. You remember him now?
DATA: I am unfamiliar with the gentleman's name. I have spoken to several people at that office.
CLEMENS: Yes, I know. And in the Hall of Records, and in the Geological Society, and a little-known mineral shop in Chinatown. You do get around, don't you?
DATA: As apparently you do, Mister Clemens.
CLEMENS: I must admit you've got me mystified. This contraption, for instance. It's very unusual. It looks quite futuristic. Tell me, might it have something to do with time shifts?
DATA: In a sense. The time shift is a gearing system I have invented for the horseless carriage.
CLEMENS: Do not insult me. You have come here to this century and brought your infernal technology with you for God only knows what purpose, but I have no doubt it will be the people of this century who will suffer for it.
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, I do think we've heard enough. Mister Data's business is his own, and I will thank you to leave now.
CLEMENS: Pardon me, Madam Guinan, but it is my business too. It is the business of all humanity, I believe, to stop both of you from whatever it is you are doing here. And that is what I intend to do.

[Sisters of Hope Infirmary]
DOCTOR: Just what are you doing with those lamps?
PICARD: Replacing the burners. City ordinance. Makes it safer in case of earthquake.
DOCTOR: There hasn't been an earthquake here in thirty years.
PICARD: Well, that's takes care of this ward. Time to be moving on.
DOCTOR: Earthquakes. Nurse. If you can handle things here, I've got a meeting with the Board of Patrons.
CRUSHER: I'll try to manage.
LAFORGE: There, by that bed. I can see an afterimage of triolic waves. They've been here recently. I'd say within the last twenty four hours.
CRUSHER: That's the bed where the man died last night.
TROI: This man was complaining about a strange doctor and nurse who visited that patient. Perhaps they're still in the hospital.
CRUSHER: Here. This'll make you more comfortable.
CRUSHER: Do you need any help, Doctor? Doctor Apollinaire felt he had entered the algid stage. He was cyanotic, pulse unobservable. That's an interesting cane.
LAFORGE: Doctor!
POLICEMAN: Stand aside, stand aside. Let me in here. People said there was gunfire in here. What's going on?
RIKER: Just a little misunderstanding. I was just clearing these people out of here.
POLICEMAN: I haven't seen you before.
RIKER: I was just assigned here this morning. I was working downtown.
POLICEMAN: I worked downtown for three years. I don't remember you.
PICARD: We'll be on our way.
POLICEMAN: No, wait. Wait. I'm going to ask all of you to come down to the station for questioning. Including you. Where'd you get that? That's a gentleman's cane. Never seen a cane like this before. I'll have to confiscate it for evidence.
RIKER: I just want you to know that I have the utmost respect for the law.
PICARD: Let's go.

[Infirmary street]
RIKER: Data!
LAFORGE: Boy, are we glad to see you.
DATA: I suggest we postpone our greetings for another occasion.
PICARD: Agreed. Get us out of here.

[Rented room]
LAFORGE: If we tune a phaser to the approximate frequency of triolic waves and lay down a field burst, it might respond.
TROI: The ophidian the aliens were carrying.
RIKER: What the?
LAFORGE: These look like minute distortions in the space-time continuum, like the one we saw on Devidia Two.
RIKER: They were so small, and they lasted only a second.
DATA: The aliens appear to be able to concentrate the distortion and direct it to a specific time and place.
CRUSHER: Maybe they have something, a mechanism that focuses it.
LAFORGE: Any device like that would produce significant levels of triolic waves. Like the ones in the cavern where Data's head was found.
DATA: I have located that cavern.
CARMICHAEL (voiceover): Mister Pikerd! I know you're in there. Open the door!
TROI: Mrs. Carmichael.
DATA: How now, spirit. Whither wander you?
CRUSHER: Over hill, over dale, thorough bush, thorough brier,
TROI: Mrs. Carmichael, thank goodness you're here.
PICARD: We need someone to read a part. You're just in time.
CARMICHAEL: Mister Picard, I need to be talking to you.
CRUSHER: My mistress would that he be gone.
RIKER: Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
PICARD: Now, Mrs. Carmichael Right there.
RIKER: Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
CARMICHAEL: What, jealous Oberon. Fairies skip hence. I have foresworn his bed and company.
PICARD: Well, I don't think I need to hear any more. That was truly unique.
CARMICHAEL: Really?
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have found our Titania. Don't you agree?
CARMICHAEL: Well, I did do a church play when I was a lass.
PICARD: Well, there you are. We start rehearsals tomorrow.

[Data's hotel room]
GUINAN: You're back. I have wonderful news. I've found a way to get into the Presidio and into the mine shaft.
DATA: It is all right.
GUINAN: Do you know me?
PICARD: Very well.
GUINAN: Do I know you?
PICARD: Not yet. But you will.

[Infirmary street]
REPORTER: Thanks for your help, officer.
POLICEMAN: Now, be sure you put in the part about me spotting that phony policeman.
REPORTER: Yes, sir.
CLEMENS: Hello, son.
REPORTER: Mister Clemens. What brings you here?
CLEMENS: Writer's curiosity. I heard that two people vanished into thin air in this Infirmary.
REPORTER: One of the patients said that, yes, sir, but the police deny it.
CLEMENS: I bet they do.
REPORTER: They say a band of outlaws set off an explosion in the hospital and then escaped.
CLEMENS: Well, what did these outlaws look like?
REPORTER: The carriage they escaped in was driven by an albino.
CLEMENS: Oh. Mister Data.
REPORTER: You know him?
CLEMENS: You bet I do. You say there were others with him?
REPORTER: Yes, at least a dozen.
CLEMENS: His accomplices. They've come from the future. My God, it's an invasion.
REPORTER: An invasion from the future? Mister Clemens, what can you tell me about this? Do you have any proof?
CLEMENS: When's your deadline, boy?
REPORTER: Five o'clock, sir.
CLEMENS: I'll meet you at your paper at four thirty with a story that will make your career.
REPORTER: Thanks, Mister Clemens
CLEMENS: Take me to the Presidio, driver, and don't spare the whip.

[Cavern]
RIKER: The triolic levels are as high as they were on Devidia Two. There's no indication of a control mechanism.
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. My visor is picking up crystalline fractures. These cavern walls have undergone some kind of selective molecular polarization. In fact, if I'm right this whole cavern has been configured to focus the space-time distortion. Just like a lens. Captain, we think we might be on to something. The cavern itself seems to be acting as a focusing mechanism. I'm willing to bet it's the same at their habitat back on Devidia Two.
PICARD: If we can get back there and destroy that site, it might put an end to their time traveling.
RIKER: We have the ophidian.
LAFORGE: Truthfully, I don't know that we can get back. The aliens use triolic energy as a power source. The energy our phasers generates might not be entirely compatible.
PICARD: We have no choice but to try.
CLEMENS: An event I would most certainly enjoy witnessing. However, I will regretfully waive that opportunity for the privilege of taking you all in to the authorities.
DATA: Mister Clemens, it is imperative that we continue our mission.
CLEMENS: Mister Data, I have listened to your stories and your excuses and your evasions, and I will listen no longer. It is my moral duty to protect mankind from whatever devious plan you have in mind. Now, move along. I suspect that even time travelers are vulnerable to the Colt forty five. Now, let's go. I made a young fellow a promise and I don't want to be late.
PICARD: Follow him!

[Devidia cavern]
RIKER: Is everybody all right?
CRUSHER: I think so.
RIKER: You!
CLEMENS: Where are we? And when?
RIKER: This is the twenty fourth century, we're on Devidia Two, and you're not supposed to be here.
CLEMENS: Well it seems to me I have as much right to be in your time as you had to be in mine. I wanted to see how you've conducted my future affairs.
TROI: Your future affairs?
CLEMENS: The affairs of mankind.
RIKER: But the disappearance of Mark Twain, one of the most noted literary figures of the nineteenth century
CLEMENS: Thank you.
RIKER: That's not supposed to happen.
CLEMENS: I only took advantage of an irresistible opportunity, as any good writer would.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Away team. Acknowledge.
RIKER: We're here, Mister Worf. Stand by to transport five.
LAFORGE: Commander.
RIKER: Mister Worf?
WORF (voiceover): Yes, Commander.
RIKER: Make that six to transport.

[Transporter room]
CLEMENS: Where are we now?
RIKER: The Federation Starship Enterprise. Ensign, call security. I want an escort for this man.
CLEMENS: Security? What for? Are you afraid I'm going to go around stealing things?
CLEMENS: A werewolf!
RIKER: It's a long story, Mister Worf. I'll brief you later.
LAFORGE: Let's have Data's body taken to the science lab. I'll try and re-attach the head we have.
CRUSHER: Geordi, that head is over five hundred years old.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but it's the best chance we've got.
RIKER: I want Mister Clemens kept under escort at all times.
TROI: Commander, perhaps I could handle that. I'd be happy to take Mister Clemens to his quarters.
RIKER: Good idea. If you would accompany the Counselor.
CLEMENS: Madam, I'd be delighted. So, this is a space ship? You ever run into Halley's comet?

[Cavern]
PICARD: Gently. Don't sit up too quickly.
GUINAN: Where'd everybody go?
PICARD: I hope they're all safely back on the Enterprise by now.
GUINAN: But you're still here.
PICARD: You were hurt. I had to make sure you were all right.
GUINAN: And so you stayed for that?
PICARD: I didn't want anything to happen to you. You're far too important to me.
GUINAN: You know an awful lot about me.
PICARD: Believe me, in the future the tables will be turned.
GUINAN: So we become friends?
PICARD: It goes far beyond friendship.
GUINAN: Oh, but I'll have to wait almost five hundred years, and when we meet I won't be able to tell you about this, will I?
PICARD: No. Because for me, none of this will have happened yet.
GUINAN: What's that?
PICARD: That's history fulfilling itself.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: History has to fulfill itself. Even Picard knew that.
RIKER: You were there in the cavern. You know what happened. What am I supposed to do?
GUINAN: If I told you what happened in that cavern, it would affect any decision you'd make now. I can't do that. I won't.
RIKER: Not telling me might affect my decision. Did you think of that? We're talking about Jean-Luc Picard. I can't sit around and hope it all works out. I've got to do something.

[Corridor]
CLEMENS: Any place that doesn't stock a good cigar doesn't rank high in my book.
TROI: If you must have one, I'm sure we can replicate it for you.
CLEMENS: You think one of these imitations can take the place of a hand wrapped Havana?
TROI: I wouldn't know.
CLEMENS: Well, that's the problem I see here. All this technology it only serves to take away life's simple pleasures. You don't even let a man open the door for a lady.
TROI: I think what we've gained far outweighs anything that might have been lost.
CLEMENS: Oh? Well, I'm not so impressed with this future. Huge starships, and weapons that can no doubt destroy entire cities, and military conquest as a way of life?
TROI: Is that what you see here?
CLEMENS: Well, I know what you say, that this is a vessel of exploration and that your mission is to discover new worlds.

[Turbolift]
CLEMENS: That's what the Spanish said.
TROI: Deck thirty six.
CLEMENS: And the Dutch and the Portuguese. It's what all conquerors say. I'm sure that's what you told that blue-skinned fellow I just saw, before you brought him here to serve you.
TROI: He's one of the thousands of species that we've encountered. We live in a peaceful Federation with most of them. The people you see are here by choice.
CLEMENS: So there're a privileged few who serve on these ships, living in luxury and wanting for nothing. But what about everyone else? What about the poor? You ignore them.
TROI: Poverty was eliminated on Earth a long time ago, and a lot of other things disappeared with it. Hopelessness, despair, cruelty.
CLEMENS: Young lady, I come from a time when men achieve power and wealth by standing on the backs of the poor, where prejudice and intolerance are commonplace and power is an end unto itself. And you're telling me that isn't how it is anymore?
TROI: That's right.
CLEMENS: Well, maybe it's worth giving up cigars for after all.

[Science lab]
TROI: Any luck?
LAFORGE: Not so far. His activating units won't initialize. I thought they would have been protected by his buffering program, but I guess five hundred years is just too long a wait.
CLEMENS: My watch.
LAFORGE: Yeah. It was found in the cavern where Data's head was. I guess after five hundred years, that's not likely to work either.
CLEMENS: Mister Data, I fear I sadly misjudged you. As I have misjudged many things.

[Cavern]
PICARD: Can you communicate?
ALIEN: Yes.
PICARD: You're injured.
ALIEN: Why have you interfered with us?
PICARD: You hunt us. You kill us. We cannot allow that.
ALIEN: We need your energy.
PICARD: Perhaps we can find a substitute.
ALIEN: No. There is none. We must continue.
PICARD: We know how you move back and forth through time. My crew have returned to the twenty fourth century to destroy your transport site on Devidia Two.
ALIEN: Destroy it? Your weapons will only amplify the time distortion. You will annihilate your own world.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I'm going back for Captain Picard. Mister Worf, assemble an Away team to accompany me to the surface. Doctor, I need to know anything you can tell me about that ophidian.
CRUSHER: I've just started running some tests. If I can have a few hours.
RIKER: I can't give the alien any more time.
CRUSHER: Will, I haven't been able to determine if our phaser energy can generate a stable field. The risk would be
RIKER: I'll take that risk.
WORF: Sir. Permission to speak frankly.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF: Our priority is to stop the aliens from any more incursions to Earth. Any delay is unacceptable.
RIKER: If I can save Captain Picard, I consider that very acceptable.
WORF: The Captain would not. I recommend we target photon torpedoes on the alien habitat and destroy it. Immediately.
TROI: He's right, Will.
RIKER: Power up the photons, Mister Worf. Alert me when they're ready.

[Science lab]
LAFORGE: Computer, initialize the reload circuits.
COMPUTER: Reload circuits are initializing.
LAFORGE: Okay. Data? This ought to do it.
LAFORGE: I don't get it. I don't understand why isn't this working. Computer, run me a diagnostic on the input polarizers.
COMPUTER: There is intermittent contact in the input polarizers.
LAFORGE: Intermittent?
LAFORGE: What? An iron filing. How'd that get in there?

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, I have set the photons to fire in staggered rounds, detonating in ten second intervals.
RIKER: Very well. Fire when ready.
WORF: The sequence will be ready to initiate in one minute.

[Science lab]
LAFORGE: Computer, run another diagnostic on the input polarizers.
COMPUTER: Polarizer circuits are functioning.
LAFORGE: Well, then, that ought to do it. Okay, Data. Come on, now.
DATA: Torpedoes. Phasing. Alien. I am processing a binary message entered into my static memory by Captain Picard. Geordi, are we planning to fire on the alien habitat?
LAFORGE: Yeah, but
DATA: It is imperative that we do not. I will explain later.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Riker. Hold your fire!

[Bridge]
DATA: The binary message left by the Captain is not entirely clear. He seemed to be concerned about the phase differential of our photon torpedoes. That firing them might produce catastrophic effects.
CRUSHER: Then how do we destroy their habitat?
DATA: If I am correct, we must modify our weapons so that the force of the explosion is re-phased into the aliens' time continuum.
LAFORGE: If we outfit the photons with phase discriminators we could get the variance we need.
RIKER: How long will it take you?
LAFORGE: At least a couple of hours.
RIKER: Fine. I'll have time to go get him.
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: I'm going back to the nineteenth century to get the Captain. Doctor?
CRUSHER: My analysis of the phasers suggests you'd be able to open the rift, but it won't be stable enough to transport more than one person.
RIKER: You mean if I go back, only one of us can return?
CRUSHER: That's right.
CLEMENS: Then I have the perfect solution for you. I'm the one who should return to the nineteenth century and remain there so your Captain can return here.
RIKER: There's a risk. We're not sure how stable the rift will be.
CLEMENS: There's risk in everything. The point is, it's the right choice. I've got more books to write, and your Captain has a job to do here.
RIKER: Geordi, you'll brief him on what he needs to know?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
CLEMENS: I'm glad I have the chance to thank you.
DATA: For what, sir?
CLEMENS: Why, for starting me out on the greatest adventure a man's ever had. And for helping a bitter old man to open his eyes and see that the future turned out pretty well after all.

[Cavern]
GUINAN: I'm thirsty.
PICARD: I'm going to get help. We have to get you out of here.
GUINAN: No, don't go. They'll be back for you soon.
PICARD: No, you need help.
CLEMENS: This thing put me down in the middle of Market Street. Took forever to get here.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander La Forge has completed the reconfiguration of the photon torpedoes.
RIKER: If Clemens got back, the Captain should have been here by now.
WORF: We have no way of knowing if Mister Clemens was successful.
RIKER: Re-establish your firing pattern, Mister Worf. We'll wait five more minutes.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Cavern]
CLEMENS: No time for chit chat, sir. According to Mister La Forge, who did get your message by the way, a frequency setting of point oh four seven on your phaser will correctly activate this creature.
PICARD: Now you have to get help. Guinan needs medical attention.
CLEMENS: I promise you she will be attended to.
PICARD: And there is a bill to be settled at Mrs. Carmichael's boarding house.
CLEMENS: I'll settle it.
PICARD: Thank you. I wish, I wish time would have allowed me to know you better.
CLEMENS: You'll just have to read my books. What I am is pretty much there.
GUINAN: I'll see you in five hundred years, Picard.
PICARD: And I'll see you in a few minutes.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up massive triolic wave activity on the surface.
RIKER: Is it the Captain?
DATA: There are no human life signs.
RIKER: No sign of a temporal distortion?
DATA: No, sir, but triolic activity is increasing.
RIKER: The aliens. Mister Worf, are the photons ready?
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Fire.
WORF: Torpedoes away, sir.
DATA: Sir, I am detecting a temporal distortion on the surface and human life signs.
RIKER: O'Brien, get him out of there!
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got him?
PICARD (voiceover): He has indeed, Commander. And believe me, it's good to be back.
WORF: We have destroyed the target. There is no further indication of triolic activity.
RIKER: Ensign, lay in a course to the nearest Starbase. Warp six.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46001.3. Everyone who should be in the nineteenth century is safely there, and those who should be in the twenty fourth are here. Mister Data has been restored to us, head and all, and Samuel Clemens will write the books he was to have written after our encounter.

[Cavern]
CLEMENS: Now be careful, boys. Don't jostle her too much. Don't worry, Madam Guinan, you're going to be fine. (as young Guinan is stretchered away, Clemens picks up his broken watch then puts it down again to be found with the other artifacts in 500 years time)

[Bridge]
PICARD: Magnify.
RIKER: The last report we have says they were observing the streamer at medium range. Maybe they went in for a closer look, got more than they bargained for.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: Our scanners cannot penetrate the plasma streamer's distortion field.
PICARD: Can we tractor them out?
DATA: No, sir. Ionic interference is too heavy.
RIKER: I'll take a shuttle in.
PICARD: Too risky. You could be pulled in too. Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge, can we beam an away team onto the science ship?
LAFORGE: We can beam them over there, Captain, but with all this interference, we might not get a positive lock to bring them back.
BARCLAY: Commander, if we bridged our transporter system with theirs we might be able to cut through the ionic field.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, Barclay. Captain, I think we can do it. We're going to bridge the two transporter systems.
PICARD (voiceover): Acknowledged. Meet Commander Riker in Transporter room three.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. Barclay, I'm going to need a systems engineer on this Away Team.
BARCLAY: I'll ask Ensign Dern to join you.
LAFORGE: I meant you, Barclay.
BARCLAY: Shouldn't I stay here and set up the remote link?
LAFORGE: Dern can do that. Come on, let's go.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Status, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: I'll have to send you over one at a time, Commander, because of band width limitations, and the transport cycle will take a little longer.
RIKER: How much longer?
O'BRIEN: Four, five seconds. About twice the normal time. I'm afraid you're in for a bumpy ride, Commander.
BARCLAY: What do you? What exactly do you mean by a bumpy ride?
O'BRIEN: There may be a small amount of static charge accumulation. You'll feel a bit of tingling. It's nothing to worry about.
RIKER: Let's do it. Mister Worf.
O'BRIEN: Engaging system interlock. Pattern buffers synchronized. Phase transition coils at stand by. Energizing. He's there.
RIKER: I'll go next.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers synched. Energizing.
CRUSHER: I'm ready.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers synched. Oh, wait a minute. I'm reading an ionic fluctuation in the matter stream. Oh, no problem. Okay. Energizing.
LAFORGE: Reg, you're up. Reg.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers in synch. Phase coils
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, I just can't do this.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Reg, you were faced with a difficult transport. Anyone would have been apprehensive in that situation.
BARCLAY: Tell that to Commander La Forge and the rest of the away team.
TROI: I'm sure they understand. As soon as you feel up to it, you can probably still join them.
BARCLAY: No!
TROI: Reg, is there something you're not telling me?
BARCLAY: Actually, this isn't the first time I've been apprehensive. Every single time that I tried to do it, I had a certain feeling. I guess you could call it mortal terror.
TROI: Why have you kept it a secret?
BARCLAY: Why? Because my career in Starfleet would be over, that's why.
TROI: I doubt that.
BARCLAY: I've always managed to avoid it somehow. You wouldn't believe how many hours that I've logged in shuttlecraft. I mean, The idea of being deconstructed, molecule by molecule. It's more than I can stand. Even when I was a child, I always had a dreadful fear that if ever I was dematerialized that I would never come back again whole. I know it sounds crazy, but
TROI: It's not crazy about it. You are being taken apart molecule by molecule. Reg, you're not the first person to have anxiety about transporting. We can desensitize you to this type of fear. It's a slow and gradual process, but it works.
BARCLAY: It does? How?
TROI: Well, you might first try a relaxation technique, like plexing.
BARCLAY: Plexing?
TROI: Yes, it's a Betazoid method. The next time you feel nervous about transporting, you stimulate a neural pressure point, like this.
TROI: There's a nerve cluster just behind the carotid artery. It stimulates the part of the brain that releases natural endorphins.
BARCLAY: Plexing. Sounds easy enough.
TROI: Here. There.
BARCLAY: You know, I feel better already. I think I can do this.
TROI: There's no need to rush.
BARCLAY: No, no. We talked about confronting my fears. The best way out is through. You said that once, remember?
TROI: I suppose I did.
BARCLAY: I'm going to beam over there. I can do it.

[USS Yosemite Bridge]
RIKER: There's no sign of any survivors. No sign of anyone.
LAFORGE: Maybe they abandoned ship.
WORF: Unlikely. The escape pods are still on board.
LAFORGE: There was an explosion. That much we do know.
RIKER: Any idea what caused it?
LAFORGE: I've ruled out a reactor core failure and there's no sign of a systems overload.
WORF: Blast analysis indicates the explosion originated here, in the center of the transport chamber.
LAFORGE: How is that possible? The transporter is still functioning.
RIKER: Could they have beamed an explosive device aboard?
CRUSHER: Commander Riker? Could you come here, please.
RIKER: Excuse me.

[USS Yosemite]
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Joshua Kelly. He was the ship's engineer.
RIKER: How did he die?
CRUSHER: He has second and third degree burns over most of his body, but I don't think they were the cause of his death. I'm like to take him back to do an autopsy.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: You're sure about this, sir?
BARCLAY: Sure. Please proceed.
O'BRIEN: It'll only take a minute. It should be a smooth ride over.
BARCLAY: Good. Good.
O'BRIEN: I know how you feel about this, sir.
BARCLAY: You're afraid of transporting, too?
O'BRIEN: No. Arachnids. Sickening, crawly little things, don't you think? All those legs.
BARCLAY: Spiders? They've never bothered me.
O'BRIEN: A few years back, I was called in to re-route an emitter array at a Starbase on Zayra Four. Turns out the entire system was infested with Talarian hook spiders. You ever seen a Talarian hook spider? Their legs are half a meter long. Well, I had a choice. Do I walk away and let the emitter blow itself to hell, or do I crawl in the Jeffries tube with twenty hook spiders?
BARCLAY: What happened?
O'BRIEN: It was the hardest thing I ever did, but I got through it. After that, I was never quite as afraid of spiders.
BARCLAY: Thanks.
O'BRIEN: Energizing.

[USS Yosemite Bridge]
LAFORGE: Reg. Welcome aboard. You ready to work?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Good. Why don't you start by downloading the ship's science logs over there.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Still four members of the crew unaccounted for. Did you come up with anything?
LAFORGE: I don't know how these fit in, but I found them all around the transporter platform.
RIKER: What are they?
LAFORGE: They look like pieces of a standard sample container.
RIKER: Take them back to the ship, analyze them there. Mister Barclay. Glad you could join us.
BARCLAY: Me too, sir.

[Ready room]
HAYES (screen): The Ferengi are claiming two of their freighters were destroyed by a Cardassian warship in your sector.
PICARD: Is there any evidence to support this?
HAYES (screen): Although I'm loathe to believe the Ferengi about anything, there was evidence of Cardassian weapons. If the Cardassians also attacked the Yosemite, it could indicate a large scale movement into this sector.
PICARD: I have an away team on board the ship. The initial report indicates there was an explosion on board, but we're not sure if it was from an attack.
HAYES (screen): How soon until you know?
PICARD: A few hours. If it looks like Cardassians, I'll contact you immediately.
HAYES (screen): Very well.
DATA (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA (voiceover): The away team is returning to the Enterprise, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Have Commander Riker come to my Ready room as soon as he's on board.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Transporter room three. I'm ready to go.
O'BRIEN: Stand by, Commander.

[USS Yosemite]
BARCLAY: Barclay to Enterprise. One to beam back.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Stand by, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: You see, sir? That wasn't so bad, was it.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Mission logs, science logs, medical logs, they're all scrambled. Looks like the blast wiped out the ship's core memory.
BARCLAY: We could try to reconstitute the data stream.
LAFORGE: It's worth a try.
BARCLAY: Commander, has anything strange ever happened to you during transport?
LAFORGE: Like what?
BARCLAY: I don't know. Anything out of the ordinary.
LAFORGE: No, not really. This looks hopeless. We're not going to get anything out of these logs. You know, maybe this broken sample container I found can tell us something. Let's try to get this thing back into one piece.
BARCLAY: I mean, have you ever seen anything?
LAFORGE: Where?
BARCLAY: In the, during transport.
LAFORGE: Sometimes my visor picks up resonance patterns from the matter energy conversion. It's actually kind of pretty. Why?
BARCLAY: Just wondering.
LAFORGE: Reg, what are you getting at? Did you saw something during transport?
BARCLAY: When I was returning to the Enterprise I could've sworn I saw something in the matter stream.
LAFORGE: Something?
BARCLAY: There was phased matter all around. At first I thought it was some kind of energy discharge, but then it flew toward me and it touched my arm. How could something be in there? Molecules flying apart, half phased? I mean, it's impossible, isn't it?
LAFORGE: We'd better check it out. When we're done here, we'll run a full diagnostic on the transporter, all right?
BARCLAY: All right.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The confinement beam subsystems check out. So do the phase transition coils.
LAFORGE: The pattern buffer is fine.
O'BRIEN: Emitter pads, targeting scanners, they're all working fine. This system's clean. So is the science vessel's.
LAFORGE: Reg, there's a lot of energy floating around in the beam. Maybe you saw a surge in the matter stream.
BARCLAY: Yeah.
O'BRIEN: I'll run a scan on the Heisenberg compensators.
BARCLAY: No, Chief, you've done enough already.
O'BRIEN: It's no problem. Why don't you give me a hand?
BARCLAY: You know, maybe ignorance really is bliss.
O'BRIEN: Sir?
BARCLAY: Well, if I didn't know so much about these things, maybe they wouldn't scare me so much. I can still remember the day in Doctor Olafson's Transporter Theory class when he was talking about the body being converted into billions of kiloquads of data, zipping through subspace, and I realized there's no margin for error. One atom out of place and poof! You never come back. It's amazing people aren't lost all the time.
O'BRIEN: With all due respect, sir, I've been doing this for twenty two years and I haven't lost anybody yet.
BARCLAY: Yes, but you realize if these imaging scanners are off even a thousandth of a percent.
O'BRIEN: That's why each pad has four redundant scanners. If any one scanner fails, the other three take over.
LAFORGE: Reg, how many transporter accidents have there been in the last ten years? Two? Three? There are millions of people who transport safely every day without a problem.
BARCLAY: I've heard of problems. What about transporter psychosis?
O'BRIEN: Transporter Psychosis? There hasn't been a case of that in over fifty years. Not since they perfected the multiplex pattern buffers.
LAFORGE: Reg, transporting really is the safest way to travel.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'd like to take a closer look at those burns. Take a tissue sample, please.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Damage to the epidermis only. Initiate a circulatory probe.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher!
CRUSHER: His heart's beating! Cardio-stimulator. Now. It's gone.
OGAWA: Neuro-electrical activity in the cerebral cortex. Nothing.
CRUSHER: Now the respiratory system's active. What the hell is going on?

[Barclay's quarters]
BARCLAY: Water, ten degrees Celsius. Computer, access Starfleet Medical Database. Tell me about, er. Describe the disorder transporter psychosis.
COMPUTER: Transporter psychosis was diagnosed in the year twenty two oh nine by researchers on Delinia Two.
BARCLAY: No, no stop. All I need is, what causes it?
COMPUTER: It is caused by a breakdown of neuro-chemical molecules during transport, affecting the body's motor functions, autonomic systems, and the brain's higher reasoning centers.
BARCLAY: What are the symptoms?
COMPUTER: Victims suffer from paranoid delusions, multi-infarct dementia, hallucinations.
BARCLAY: Hallucinations? What kind of hallucinations?
COMPUTER: Victims experience somatic, tactile and visual hallucinations, accompanied by psychogenic hysteria. Peripheral symptoms include sleeplessness, accelerated heart rate, diminished eyesight leading to acute myopia, painful spasms in the extremities, and in most cases, dehydration.
BARCLAY: Computer what is the treatment for transporter psychosis?
COMPUTER: There is no known treatment.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: The autopsy showed residual ionization in every one of Lieutenant Kelly's systems. I think that's what caused the muscular and systemic contractions.
RIKER: From where did the ionization come?
CRUSHER: There's evidence of electrical burns on the victim's body, as if he was exposed to ionized gas or high energy plasma.
LAFORGE: Plasma? There's no way they could've been exposed, unless it was matter from the streamer.
PICARD: Is there evidence of a hull breach? Could plasma from the streamer have found its way into the ship?
LAFORGE: No. Data, what's the report on that broken sample container?
DATA: The analysis of the fragments is not yet complete.
LAFORGE: Captain, if there's evidence of similar ionization in those fragments, it could mean they tried to beam aboard material from the streamer.
PICARD: If the plasma exploded that would explain a few things. Let me know when the analysis is complete.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: From the looks of these fracture patterns, I'd say that the explosive force came from within the container.
DATA: The container does show evidence of residual ionization. I believe your hypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy plasma.
LAFORGE: So they were collecting samples from the plasma streamer. They had the proper container. How could it have exploded?
DATA: Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see what happens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. We'll prepare a new container. Reg, I don't want to take any chances here. Start setting up a level five containment field here in Engineering, okay?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Are you all right, Lieutenant?
BARCLAY: I'm fine. Yes, thank you.
DATA: Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with his physiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as well as his visual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Reg?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir?
LAFORGE: You okay?
BARCLAY: I'm just fine, sir.
LAFORGE: You look a little pale.
BARCLAY: I do?
LAFORGE: Look, Reg, it's been a long couple of days. Why don't you get some rest. We've got everything under control here.
BARCLAY: I think I'll do that, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Counselor Troi.
TROI (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Counselor, do you have a minute?

[Corridor]
TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, I've been calling you, why haven't you responded? Reg, what are you doing?
BARCLAY: I'm walking.
TROI: I can see that. Where are you going?
BARCLAY: Nowhere. I just don't get to these decks very often. Look, there's Stellar Cartography. I thought that was deck eleven.
TROI: Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I was I was having trouble sleeping and I'm trying to wear myself out. It is a perfectly normal thing to be doing, isn't it?
TROI: Commander La Forge said you seemed a little nervous this morning.
BARCLAY: I'm always nervous. Everybody knows that.
TROI: He also mentioned that you said you saw something in the transporter beam.
BARCLAY: Well I was wrong. They checked the transporter and there wasn't. I mean, there was nothing there. I imagined the whole thing.
TROI: You don't sound very convinced of that.
BARCLAY: Listen, Counselor, I really appreciate your concern in this matter but I really wish you wouldn't continue this conversation. I'm really perfectly fine.
TROI: Mister Barclay, you're exhausted and highly agitated, and I cannot allow a member of this crew to endanger himself and others. I think
BARCLAY: I'm not endangering anyone else and I wish you would
TROI: I think it would be in your best interest to take a leave of absence. Reg, I'm temporarily relieving you of duty.
BARCLAY: Fine, fine. Do what you have to do, Counselor.

[Barclay's quarters]
BARCLAY: Computer more birds. End stress reduction program. Water.
COMPUTER: Specify temperature.
BARCLAY: I don't care. Just give me water!
BARCLAY: Calm, calm, stay calm. All right, Computer, let's try some music. Something soothing.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Sir, begging your pardon, but couldn't this wait til the morning?
BARCLAY: No. Chief, I've just, I've been reviewing the transport logs. What are these energy variations that keep appearing? There was one when I transported to the science ship, you see?
O'BRIEN: They're just ionic fluctuations, sir. A result of our interlock with the Yosemite's transporter system.
BARCLAY: A fluctuation occurred while I was inside the matter stream?
O'BRIEN: It's nothing to worry about, sir.
BARCLAY: I need you to transport me to the science ship and then directly back again. And while I'm in the beam, can you recreate one of those ionic fluctuations?
O'BRIEN: I guess so. But if you don't mind my asking, sir, what for?
BARCLAY: I need. Commander La Forge wants some tricorder readings on those fluctuations.
O'BRIEN: We can do that from right here.
BARCLAY: No, I, the transporter sensors may not be sensitive enough. I'm giving you an order, Mister O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. If you don't mind my making an observation, sir, you forgot to bring a tricorder.
BARCLAY: Either there's something in there or I'm going crazy, and I've just got to know. You can understand that, can't you?
O'BRIEN: Yes sir, I can. Stand by, sir.
BARCLAY: I want you to wake the senior staff.

[Observation lounge]
BARCLAY: Then I saw it again, just twenty minutes ago. It was the same exact thing just moving around in the transporter beam.
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You think this thing was alive?
BARCLAY: It was dark and distorted, and it had what looked like a mouth.
WORF: A mouth.
CRUSHER: I don't see anything wrong with his arm.
TROI: Reg, why did you wait so long to tell anybody about your arm?
BARCLAY: Well, I thought I was hallucinating, that I had, that it was transporter psychosis. But now I know what I saw in there was real. I was the only one who experienced ionic fluctuations in the transport. Maybe that's why no one else saw it.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I've been told you've been under a considerable amount of strain the past couple of days. Isn't it possible that you simply imagined
BARCLAY: I know what you're going to say, Captain. I know I've been acting strange lately. But you've got to believe me. I would never have called you in here unless I was absolutely certain.
PICARD: Commander La Forge, get Mister O'Brien. Take that transporter system apart piece by piece if you have to. Mister Worf, I want a level three security alert until further notice.
WORF: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: I'll run a micro-cellular scan of Mister Barclay's arm. It might take some time, but if there's a problem, I'll find it.
PICARD: Keep me apprised. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'm reading minute levels of residual ionization in the subdermal tissue of his left arm. The patterns correspond exactly to those we measured in Lieutenant Kelly's body and in the sample container from the science ship. There's no question. You have been exposed to the same high energy plasma they were.
BARCLAY: So something did happen to me in the transporter beam.
CRUSHER: You might've been exposed to something from the science ship. You did say something touched your left arm during transport, and that's exactly where the ionization is focused.
RIKER: Does this ionization pose a threat to Mister Barclay?
CRUSHER: It might. I'll have to run a base pair correlation to see if there's any sign of DNA breakdown.
BARCLAY: Sir, Commander La Forge and I were planning to recreate the circumstances of the explosion on the Yosemite. That might give us some answers. Permission to continue with the experiment?
RIKER: Granted. Tell Mister O'Brien to take all the primary transporters offline. I don't want to risk any further contaminations. Make sure you take all the necessary safety precautions.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: I'd like you to wear this monitoring device. It will tell me if there's the slightest sign of increased ionization.
BARCLAY: Yes, Doctor.

[Engineering]
DATA: Structural reinforcement is at two hundred forty percent.
LAFORGE: Activating containment field. Well, that should do it. Okay, Reg. We've locked onto the coordinates of the plasma streamer. Go ahead and beam aboard a sample, will you?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Okay. What would they have done first?
DATA: A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan.
LAFORGE: That sounds like a good place to start. Let's get it done.
DATA: Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three
LAFORGE: Barclay, check the containment field.
BARCLAY: The field is at its maximum limit, but it is holding.
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up bio-magnetic energy. Highly complex patterns. You know, I think these things are alive. Reg.
LAFORGE: Reg? Reg.

[Sickbay]
BARCLAY: Life forms?
DATA: That is correct. They appear to be quasi-energy microbes that exist within the distortion field of the plasma streamer.
LAFORGE: We didn't detect them until we tried to run the resonance frequency scan. Apparently, they didn't like it very much. They shattered the sample container.
BARCLAY: Which caused a plasma explosion similar to the one on the science ship.
LAFORGE: Exactly. When we linked up with their transporter system, one or more of the microbes must have got into our system. We think they're still caught in the buffer. It might explain what you saw.
BARCLAY: But what I saw was much bigger than a microbe.
DATA: Normal spatial relationships are often distorted within the matter stream. Your perceptions may have been exaggerated.
CRUSHER: Some of these microbes are also in your body, Reg.
BARCLAY: Inside me?
CRUSHER: They were in Lieutenant Kelly's body as well. That's what caused the contractions during the autopsy.
LAFORGE: The biofilter should have screened them out but it didn't.
DATA: The microbes exist simultaneously as both matter and energy. The biofilter cannot distinguish them from the matter stream.
LAFORGE: Right, but if we held Barclay suspended in mid-transport at the point where matter starts to lose molecular cohesion.
DATA: The molecules would begin to emit nucleonic particles. We may be able to derive a pattern the computer would recognize.
LAFORGE: And then reprogram the biofilters to screen the microbes out. I think this'll work, Reg.
BARCLAY: Suspend me? I don't like the sound of this.
LAFORGE: We'd have to hold you in there for a while.
BARCLAY: How long?
LAFORGE: Thirty, forty seconds. It's tough to tell. But I think it'd be safe.
BARCLAY: But if I'm in the matter stream too long.
DATA: Your pattern would degrade to the point where your signal would be permanently lost.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: After fifteen seconds or so in the beam, you may start to feel light-headed. Try to stay calm. Oh, and it's important not to move around too much.
BARCLAY: Right.
O'BRIEN: Initializing the back-up pattern buffer. Holding at stand by.
LAFORGE: Ready, Reg?
BARCLAY: Energize.
O'BRIEN: Molecular resolution at sixty percent. Engaging static mode. His pattern is locked and holding.
LAFORGE: Starting biofilter scan.
O'BRIEN: Signal's holding.
CRUSHER: The imaging scanners still haven't isolated the microbes.
O'BRIEN: I'll try increasing molecular dispersion.
LAFORGE: His signal resolution's dropped to fifty five percent.
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. I can hold him together.
O'BRIEN: Commander, the signal resolution's down to fifty percent. We need to bring him back.
LAFORGE: I know, I know. Just give me one more second. We need more dispersion. Increase phase transition frequency
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: The imaging scanners are actuating.
LAFORGE: Got it. Pattern acquisition Positive.
O'BRIEN: Programming biofilter.
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Reg. This won't hurt a bit.
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a ninety two percent increase in mass!
LAFORGE: There's something in the beam with him. Security to Transporter room three.
WORF (voiceover): Right away.
O'BRIEN: I'm setting up a force field round the chamber.
CRUSHER: Drop the force field.
BARCLAY: There are more crew members in the beam. You have to grab them and hold on.
WORF: Understood. Follow me.
LAFORGE: Reg, what happened?
BARCLAY: Well, when I saw there was more than one of them, I thought maybe the other crew was trying the same thing that we were.
CREWMAN: We're infected with something. Lieutenant Kelly tried to reprogram the biofilter
LAFORGE: It looks like he pushed molecular dispersion past the integrity point. Your patterns got caught in the beam.
BARCLAY: The residual energy from the plasma streamer. It must've amplified the charge in the buffer enough to keep your patterns from degrading.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46043.6. The reprogrammed biofilter was effective in removing the alien microbes from Mister Barclay and the four crewmembers. The microbes have been returned to the plasma streamer.

[Ten Forward]
BARCLAY: Chief.
O'BRIEN: Lieutenant. I'm glad you could make it. You know, I think this is the first time we've ever spoken outside of the Transporter room.
BARCLAY: Well, to be honest, I always avoided you.
O'BRIEN: Why?
BARCLAY: Because you run the transporters, and I hate the transporters. At least, I used to. So, what's in the box?
O'BRIEN: I thought you might like to meet Christina. Christina, Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY: It's your pet spider.
O'BRIEN: Lycosa tarantula. Don't worry, she won't bite.
BARCLAY: She's very large.
O'BRIEN: I found her on Titus Four. Almost stepped on her by accident. Oh, I'll get us a couple of drinks, okay? Keep an eye on her, will you?
BARCLAY: Sure.
BARCLAY: Er, Chief?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46071.6. We have been called to the aid of a transport ship, which has been attacked near Rekag-Seronia. Hostilities between the two factions on that planet have intensified recently, threatening an important Federation shipping route.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, sensors have located the transport ship. Two Rekag battle cruisers are flanking it.
RIKER: Red alert. Shields up.
WORF: Phasers online. Photon torpedoes armed and ready.
PICARD: Is the transport still under attack?
DATA: The cruisers' weapons are powered up but sir, the Rekag ships are turning and heading out of sensor range.
RIKER: They don't want to take on the Enterprise.
DATA: We are within visual range of the transport, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Sensors indicate damage to the Dorian's subspace emitter. Audio communication only.
PICARD: Open a channel, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starship Enterprise.
TALMADGE (voiceover): Captain Talmadge of the Dorian. Glad you're here we took some shield damage from the Rekag ships but we're still intact.
PICARD: Do you have injuries? Can we assist you in any way?
TALMADGE (voiceover): No injuries, but I'd like permission to transport a couple of our passengers to your ship.
PICARD: Of course.
TALMADGE (voiceover): We're conveying a mediator to Seronia. I think he's the reason the Rekags fired on us. He's
PICARD: Captain, I'm losing you. Go ahead and beam your passengers on board. Counselor, after you've seen to their needs will you escort them to my Ready room.
TROI: Yes, Captain.
RIKER: Cancel Red alert. Mister Worf, take the weapons offline.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
TROI: I'm Counselor Deanna Troi.
ALKAR: Ambassador Ves Alkar, and my mother, Sev Maylor. Counselor, it's imperative that I speak to the Captain.
MAYLOR: You think he's attracted to you, but he isn't. You offer him nothing.
ALKAR: She hasn't been feeling well. Could she be taken to quarters?
TROI: Of course. Chief. I'll take you to Captain Picard.
ALKAR: Mother, go with her.
MAYLOR: Don't pursue him. I won't have it. I'll stop you.

[Ready room]
ALKAR: I am grateful for the Federation's offer to escort me, but if I arrive at Rekag-Seronia on board the Enterprise, the armed flagship of Starfleet, my mission as negotiator of peace will be compromised. There must be a Federation transport ship somewhere in the area that could take me there.
PICARD: With all due respect. Admiral, to put the Ambassador on board another unarmed transport would be to invite a second assault.
ALKAR: I believe the attack on us was an isolated incident, nothing more.
SIMONS (screen): Ambassador Alkar, the Rekag-Seronia dispute has threatened Federation ships for many months. We are grateful that you are willing to undertake this mission and you have our full support.
ALKAR: Thank you, sir.
SIMONS (screen): However, we also recognize that safety is an issue. Not just yours, but the crew that escorts you. To send you on an unarmed transport puts everyone at risk. I think it best if you proceed to Rekag-Seronia aboard the Enterprise.
ALKAR: Then I have no choice.
SIMONS (screen): Once you get to Rekag-Seronia, you can conduct your negotiations as you see fit. Until then, you'll be in good hands with Captain Picard.
ALKAR: I understand, sir.
SIMONS (screen): Good luck, and a successful journey.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir?
PICARD: Set a course for Seronia.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Gymnasium]
WORF: That will be all for today. There will be another class tomorrow at oh seven hundred hours.
TROI: The skills are demanding. You're very disciplined.
ALKAR: I believe in a strong connection between body and mind. You obviously share the same convictions.
TROI: Yes, I do. Only sometimes my body has a problem conforming to my mind's wishes.

[Corridor]
TROI: I would imagine that your self-discipline helps you in your work.
ALKAR: I don't know about that. I think maybe my biggest asset is patience. I let everybody else talk until they're exhausted, and when I start, they're too tired to argue.
TROI: You're going to need all your patience at Seronia. I can't imagine how you'll get the two sides talking to each other.
ALKAR: Neither can I. I won't know that until I get there. I tend to feel my way through a situation.

[Turbolift]
ALKAR: Deck nine. If I were empathic like you, I'd have a real advantage.
TROI: I thought Lumerians were empathic.
ALKAR: Only with each other, not other species. So, I don't have any idea what you might be feeling just now.
TROI: Curiosity. What I sense from you is very unusual. Calmness, serenity, tranquility. You seem to embody the very qualities that you hope to draw out in others.

[Corridor]
ALKAR: Tell me, Counselor, have you ever been involved in diplomatic negotiations?
TROI: Several times with Captain Picard. There have been instances when having an empath along has been helpful.
ALKAR: I'm sure. I could use some of that help. Would you come with me when we reach Seronia?
TROI: If the Captain authorizes it, of course I will.
ALKAR: Good. I hope to see you again.
MAYLOR: You're late.
ALKAR: Mother, I told you that I'd be gone for over an hour.
MAYLOR: You're late because of her. Have you mated with him yet?
TROI: What?
MAYLOR: That's what you want, isn't it?
ALKAR: Mother, please, come in.
MAYLOR: I can always tell. The ones with a certain look in their eye.
TROI: I'd better go.
MAYLOR: And I'll tell you this. If you do, you'll regret it the rest of your life.
ALKAR: Mother. come in please. You should lie down.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Come in.
RIKER: Hi. It's that time again. The dreaded crew evaluation reports.
TROI: Does it have to be today?
RIKER: It's not going to be any easier tomorrow.
TROI: It might.
RIKER: What's wrong?
TROI: I've just had a disturbing encounter with Alkar's mother. She frightens me, Will. The feelings I sense from her are malevolent. They're out of proportion. They're evil.
RIKER: I know she's been sick. She's very old. She's probably senile. Who knows, we could all end up that way some day.
TROI: You're right. Okay, let's get through these evaluations, and when they're done I'm going to reward myself with two ice cream sundaes.
RIKER: First, molecular biology. Lieutenant Jeffrey Fratis.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): Can you report to Ambassador Alkar's quarters? There is an emergency.
RIKER: We're on our way.

[Alkar's quarters]
CRUSHER: Forty cc's inaprovaline.
RIKER: I'm sorry, Ambassador.
ALKAR: She was ill. I should never have brought her along. She was ninety three. She'd lived a long life. I should be grateful for that.
TROI: Alkar, is there anything I can do?
ALKAR: Counselor, there's a funeral meditation. Part of our rituals. As an empath, you're the only person on board who could perform it with me.
TROI: I'll be glad to help.
ALKAR: This meditation is one of our most sacred ceremonies. Hold the stone like this. Rohm gah sevi rohm. Say after me. An end to grief.
TROI: An end to grief.
ALKAR: An end to pain.
TROI: An end to pain.
ALKAR: Strength comes from love.
TROI: Strength comes from love.
ALKAR: And courage from wisdom.
TROI: And courage from wisdom.
ALKAR: Thank you.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Computer today's appointment calendar.
COMPUTER: Oh nine hundred hours, counseling session with Ensign Janeway. Ten hundred hours, counseling session with
TROI: Cancel them. Cancel everything till after lunch.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.

[Morgue]
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, Captain. I'm sorry to bother you, but I'm a little concerned. I haven't been able to determine the cause of death. She was elderly. and Alkar said she had been ill, but I found no evidence of any disease. I did find abnormally high levels of neurotransmitter residue in her cerebral cortex.
PICARD: What are you suggesting?
CRUSHER: I'd like to do an autopsy. I've already spoken to Alkar, and he informs me that Lumerian custom forbids it. Could you speak with him?
PICARD: Do you suspect that her death poses some kind of threat to the Enterprise?
CRUSHER: Well, no.
PICARD: Then we have no alternative but to concur with his wishes.

[Alkar's quarters]
ALKAR: Deanna.
TROI: Hello.
ALKAR: Come in, please.
TROI: I thought you might like some company, if you're not too busy.
ALKAR: Nothing that can't wait. Would you like something to drink?
TROI: No. I'd like you to talk to me.
ALKAR: About?
TROI: About you. I don't know anything about you. And I'd like to.
ALKAR: There's not much to know. I lead a very simple life.
TROI: What kind of woman do you find attractive? Do you find me attractive?
ALKAR: Extremely.
TROI: And when you find someone attractive, what do you usually do?
ALKAR: That depends on a lot of things.
TROI: Is it really so complicated?
ALKAR: It can be.
TROI: Well, perhaps you over think things.
ALKAR: Deanna.
TROI: Yes?
ALKAR: I'm sorry. If I led you to believe? You are very beautiful, but our relationship can't be like that.

[Turbolift]
ENSIGN: Deck four.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: Sir.
TROI: Will.
RIKER: We were supposed to finish the crew evaluation reports.
TROI: Of course. Come in.

[Troi's quarters]
ENSIGN: Sir!
RIKER: As you were.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I was just leaving.
TROI: If there's anything else I need, I know where to find you.
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
TROI: Are you bothered by his being here?
RIKER: Of course not.
TROI: Good. Because it's really none of your business.
RIKER: I know that. I believe we were with Lieutenant Fratis i n molecular biology.
TROI: Why do I think you're upset?
RIKER: I don't know. Could we just continue with the evaluation?
TROI: Will, remember who you're talking to. You are bothered, I can tell.
RIKER: Deanna, I'm sorry I intruded. When you're ready to work, why don't you give me a call.
TROI: I will.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46073.6. We have arrived without incident at Rekag-Seronia, where two members of Ambassador Alkar's delegation have been waiting. They have joined us to report on the situation in the capital city.

[Observation lounge]
JARTH: Things have deteriorated steadily. Rekag sympathizers in outlying districts have attacked several towns.
PICARD: But I was under the impression there was a cease fire agreement.
JARTH: It was broken before it went into effect. A Rekag shuttle strayed into Seronian space and was destroyed by fighter craft.
LIVA: Naturally, the Rekags retaliated. There's been fighting ever since.
ALKAR: If they would just sit down with me.
JARTH: The Rekags won't go into Seronian territory for talks. And the Seronians won't go to Rekag. In the meantime, they fight.
PICARD: Ambassador, the situation sounds so volatile. Perhaps a cooling off period?
ALKAR: These people need an end to the fighting now. To delay a week, even a few days, could cost thousands of lives.
PICARD: Then I would recommend that we ask both sides if they would agree to meet in the city of Darthen.
LIVA: Why Darthen?
PICARD: It's a coastal city that has been neutral throughout the conflict. Both Seronians and Rekag loyalists live there. It might be acceptable as a compromise.
ALKAR: Contact the leaders. If they'll meet me in Darthen, I will join them there tomorrow.

[Troi's office]
JANEWAY: I know it must be my imagination, but it seems as though Lieutenant Pinder just doesn't want me in his section.
TROI: What makes you think that?
JANEWAY: He's so critical. I can't ever do anything to please him and I try, Counselor, I try to make sure there's nothing he could find fault with.
TROI: Give me an example of what you mean.
JANEWAY: Well, yesterday I was running routine diagnostics on the sensor pallets. They checked out, but Lieutenant Pinder questioned me because I'd allowed a point oh two three variance. That's well within specifications. He goes out of his way to criticize me.
TROI: Do you know of any reason why he might do that?
JANEWAY: No, that's why I'm here.
TROI: Well, maybe he's just tired of hearing you complain.
JANEWAY: Pardon me?
TROI: I know I'm certainly tired of it. How do you think it feels to sit and listen to someone whine about themselves all the time?
JANEWAY: I didn't realize I was
TROI: This isn't Starfleet Academy. You're not going to be coddled. If you can't take it here, then you might think about a transport ship. There's a lot less pressure there.
JANEWAY: But I love being on the Enterprise I don't want to be anywhere else.
TROI: If you aren't up to it then you don't deserve to be here. Isn't that right?
JANEWAY: I guess so.
TROI: So you'd better take a hold of yourself, or be prepared for a transfer.
JANEWAY: I will, Counselor. Thank you.
TROI: Glad I could help.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yeah, here we go. Biofilter log on Sev Maylor.
CRUSHER: Geordi, could this log have been damaged in any way?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There's a discrepancy between the log and the tricorder readings I took just three days later. The tricorder shows massive physiological deterioration compared with her condition when she beamed aboard. I find it hard to believe that so much damage could have occurred in such a short period of time.
LAFORGE: Well I can run a diagnostic of the biofilter system and your tricorder.
CRUSHER: Thanks. Of course, the best way to get the information I need would be to do an autopsy.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Ambassador? We've received word from the Seronian and the Rekag delegates. They've agreed to meet with you in Darthen tomorrow.
ALKAR: Thank you, Commander.
DATA: Counselor Troi has altered her appearance.
TROI: Am I interrupting?
LIVA: Hello, Counselor.
TROI: You want him. I can tell. But you have nothing to give him.
ALKAR: Deanna, could I talk to you in private.
TROI: And you. You're envious of him. You pretend to support him, but secretly you want him to fail.
JARTH: That's not so.
ALKAR: Please, you must return to your quarters.
TROI: I won't. I want to be here, with you.
RIKER: Ambassador, the Counselor and I are needed on the Bridge.
ALKAR: Of course, Commander.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I don't know what you thought you were doing in there, but you were way out of line.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Deck nine.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: All right, Deanna, just what the hell is all this?
TROI: Imzadi, do you still care about me?
RIKER: Of course I care about you. I'm worried about you. What's all this?
TROI: Don't you think I'm attractive?
RIKER: This just isn't you.
TROI: Oh, it is. You want me, don't you?
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: I need you.
RIKER: What is this?
TROI: Please!
TROI: Come in.
ALKAR: Deanna, I'm leaving for the surface.
TROI: You said you'd take me with you.
ALKAR: I know, but that's not possible now.
TROI: You told me I'd be helpful. You needed me.
ALKAR: And I still do. You've done so much for me.
TROI: Then take me. Don't leave me here. Is Liva going with you?
ALKAR: She's been on Seronia for weeks. She knows the people, the situation.
TROI: She wants to take you away from me.
ALKAR: Deanna, you are my anchor. I need you more than you can possibly realize. Do you understand that? I need you here, making it possible for me to do my work.
TROI: I won't let her have you! I'll stop her! I will go with you. Take me with you. Please, Alkar. Don't leave me. Don't do this! No!

[Crusher's office]
RIKER: You wouldn't have recognized her. Her dress, her hair, everything about her. I'm closer to Deanna than I've ever been to anyone, but last night she was someone that I had never seen before.
CRUSHER: And you don't know of anything that might have caused her to behave like that?
RIKER: No. I've thought and thought about it. I don't have an answer.
CRUSHER: Computer, location of Counselor Troi.
COMPUTER: Deck six, corridor B.
CRUSHER: Let's go.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Ambassador, I came to alert you that the Rekags and the Seronians are in disagreement about the seating arrangements at the conference table.
ALKAR: I'm not surprised.
PICARD: The good news, however, is that the cease fire seems to be holding.
ALKAR: And that is by far the best news. Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: Chief.
TROI: Will you take me with you?
PICARD: Deanna?
ALKAR: Deanna, I've already told you I can't
TROI: I won't let her have you
PICARD: Security to Transporter room two.
TROI: Don't try and stop me! No, no, let go!
PICARD: It's nothing, it's superficial. What happened to Deanna?
CRUSHER: All of the systems in her body have elevated readings. Take her to Sickbay. I want to see you in Sickbay too.
ALKAR: Captain, perhaps we should delay transporting to the surface.
PICARD: No. You should proceed with your mission.
ALKAR: Very well.
PICARD: Chief, transport them to the planet surface.
CHIEF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We'll have to sedate her. Twenty cc's of melorazine.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: How's it feeling?
PICARD: It's a little stiff, but it'll be fine.
CRUSHER: It'll disappear in a day or two.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher? I think you should see these readings, Doctor. Her neurotransmitter levels are three hundred percent above normal.
CRUSHER: If you remember, I found extremely high levels of neurotransmitter residue in Alkar's mother.
PICARD: Could Deanna have picked up some kind of disease from her?
CRUSHER: I don't know. I need to do that autopsy. I don't care about the customs of Alkar's people. I need to find out if there's a connection between what killed Maylor and what's happening to Troi.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, contact Ambassador Alkar. I need to speak with him.
OGAWA: Doctor, neural energy is now three hundred forty percent above normal.
WORF (voiceover): Captain, Ambassador Alkar is at the negotiation table and cannot be disturbed.
PICARD: Proceed with the autopsy. Medical log, stardate 46075.1. I have performed an autopsy on Alkar's mother, but instead of answering our questions, the results have created an even deeper mystery.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: I don't have any explanation for this. When I examined Maylor's body, I found her heart, her lungs, her skeletal structure, most of the systems in her body were those of a thirty year old.
PICARD: But how could that be? We both saw the woman.
CRUSHER: That's not all. I compared Maylor and Alkar's DNA. I don't know who that woman was, but she was definitely not his mother. Deanna's condition is deteriorating rapidly. She could die. There are questions that only Alkar can answer.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Meet me in Transporter room two. We're going down to the surface.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Conference chambers anteroom]
ALKAR: No, she wasn't my mother.
PICARD: And she wasn't ninety three years old.
ALKAR: Captain, did you perform an autopsy against my wishes?
PICARD: Yes, for a very good reason. Counselor Deanna Troi is in Sickbay, dying. Doctor Crusher doesn't know the cause of her condition, but I believe you do.
LIVA: Alkar, we need you. The Rekags have withdrawn some of their concessions and the Seronians are threatening to break off the talks.
ALKAR: I'll be right there.
LIVA: But
ALKAR: They've been arguing for hours in there. It seems hopeless. But now, when expectations are lowest, now is the moment I can be most effective. If I'm focused, centerd, free of disquieting thoughts, I can turn these factions toward peace.
PICARD: Alkar
ALKAR: Hear me out, Captain. It's important you understand. You see, I discovered long ago I had the ability to channel my darker thoughts, my unwanted emotions, to others, leaving me unencumbered.
PICARD: Is this what you've done to Counselor Troi?
ALKAR: I hadn't planned it. I'd expected Maylor to live through the negotiation. Her death could not have been more untimely.
PICARD: So then you deliberately used Deanna.
ALKAR: She's an empath. I was reasonably certain I could establish a link with her. Frankly, I was amazed when I saw how quickly she'd aged. Usually my receptacles survive for years.
PICARD: Receptacles?
ALKAR: Come now, Captain. Surely you can see there's a broader canvas here. If I came to these peace talks hindered by unwanted emotions, the Rekags and Seronians would be condemned to go on fighting
PICARD: You cannot explain away a wantonly immoral act because you think it is connected to some higher purpose.
ALKAR: Captain. do you know how many people have died on this planet in the last forty eight hours? Thousands. Deanna Troi is just one individual.
PICARD: That does not justify brutalizing her, nor any of the others you have used.
ALKAR: Ask the Seronian and Rekag children who go to bed each night in fear of their lives. Captain, I get no payment, I have no power base, no agenda. I am willing to risk my life simply to help others.
PICARD: Do you think that makes you appear courageous? Because you're mistaken. You're a coward, Alkar. You exploit the innocent because you're unwilling to shoulder the burdens of unpleasant emotions. Well, this time you will be held accountable. I'm taking you back to the Enterprise to release Counselor Troi.
ALKAR: I have no intention of releasing her now or ever.
LIVA: Alkar, everything is falling apart. You have to come now.
ALKAR: If you'll excuse me, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf.
ALKAR: I'm needed.
LIVA: You and your Security Chief will leave.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Lock on to Alkar's signal. Bring him on board.
WORF: Captain, I am sure the Seronians have re-activated their security field.
PICARD: Then work with Mister La Forge to find a way to break through it. I want that man on this ship.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If Alkar is flooding her with this psychic waste, that would explain the high level of neurotransmitters. All these negative emotions pouring into her have caused an abnormal chemical response in her brain.
RIKER: Isn't there something you can do to counteract it?
CRUSHER: Enzymic decontaminants will be able to reduce the level of the neurotransmitters, but I can't make any headway unless Alkar stops what he's doing.
PICARD: He has no intention of stopping. He feels perfectly justified in using her until she dies.
CRUSHER: Then Deanna has to die. In order to save Deanna, Alkar has to break his link with her. And the only he'll do that is if she's no longer an adequate receptacle. When Maylor died, Alkar turned immediately to Deanna.
PICARD: If Deanna dies, and he breaks the link with her, then he will choose someone else, possibly someone from his own delegation.
RIKER: Wait a minute. You're talking about killing Deanna!
CRUSHER: I'll be able to resuscitate her, Will, as long as it's not more than thirty minutes. The big question is, will that be enough time? Alkar has to establish a link with someone else before we revive Deanna, or else he might turn back to her.
PICARD: We must bear in mind that we'll be putting his next victim at risk. I want every possible security measure taken to protect that person.
RIKER: How will you?
CRUSHER: I'll give her a hypospray of dylamadon. It's the gentlest way.
PICARD: Proceed, Doctor.

[Conference chambers anteroom]
ALKAR: Well, my friend, an era of conflict and bloodshed appears to be over.
LIVA: Alkar.
JARTH: What is it?
ALKAR: I'm fine. Just a little light-headed.
LIVA: You're exhausted.
JARTH: Do you want a doctor?
ALKAR: No of course not.
PICARD (voiceover): Enterprise to Ambassador Alkar. Respond, sir.
ALKAR: I'm here, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ambassador, You must return to the Enterprise immediately. Counselor Troi is dying.

[Conference chambers anteroom]
PICARD (voiceover): We are prepared to transport you from the surface whether you come willingly or not.
JARTH: There are security force fields protecting us, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): They won't protect you any longer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room two, prepare to energize.

[Conference chambers anteroom]
ALKAR: We're ready, Captain.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Computer, make a note. Death occurred at fourteen thirty hours from respiratory and renal failure.
ALKAR: Will you wait for me in my quarters?
LIVA: Of course.
ALKAR: It's a tragic loss, but her death had a purpose.
PICARD: I intend to make certain that you answer for what you have done.
ALKAR: Your own Federation Council has granted me safe and timely passage back to my planet. I expect you to honor that, Captain.
RIKER: How much longer do we have?
CRUSHER: Three minutes and forty seconds.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter Room Two lock on to the young woman in Ambassador Alkar's quarters. We may have to transport her out of there.
CHIEF (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want you to station yourself outside her quarters.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Alkar's quarters]
ALKAR: She helped me so much. Without her, I couldn't have accomplished what I did.
LIVA: I'm so sorry. Is there anything I can do?
ALKAR: Yes, there is something. If we could share the funeral meditation.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We have a minute and a half left. Prepare a hypospray of cordrazine. We'll use that in conjunction with the cortical stimulator.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.

[Alkar's quarters]
ALKAR: Rohm gah sevi rohm. Rohm gah.
LIVA: Rohm gah sevi rohm. Rohm gah.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We can't wait any longer. Release the stasis field. Ten cc's of cordrazine.
OGAWA: Yes, doctor.
CRUSHER: Ten cc's cordrazine. Cortical stimulators. Now.

[Alkar's quarters]
ALKAR: An end An end to pain.
LIVA: An end to pain.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Again.
OGAWA: She has a pulse. Blood pressure climbing. Ninety over forty. Cortical activity approaching normal levels.
CRUSHER: Let's neutralize the neurotransmitters. Initiate decontamination sequence.
OGAWA: Levels are dropping, Doctor. Down to four hundred and twenty percent above normal. Three hundred and ninety percent.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room three
CRUSHER: Not yet. We won't know if it's working till the levels are below three hundred percent.

[Alkar's quarters]
LIVA: Alkar! Alkar, what's wrong?

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Neurotransmitter levels are down to three hundred and ten percent. Two hundred and ninety percent.
CRUSHER: Now.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room three, energize.

[Alkar's quarters]
LIVA: Let me go!

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Neurotransmitter levels are down to two hundred and thirty percent.

[Alkar's quarters]
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard. Ambassador Alkar is dead.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Will.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Beverly thinks Alkar must have been at a susceptible point in the meditation ceremony. He was vulnerable.
TROI: Then the flow of negative emotions and feelings were reversed back to him somehow.
RIKER: That's our guess. Like a man with no immune system, he wasn't able to handle the overload.
TROI: And Liva?
RIKER: She seems to be fine. He wasn't able to establish a link on her.
TROI: Looking back on the past few days, it's as though I'm looking at a holodeck projection of someone else.
RIKER: That's how it seemed to all of us.
TROI: Thanks for sticking by me.
RIKER: I always will. Even when you're old and gray.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I have identified the signal. It is from the USS Jenolen, a Federation transport ship reported missing in this sector seventy five years ago.
RIKER: Code one alpha zero. Ship in distress.
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. All stop.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: We have entered a massive gravitational field, Captain.
DATA: There are no stars or other stellar bodies listed on our navigational charts. However, sensors indicate the presence of an extremely strong gravitational source in this vicinity.
PICARD: Can you localize the source of the gravitational field?
RIKER: Sensors?
DATA: I am having difficulty scanning the object. It appears to be approximately two hundred million kilometers in diameter.
RIKER: That's nearly as large as the Earth's orbit around the sun.
PICARD: Why didn't we detect this before now?
DATA: The object's enormous mass is causing a great deal of gravimetric interference. That might have prevented our sensors from detecting it before we dropped out of warp.
PICARD: Mister Data, could this be a Dyson Sphere?
DATA: The object does fit the general parameters of Dyson's theory.
RIKER: A Dyson Sphere?
PICARD: It's a very old theory, Number One. I'm not surprised that you haven't heard of it. In the twentieth century, a physicist called Freeman Dyson, postulated the theory that an enormous hollow sphere could be constructed around a star. This would have the advantage of harnessing all the radiant energy of that star. A population living on the interior surface would have virtually inexhaustible sources of power.
RIKER: Are you saying you think there are people living in there?
DATA: Possibly a great number of people, Commander. The interior surface area of a sphere this size is the equivalent of more than two hundred and fifty million class M planets.
WORF: Sir, I have located the distress signal. It is coming from a point in the northern hemisphere.
PICARD: Ensign Rager, put us into synchronous orbit above that position.
RAGER: Aye, sir.
DATA: I have located the Jenolen, sir. It is impacted on the surface of the sphere.
PICARD: Magnify.
DATA: There are no life signs. However, there are several small power emanations, and life support is still functioning on minimal levels.
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. Geordi, join us in Transporter room three. Mister Worf.

[Jenolen]
RIKER: This air's pretty stale.
LAFORGE: Life support is barely operating.
RIKER: See if you can increase the oxygen level.
WORF: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Commander. The transporter is still online. It's being fed power from the auxiliary systems.
RIKER: The rematerialization subroutine has been disabled.
LAFORGE: That's not all. The phase inducers are connected to the emitter array. The override is completely gone and the pattern buffer's been locked into a continuous diagnostic cycle.
RIKER: This doesn't make any sense. Locking the unit in a diagnostic mode just sends the matter array through the pattern buffer. Why would anyone want to
LAFORGE: There's a pattern in the buffer still.
RIKER: It's completely intact. There's less than point zero zero three percent signal degradation. How is that possible?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I've never seen a transporter jury-rigged like this.
RIKER: Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for seventy five years?
LAFORGE: I know a way to find out.
SCOTT: Thank you, lad. We've got to get Franklin out of there.
LAFORGE: Someone else's pattern is still in the buffer?
SCOTT: Aye, lad. Franklin. We went in together. Something's wrong. One of the inducers has failed. Boost the gain on the matter stream. Come on, Franklin. I know you're still in there. It's no use. His pattern's degraded fifty three percent. He's gone.
RIKER: I'm sorry.
SCOTT: So am I. He was a good lad.
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker, starship Enterprise. Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge.
SCOTT: The Enterprise? I should have known. I bet Jim Kirk himself hauled the old girl out of mothballs to come looking for me. Captain Montgomery Scott. Tell me, how long have I been missing?
RIKER: Well
WORF: Sir. I have restored life support. The oxygen levels will return to normal shortly.
RIKER: Captain Scott, Lieutenant Worf.
SCOTT: Lieutenant?
WORF: Yes.
RIKER: Captain, perhaps there are a few things we should talk about.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We should probably get you to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher will want to
SCOTT: You've changed the resonator array.
RIKER: Geordi, I think our guest is going to have a lot of engineering questions.
LAFORGE: Not to worry, Commander. I'll take care of him, sir.
SCOTT: What have you done with the duotronic enhancers?
LAFORGE: Those were replaced with isolinear chips about forty years ago. It's a lot more efficient now. That's an EPS power tap.
SCOTT: Ah.
LAFORGE: So, you were saying earlier that you were on your way to the Norpin Colony when you had a warp engine failure?

[Corridor]
SCOTT: Aye, that's right. We had an overload in one of the plasma transfer conduits. The Captain brought us out of warp and we hit some gravimetric interference and then there it was, as big as life. Is that a conduit interface?
LAFORGE: Yeah, it is. You were saying it's big as life. You mean the Dyson Sphere?
SCOTT: Aye, an actual Dyson Sphere. Can you imagine the engineering skills needed to even design such a structure?
LAFORGE: Yeah, it's pretty amazing. So, what happened when you first approached it?
SCOTT: Well, we began a standard survey of the surface, and we were just completing the initial orbital scan when our aft power coils suddenly exploded. The ship got caught in the sphere's gravity well and down we went. Franklin and I were the only ones to survive the crash.
LAFORGE: Can I ask you a question? What in the world made you think of using the transporter pattern buffer to survive?
SCOTT: Well, we didn't have enough supplies to wait for a rescue, so we had to think of something.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but locking it into a diagnostic cycle so that the pattern wouldn't degrade, and then cross-connecting it phase inducers to provide a regenerative power source, that's absolutely brilliant.
SCOTT: I think it was only fifty percent brilliant. Franklin deserved better.
LAFORGE: I think you're going to enjoy the twenty fourth century, Mister Scott. We've made some pretty incredible advances these last eighty years.
SCOTT: From what I've seen, you've got a fine ship, Mister La Forge. A real beauty here. I must admit to being a bit overwhelmed.
LAFORGE: Wait until you see the holodeck.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You have a hairline fracture of the humorous. It will ache for a few days, but it should be fine.
SCOTT: Thank you. Well, I'll say this about your Enterprise. The doctors are a fair sight prettier.
PICARD: I'm Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Captain Scott.
SCOTT: Thank you, sir, and call me Scotty.
PICARD: How are you feeling?
SCOTT: I don't know. How am I feeling?
CRUSHER: Other than a couple of bumps and bruises, I'd say you feel fine for a man of a hundred and forty seven.
SCOTT: I don't feel a day over a hundred and twenty.
PICARD: I must say, I was little surprised when Commander Riker told me that you were aboard the Jenolen. Our records didn't show you listed as a member of the crew.
SCOTT: Well, I was never actually a member of the crew. I was just a passenger. I was heading for Norpin Five to settle down and enjoy my retirement.
PICARD: I see. Well, I would very much enjoy the opportunity to hear you talk about your career. I'm sure you would have some fascinating insights into the events of your time.
SCOTT: I'd be happy to.
PICARD: Good. Well, I look forward to it. Excuse me. Commander, we need to begin a full spectrographic analysis of the Dyson Sphere.
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it, sir.
PICARD: Good. Once again, welcome on board, Captain.
SCOTT: Sir.
LAFORGE: I need to get down to Engineering and begin that analysis.
SCOTT: Engineering? I thought you'd never ask.
CRUSHER: Captain, the first thing you need to get is some rest. Now this has been a shock to your system, and I want you to not push yourself.
LAFORGE: We're pretty busy down there, anyway, Captain Scott. I promise I'd be happy to give you a tour just as soon as the doctor says it's okay.
CRUSHER: I'll have someone show you your quarters.
SCOTT: Aye.

[Scott's quarters]
KANE: This is the food replicator, and your computer terminal.
SCOTT: Good Lord, man, where have you put me?
KANE: These are standard guest quarters, sir. I can try and find something bigger if you want.
SCOTT: Bigger? In my day, even an Admiral wouldn't have had such quarters on a starship. You know, I remember a time we had to transport the Dohlman of Elaas. You never heard anyone whine and complain so much about quarters as she did.
KANE: The holodecks, Ten Forward, and the gymnasium are all at your disposal. The computer can tell you how to find them. Until we issue you a combadge, just use one of these panels if you need anything.
SCOTT: You know, these quarters remind me of a hotel room on Argelius. Oh, now there is a planet. Everything a man wants right at his fingertips. Of course, on the first visit, I got into a wee bit of trouble.
KANE: Excuse me, sir but I have to return to duty.
SCOTT: Oh. Well then. Thank you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I want you to shut down the warp engines and recalibrate the aft sensors while I work on the lateral array.
BARTEL: Aye, sir.
BARTEL (voiceover): Can I help you, sir?
SCOTT (voiceover): Oh, I don't think so, lassie, but I'll let you know if you can.
BARTEL (voiceover): Sir, this area is restricted to authorized personnel
LAFORGE: Bartel, it's okay. I'll handle it. Captain Scott, this really isn't
SCOTT: We're in Engineering. Call me Scotty.
LAFORGE: Scotty, this really isn't a good time for a tour. We're running a phase seven survey of the Dyson Sphere.
SCOTT: I'm not here for a tour, laddie. I'm here to help.
LAFORGE: That's very kind, but I'm sure we can handle it.
SCOTT: I was a Starfleet engineer for fifty two years, Mister La Forge. I think I'm still useful.
LAFORGE: You're right. We'd be grateful for any help you can give us.
SCOTT: Good. Let's get to work.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensor readings indicate the presence of a G-type star at the center of the sphere. There also appears to be a class-M atmosphere clinging to the interior surface.
PICARD: Is there any indication that the sphere is inhabited?
DATA: Not as yet, sir. Our preliminary data suggests it is still capable of supporting life. We have been unable to find definite signs of current habitation.
PICARD: Mister Data, send out a series of class-four probes to survey the far side of the sphere. Perhaps we'll have more luck with them.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Adjust the frequency stabilization on the main deflector dish. It's out of synch with the aft sensors.
SCOTT: Laddie, you need to phase-lock the warp fields within three percent or they'll become unstable.
LAFORGE: What?
SCOTT: Well look here. The warp field is
LAFORGE: We use a multiphase auto-containment field now. It's meant to operate above three percent.
SCOTT: Oh. Well, that would make the difference.
BARTEL: We can re start the engines in ten minutes, Commander.
LAFORGE: Thank you, Lieutenant.
SCOTT: I remember a time when the old Enterprise was spiraling in toward Psi two thousand.
LAFORGE: Thank you.
SCOTT: The Captain wanted to try a cold start of the warp engines. I told him that without a proper phase lock it would take at least thirty minutes You canna change the laws of physics, I told him, but he wouldn't believe me, so I had to come up with a new engine start-up routine. Do you know that your dilithium crystals are going to fracture?
LAFORGE: We recomposite the crystals while they're still inside the articulation frame. Look, Mister Scott, I'd love to explain everything to you, but the Captain wants this spectrographic analysis done by thirteen hundred hours.
SCOTT: Do you mind a little advice? Starfleet captains are like children. They want everything right now and they want it their way, but the secret is to give them only what they need, not what they want.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well I told the Captain I'd have this analysis done in an hour.
SCOTT: How long will it really take?
LAFORGE: An hour.
SCOTT: You didn't tell him how long it would really take, did you?
LAFORGE: Of course I did.
SCOTT: Oh, laddie, you've got a lot to learn if you want people to think of you as a miracle worker. Now listen
LAFORGE: Captain Scott. I've tried to be patient, I've tried to be polite. But I've got a job to do here, and quite frankly, you're in the way.
SCOTT: I was driving starships while your great-grandfather was still in diapers. I'd think you'd be a little grateful for a some help. I'll leave ye to work, Mister La Forge.

[Ten Forward]
WAITER: May I help you, sir?
SCOTT: Aye, lad. Scotch, neat.
WAITER: There you go, sir.
SCOTT: Thank you.
SCOTT: What in blazes is this?
WAITER: Didn't you order Scotch?
SCOTT: Laddie, I was drinking Scotch a hundred years before you were born and I can tell you that whatever this is, it is definitely not Scotch.
DATA: I believe I may be of some assistance. Captain Scott is unaware of the existence of synthehol.
SCOTT: Synthehol?
DATA: Yes, sir. It is an alcohol substitute now being served aboard starships. It simulates the appearance, taste and smell of alcohol, but the intoxicating affects can be easily dismissed.
SCOTT: You're not quite human, are you?
DATA: No, sir. I am an android. Lieutenant Commander Data.
SCOTT: Synthetic Scotch, synthetic commanders.
DATA: I believe Guinan does keep a limited supply of non-syntheholic products. Perhaps one of them would be to your liking.
SCOTT: What is it?
DATA: It is It is It is green.
SCOTT: Ah!

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Please enter program.
SCOTT: The android at the bar said you could show me my old ship. Let me see it.
COMPUTER: Insufficient data. Please specify parameters.
SCOTT: The Enterprise. Show me the Bridge of the Enterprise, you chattering piece of
COMPUTER: There have been five Federation ships with that name. Please specify by registry number.
SCOTT: NCC One Seven Oh One. No bloody A, B, C, or D.
COMPUTER: Program complete. Enter when ready.

[NCC1701 Bridge]
SCOTT: Here's to you, lads.
PICARD: I hope I'm not interrupting. I was just coming off duty and I wanted to see how you were doing.
SCOTT: Not at all, not at all. Have a drink with me, Captain.
PICARD: Thank you.
SCOTT: I don't know what it is, exactly, but I would be real careful. It's real
PICARD: Aldebaran whiskey. Who do you think gave it to Guinan?
SCOTT: Ah.
PICARD: Constitution class.
SCOTT: Aye. You're familiar with them?
PICARD: There's one in the Fleet museum, but then of course, this is your Enterprise?
SCOTT: I actually served on two. This was the first. She was also the first ship I ever served on as Chief Engineer. You know, I served aboard eleven ships. Freighters, cruisers, starships, but this is the only one I think of. The only one I miss.
PICARD: The first ship I ever served aboard as Captain was called the Stargazer. It was an overworked, underpowered vessel, always on the verge of flying apart at the seams. In every measurable sense, my Enterprise is far superior. But there are times when I would give almost anything to command the Stargazer again.
SCOTT: It's like the first time you fall in love. You don't ever love a woman quite like that again. Well, to the Enterprise and the Stargazer. Old girlfriends we'll never meet again.
PICARD: What do you think of the Enterprise D?
SCOTT: She's a beauty, with a good crew.
PICARD: But?
SCOTT: But. When I was here, I could tell you the speed that we were traveling by the feel of the deckplates. But on your ship, I feel like I'm just in the way.
PICARD: Seventy five years is a long time. If you would care to study some technical schematics or
SCOTT: I'm not eighteen. I can't start out like a raw cadet. No, there comes a time when a man finds that he can't fall in love again. He knows that it's time to stop. I don't belong on your ship. I belong on this one. This was my home. This is where I had a purpose. But it's not real. It's just a computer generated fantasy. And I'm just an old man who's trying to hide in it. Computer, shut this bloody thing off. It's time I acted my age.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I understand that before the Jenolen crashed, it had conducted an extensive survey of the Dyson sphere. Have we been able to access any of those records?
LAFORGE: We did try to download their memory core, but it was pretty heavily damaged in the crash. We actually haven't been able to get much out of it.
PICARD: Perhaps Captain Scott could be of use in accessing that material.
LAFORGE: It's possible. He does know those systems better than any of us. I'll have Lieutenant Bartel beam down with him.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I would like you to accompany Captain Scott.
LAFORGE: Me, sir?
PICARD: Yes. Look, this is not an order, it's a request and it's one which you must feel perfectly free to decline. You see, one of the most important things in a person's life is to feel useful. Now, Mister Scott is a Starfleet officer and I would like him to feel useful again.
LAFORGE: I'll go with him, sir.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I believe I have found something on the sphere which could be a communications device. There's an antenna array approximately four hundred thousand kilometers south of our present position. It is emitting low intensity subspace signals.
RIKER: Can you open a channel?
DATA: No, sir, not from our present orbit. The array is currently directed away from us.
RIKER: Ensign, prepare to put us in orbit above those coordinates. Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Are you feeling all right?
SCOTT: Never get drunk unless you're willing to pay for it the next day. I'll manage.
LAFORGE: Okay. Energize.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors indicate that the large circle is a portal or airlock, possibly leading to the interior of the sphere.
RIKER: This looks like the front door. Should we ring the bell?
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to that communications array.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Some type of tractor beam has locked onto us.
RIKER: Helm, get us out of here!
RAGER: We've lost main power. Auxiliary power down to twenty percent.
WORF: We're being pulled inside.
RAGER: Auxiliary power failing.
DATA: The resonance frequency of the tractor beams is incompatible with our power systems. Warp and impulse engine relays have been overloaded. I am attempting to compensate.
RAGER: The tractor beams have released us, sir.
RIKER: Hold position here until we can get our bearings.
PICARD: Full sensor sweep, Mister Data. Where are we?
DATA: Approximately ninety million kilometers from the star's photosphere. I am reading a great deal of surface instability. It may be
RAGER: Sir! The inertial motion from the tractor beams is still carrying us forward. Impulse engines are offline and I can't stop our momentum. We're falling directly into the star.

[Jenolen]
SCOTT: The primary computer database should be online now. Give it a try.
LAFORGE: Okay. I've got three access lines to the central core. Still nothing.
SCOTT: Bunch of old, useless, garbage.
LAFORGE: Huh?
SCOTT: I say it's old, Mister La Forge. It can't handle the interface of your power converter. This equipment was designed for a different era. Now it's just a piece of junk.
LAFORGE: I don't know. It seems like some of it's held together pretty well.
SCOTT: A century out of date. It's just obsolete.
LAFORGE: Well you know, that's interesting because I was just thinking that a lot of these systems haven't changed much in the last seventy five years. This transporter is basically the same system we use on the Enterprise. Subspace radio and sensors still operate under the same basic principle. Impulse engine design hasn't changed much in the last two hundred years. If it wasn't for all the structural damage, this ship might still be in service today.
SCOTT: Maybe so, but when they can build ships like your Enterprise, who'd want to pilot an old bucket like this?
LAFORGE: I don't know. If this ship were operational I bet she'd run circles around the Enterprise at impulse speeds. Just because something's old doesn't mean you throw it away.
SCOTT: We used to have something called a dynamic mode converter. You wouldn't have something like that on your Enterprise would you?
LAFORGE: I haven't seen anything like that in a long time, but I bet I might be able to come up with something similar. La Forge to Enterprise. La Forge to Enterprise, come in, please.
SCOTT: Interference?
LAFORGE: No, they're gone.

[Bridge]
DATA: We will enter the sun's photosphere in three minutes.
PICARD: Maneuvering thrusters?
RIKER: I've got thirty percent power. It won't be enough to stop us.
PICARD: No, but it may be enough to turn us into orbit, hold our distance from the photosphere. Ensign, port thrusters ahead full, starboard thrusters back full.
DATA: Our flight path is changing. Right ten point seven degrees, sir. Insufficient to clear the photosphere.
RIKER: Lieutenant Bartel, divert all power from auxiliary relay systems to the maneuvering thrusters.
BARTEL (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RAGER: We're in orbit, Captain. Our altitude is one hundred fifty thousand kilometers.
RIKER: I'll see about getting main power back online.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, begin a scan of the interior surface for life forms. I want to know who brought us in here and why.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Jenolen]
LAFORGE: I can't find them anywhere in orbit.
SCOTT: They could've crashed into the sphere like the Jenolen.
LAFORGE: No, we'd be picking up background radiation if they'd gone down.
SCOTT: There's another possibility. They could be inside the sphere.
LAFORGE: Maybe. Whatever happened, we've got to find them. If we can get these engines back online, we could track them with their impulse ion trail.
SCOTT: Are ye daft? The main drive assembly's shot, the inducers are melted, and the power couplings are wrecked. We'd need a week just to get started. But we don't have a week, so there's no sense in crying about it. Come on, We'll see what we can do with your power converter.

[Bridge]
DATA: The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors show that the star is extremely unstable. It is experiencing severe bursts of radiation and matter expulsions.
PICARD: Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there's no one still living there, how were we brought inside?
DATA: I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams designed to guide ships into the sphere.
WORF: Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's surface.
DATA: It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B.
PICARD: Shields?
WORF: Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent.
DATA: The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors indicate that the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours, our shields will no longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.

[Jenolen]
SCOTT: Shunt the deuterium from the main cryo-pump to the auxiliary tank.
LAFORGE: The tank can't withstand that kind of pressure.
SCOTT: Where'd you get that idea?
LAFORGE: What do you mean, where did I get that idea? It's in the impulse engine specifications.
SCOTT: Regulation forty two slash fifteen, pressure variances on IRC tank storage?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
SCOTT: Forget it. I wrote it. A good engineer is always a wee bit conservative, at least on paper. Just bypass the secondary cut-off valve and boost the flow. It'll work.
LAFORGE: Okay.
SCOTT: If we've done our jobs properly, the engines should be coming back online about now.
LAFORGE: Hey, you were right. The auxiliary tank is holding.
SCOTT: Take the Bridge, Commander.
LAFORGE: Oh, no, you're the senior officer here.
SCOTT: I may be captain by rank, but I never wanted to be anything else but an engineer.
LAFORGE: All right.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields still holding, sir, but they are down another fifteen percent.
PICARD: Mister Worf, can we use the phasers to open a hole in the sphere?
WORF: No, sir. The exterior shell is composed of carbon neutronium. Our weapons would be ineffective.
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to find some way out of here. Begin scanning for another hatch or portal that might still be open.
DATA: The interior surface area is over ten to the sixteenth square kilometers. It will take seven hours to completely scan the surface.
DATA: I will endeavor to speed up the process, sir.

[Jenolen]
SCOTT: The Enterprise ion trail leads right to this point.
LAFORGE: It looks like some kind of doorway.
SCOTT: I'll bet you two bottles of Scotch that they're inside the sphere and that they went in right through that hatch.
LAFORGE: No bet here. The question is how?
SCOTT: Look at the momentum distribution of the ions. It would take an impulse engine at full reverse to put out a signature like that.
LAFORGE: So they didn't go in willingly. This looks like some kind of communications array.
SCOTT: Aye. We found hundreds of them when we did our initial survey seventy five years ago.
LAFORGE: Did you try hailing them?
SCOTT: Aye. That was standard procedure at the time. We did it right before we crashed.
LAFORGE: Hailing is standard procedure today, too. Scotty, what if those aren't communications arrays? What if they're access terminals which are triggered by subspace signals on certain frequencies.
SCOTT: Frequencies like our standard ship's hail.
LAFORGE: Exactly. The Enterprise, when they saw that terminal, they probably did the same thing you did seventy five years ago. Opened a channel. Only this time they triggered something that activated that hatch and pulled the ship inside the sphere.
SCOTT: Very nice piece of reasoning, laddie. Nice indeed.
LAFORGE: Yeah. We could probably trigger the hatch ourselves, only we'd get pulled in like they were.
SCOTT: Maybe all we need to do is to get our foot in the door. We might not be pulled inside when the hatch opens if we keep our distance from the sphere. Say, half million kilometers. Then when the hatch starts to close, we move in and we use the Jenolen to jam the hatch open, hoping that the Enterprise will escape.
LAFORGE: You can't be serious. That hatch is huge. It'll crush this ship like an egg.
SCOTT: Geordi, the shields will hold. Don't worry about that. I can get a few extra gigawatts out of these babies.
LAFORGE: Scotty, it's crazy.
SCOTT: Geordi. I have spent my whole life trying to figure out crazy ways of doing things. I'm telling you, as one engineer to another, I can do this.
LAFORGE: All right. Let's do it.
LAFORGE: We're at five hundred thousand kilometers.
SCOTT: Engines are ready.
LAFORGE: Okay. Here we go.
LAFORGE: Come on. There's nothing out here. Give it up.
LAFORGE: That's it. Let's go! Full impulse.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, there is an audio message from Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Enterprise, do you read me?
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander. We read you.

[Jenolen]
LAFORGE: We're using the Jenolen to hold open the hatch that you came through, but our shields aren't going to hold out much longer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Understood. Ensign, set a course.

[Jenolen]
SCOTT: The plasma intercooler's gone. The engines are overheating.
LAFORGE: I've lost helm control. La Forge to Enterprise. Captain, we're not going to be able to move this ship out of the way when you get here.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): You're going to have to destroy it in order to escape.
PICARD: How much longer before we reach them?
DATA: With impulse engines operating at sixty percent power, it will take one minute and forty seconds.
PICARD: Bridge to Transporter room three. Prepare to beam two from the Jenolen as soon as we're within range.

[Jenolen]
SCOTT: It's coming apart, Lad. I can't do anything else.

[Bridge]
WORF: Photon torpedoes armed and ready, sir.
DATA: We are within transporter range.
PICARD: Bridge to Transporter room. Energize.
CHIEF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Fire torpedoes.

[Transporter room]
SCOTT: There now, that wasn't so bad, was it?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46125.3. Starfleet has dispatched two science vessels to study the Dyson Sphere while we proceed to Starbase fifty five.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: So, this alien space baby, which was about the size of a four story building, really thought the Enterprise was its mother.
SCOTT: You're pulling an old man's leg.
LAFORGE: No, really. It was suckling power directly from the ship's fusion reactors, so Doctor Brahms and I changed the power frequency from twenty one centimeters to point oh two centimeters.
SCOTT: You soured the milk.
LAFORGE: That's right.
SCOTT: Enjoy these times, Geordi. You're the chief engineer of a starship, and it's a time of your life that'll never come again. When it's gone, it's gone. Now, lad, I thought you were going to buy me a drink in Ten Forward.
LAFORGE: Actually, I had a better idea.

[Shuttlebay]
SCOTT: You're giving me one of your shuttles?
PICARD: Well, call it an extended loan. Since you lost your ship saving ours, it seemed only fair.
RIKER: She's not much to look at.
SCOTT: Laddie, every woman has her own charm. You just have to know where to look for it.
LAFORGE: She's a little slow, but she'll certainly get you to the Norpin colony. If that's really where you want to go.
SCOTT: The Norpin Colony is for old men to retire. Maybe someday I'll end up there, but not yet.
PICARD: Well, bon voyage, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Thank you, sir, for everything.
DATA: Mister Scott.
TROI: Goodbye.
SCOTT: Bye, bye.
RIKER: Scotty.
SCOTT: Thank you.
CRUSHER: Bye. Be well.
SCOTT: A good crew.
LAFORGE: Yeah, they are.
SCOTT: A fine ship. A credit to her name. But I've always found that a ship is only as good as the engineer who takes care of her, and from what I can see the Enterprise is in good hands.
LAFORGE: You take care of yourself out there.
SCOTT: Aye.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46154.2. The Enterprise has entered the Amargosa Diaspora, an unusually dense globular cluster. We are faced with the daunting task of charting this vast region.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Shipley, let's get a triangulation on these sector points.
SHIPLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Sorry I'm late. I overslept again. What have we got?
LAFORGE: Well, the cluster's a lot more dense than we thought. It's going to take three days just to map out one tenth of it.
RIKER: Three days?
LAFORGE: I think we've found a way to speed that up a bit. We've been testing a way of channeling warp energy directly to the main deflector grid. It should enhance the long range sensors.
DATA: The modification would increase our sensor efficiency and imaging resolution by twenty five percent or more.
RIKER: That sounds like that'll use up a lot of warp energy.
LAFORGE: We'd channel it through the EPS mains on deck four, near Cargo bay four.
RIKER: Okay, let's give it a try.
LAFORGE: Data, let's get those field taps online.
DATA: Commander, I would like to remind you about my poetry reading this afternoon.
RIKER: I wouldn't miss it for the world.
LAFORGE: I can't wait to see what he's come up with.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Then we sat on the sand for some time and observed How the oceans that cover the world were perturbed By the tides from the orbiting moon overhead 'How relaxing the sound of the waves is,' you said. I began to expound upon tidal effects When you asked me to stop, looking somewhat perplexed. So I did not explain why the sunset turns red And we watched the occurrence, in silence, instead.
DATA: That poem was written in anapaestic tetrameter. For my ninth poem,
RIKER: I don't understand. I can barely keep my eyes open.
DATA: Throughout the ages, from Keats to Jorkemo, poets have composed odes to individuals who have had a profound effect on their lives. In keeping with that tradition, I have written my next poem in honor of my cat. I call it Ode to Spot. Felis catus is your taxonomic nomenclature. An endothermic quadruped, carnivorous by nature. Your visual, olfactory, and auditory senses Contribute to your hunting skill and natural defenses. I find myself intrigued by your subvocal oscillations. A singular development of cat communications That obviates your basic hedonistic predilection, For a rhythmic stroking of your fur to demonstrate affection. A tail is quite essential for your acrobatic talents. You would not be so agile if you lacked its counterbalance. And when not being utilized to aid in locomotion It often serves to illustrate the state of your emotions.
DATA: Commander, you have anticipated my denouement. However, the sentiment is appreciated. I will continue. Oh, Spot, the complex levels of behavior you display Connote a fairly well developed cognitive array. And though you are not sentient, Spot, and do not comprehend I nonetheless consider you a true and valued friend.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: I have no problem getting to sleep. Then I think I'm sleeping all night. When I wake up, I feel exhausted.
CRUSHER: How long has this been going on?
RIKER: Two, three days. Do you have to hold that thing that close? I'm sorry. I've been on edge all day.
CRUSHER: Well. other than some muscle tension in your neck, I don't see anything physically wrong with you. Have you been having bad dreams?
RIKER: Not that I can remember.
CRUSHER: This could be the result of lack of REM sleep.
RIKER: What do you recommend?
CRUSHER: Drink this before going to bed.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: A recipe for a warm milk toddy.
RIKER: A hot milk toddy? You're kidding.
CRUSHER: The heat activates amino acids in the lactose, making it a natural sedative. Besides, this is a recipe of the Captain's Aunt Adelle. It's delicious.
RIKER: Well. at this point, I'll try anything.
CRUSHER: And listen, if it still bothers you tomorrow, come and see me and I'll run further tests.
RIKER: Thanks.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Everything's in place. Warp grid couplers, subspace field taps. All right, let's do it. Lieutenant Shipley, initiate warp power transfer.
SHIPLEY: Aye sir. Verifying sensor calibration. EPS mains holding stable. Sensor array online.
LAFORGE: Come on, work.
DATA: Geordi, active scanner output has increased by twenty six percent.
LAFORGE: Inform Astrophysics that the new La Forge sensor array is online and awaiting major scientific discoveries.
SHIPLEY: Yes, sir.
DATA: Geordi, may I make a personal inquiry? It concerns my poetry reading.
LAFORGE: Sure, Data. What is it?
DATA: I noticed that many spectators seemed distracted during my presentation. Was my poetry uninteresting?
LAFORGE: Well, it was very well constructed, a virtual tribute to form.
DATA: Thank you. And?
LAFORGE: And what?
DATA: Did it evoke an emotional response?
LAFORGE: Well.
DATA: Your hesitation suggests you are trying to protect my feelings. However, since I have none, I would prefer you to be honest. An artist's growth depends upon accurate feedback.
LAFORGE: Well, your poems were clever, Data, and your Haiku was clever, and your sonnet was clever. But did it evoke an emotional response? To be honest, no, I don't think so.
DATA: Then I did not succeed in my efforts.
LAFORGE: No, it's not that you didn't succeed. You accomplished a lot, but, if you want to touch people, don't concentrate so much on rhyme and meter. Think more about what you want to say instead of how you're saying it.
LAFORGE: That's the power grid warning.
DATA: I am reading a massive EPS explosion.
LAFORGE: Where?
DATA: I am attempting to localize it. It is Cargo bay four.
LAFORGE: I've got three people in there. Damage control, medical team to Cargo bay four. Let's go.

[Corridor]
DATA: The field imbalance has subsided.
WORF: There may still be a residual discharge. Stand clear.

[Cargo bay]
ENGINEER: Is there something wrong, sir?

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: And there's no evidence of an EPS explosion.
RIKER: Sensors seemed to think there was.
LAFORGE: I think my modification to the sensor array may have caused a pattern recognition failure.
RIKER: Just a sensor glitch?
LAFORGE: That's my guess.
RIKER: Let's perform a level three diagnostic on the internal sensor network and make sure that we haven't overlooked anything.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Could we pick this up in the morning, Geordi? Get a fresh start? Would you do me a favor? Stop by my quarters, oh seven hundred hours. I'm having trouble waking up.
LAFORGE: Sure, Commander. Goodnight.
RIKER: Goodnight.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: Commander.
LAFORGE: Gordon.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Who is it?
LAFORGE (voiceover): It's La Forge.
RIKER: Come in.
LAFORGE: Good morning.
RIKER: Morning? I just went to bed.
LAFORGE: Commander, it's oh seven hundred hours.

[Barber shop]
MOT: She said, if they're not squirming, we won't eat 'em!
MOT: Ah, Mister Worf, my good Klingon. Sir, welcome. What a pleasure it is to have you with us again so soon. So, Lieutenant, haircut today? Trim your beard?
WORF: I would like my hair trimmed.
MOT: Ah. A trim, of course.
WORF: Not like last time.
MOT: Oh no, just a little off the top. I took way too much off last time. I was just telling my colleague, Mister Setti, how thick and luxuriant Klingon hair is. It's such a pleasure to cut. Sometimes I get carried away. All those away missions, the wind and dry air, the elements really are harsh on the hair. I'd like to suggest that you start using a conditioning agent.
MOT: I promise, not too much off the top.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Just before the grid alarm sounded, we were running warp power through this junction. Somehow, it must've tripped the internal scanners.
RIKER: And it showed up as an EPS explosion?
LAFORGE: Yes, but the question is, why? I've made modifications to the sensors before but nothing like this has ever happened.
RIKER: We can't waste time chasing down sensor ghosts. We should probably keep the whole array offline until we can get take a closer look.
LAFORGE: Excuse me.
RIKER: I know the feeling. The past few nights, it seems like as soon as my head hits the pillow, it's time to get up in the morning.
LAFORGE: I'm sure we could all use a little shore leave after this survey's completed.
RIKER: Definitely. Keep me posted?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Data, I'm wondering if you could give me a hand. I need to run a structural integrity scan. I want to make sure that none of the conduit was
DATA: What is it?
LAFORGE: This is the second time today that my visor's just cut out like that.
DATA: Are you all right, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I just had a very weird feeling. Maybe I should go to Sickbay.
DATA: I will run the integrity scan.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is curious. There's a slight bacterial infection around your neural inputs. It was probably interrupting the data stream.
LAFORGE: An infection? From what?
CRUSHER: It doesn't match any bacterial strains on record. I'm going to have to sterilize the area. But I need to run a resonance tissue scan to search for any signs of additional infection. Come over here. Sit down. Now, come forward. Now, you're going to need to hold very still.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: How's the scan going, Data?
DATA: I have just started the scan. Did you not go to Sickbay?
LAFORGE: Data, I've been there for over an hour and a half.
DATA: That is not possible. My internal chronometer indicates you have been gone for exactly one minute, fifteen seconds.
LAFORGE: I'm telling you, Data, I've been gone for over an hour.
DATA: Computer, what is the time, please?
COMPUTER: The time is fourteen twenty seven hours.
DATA: You are correct. Ninety two minutes, seventeen seconds have passed since you left the room.
LAFORGE: What have you been doing all this time?
DATA: I have no memory of events during that period. When we are finished here, I will perform a self-diagnostic.
LAFORGE: You know, first we picked up a false EPS explosion, then my visor cuts out twice, and now you lose an hour, all in the Cargo Bay. La Forge to Engineering I want a diagnostic team to Cargo bay four immediately.
SHIPLEY (voiceover): On our way, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Ensign Rager, cartography needs a better position to study cluster FGC thirteen. Bring us about, heading one twenty three mark four.
RAGER: Aye sir. Helm won't lock to those coordinates, sir.
RIKER: First time navigating through a globular cluster, Ensign? You have got to compensate for gravimetric interference before
RAGER: Is there something wrong, sir?
RIKER: No. I don't know. Put us back on our original heading, Ensign.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Don't tell me. This can't be right. Data, come here and take a look at this, would you? I think we have another sensor glitch.
DATA: Sensors are functioning normally. They are detecting a subspace particle emission originating from within this room.
LAFORGE: From within this room? That's impossible.
DATA: The emission is emanating from this direction. Geordi.
DATA: The structure of the bulkhead has been altered on a subatomic level. The metal itself is in a state of quasi-molecular flux.
PICARD: What's causing it?
LAFORGE: This is where it gets a little wild, Captain. Behind that panel is a junction we were using to transfer warp power to the sensor array. We're reading a subspace particle stream emanating from that junction.
DATA: It appears to be composed of spatially inverted tetryon particles. We believe they are emanating from a tertiary subspace manifold.
PICARD: But I thought that tetryons were unstable in normal space.
LAFORGE: We don't understand it either, sir. Something from that deep in subspace shouldn't be able to exist in our universe. But there it is.
PICARD: Does it pose a danger to the ship?
LAFORGE: Not unless it spreads. If it does, we can beam the bulkhead into space and erect a forcefield in its place.
PICARD: Well, keep that option ready. In the meantime, proceed with the analysis.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: When I sat down at the console, it triggered a response like I had been trapped. I had to get out of there.
TROI: Was it something about the console itself?
RIKER: No. I felt like I was disconnected. Like it was something I had dreamed.
TROI: You're the third person today who's come to me with something like this. An intense emotional response provoked by an object.
RIKER: Did any of them know why they'd the response?
TROI: No, they couldn't explain it any more than you could. You know, at this point I'm not willing to say it's coincidence.
RIKER: Maybe we should all get together.
TROI: Talking about it would help you understand your response. I'm going to find out if anyone else on the ship has had these kind of experiences.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Will, you told me you had an unusual experience when you sat down at the console. Why don't you describe it?
RIKER: It was vague, the way you recall a dream. I remember the sensation of feeling trapped and something about a smooth surface.
WORF: I had a similar response, but to a pair of scissors.
TROI: Have you dreamt about scissors recently?
WORF: I may have. I do not have a distinct memory of it.
LAFORGE: When my visor cut out in the cargo bay, I had a weird feeling too. It was something about a smooth surface. It was smooth and cold, Yeah, it was cold.
KAMINER: Yes, cold.
WORF: It was elevated? A platform.
LAFORGE: Right. Like a bench, or a table
TROI: It seems you've all had a similar experience. Is there anything else you remember besides a table?
RIKER: Maybe there's a way we can all help ourselves to remember more.

[Holodeck]
TROI: Well, you all remember a table, so let's start with that. Computer show me a table.
COMPUTER: There are five thousand forty seven classifications of tables on file. Specify design parameters.
TROI: Can you be more specific about the table? You mentioned it was smooth and cold. Can you remember what shape it was?
KAMINER: Long. It was long.
LAFORGE: Yeah, and it had a rectangular shape.
TROI: Computer, show me a rectangular conference table.
LAFORGE: It's too high. Computer, reduce the height of the table by twenty five percent.
WORF: No, the table was smaller. And it was inclined. Computer, decrease the table's surface area by twenty percent and incline the top fifteen degrees.
RIKER: No, it wasn't made of wood. It was smoother, more metallic.
TROI: Computer, make this a metal table.
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's starting to look right.
TROI: Was there anything else in the room? Furniture? Chairs? A door? Other people?
KAMINER: No, it was dark.
RIKER: Yes, it was dark. I couldn't see beyond the table.
TROI: Computer, lower the surrounding light level.
LAFORGE: There was a light right in my face. A bright light. Computer, give me a bright light right above the table.
COMPUTER: Specify light source.
LAFORGE: I couldn't tell. It was above me. An overhead lamp.
COMPUTER: Estimated distance of light source.
LAFORGE: I don't know. It was at least two or three meters above. Brighter. Brighter.
TROI: You said you were uneasy when you sat down at the conn. position.
RIKER: Yes. I felt trapped by the console. But it wasn't like this. There was something else here.
TROI: A restraint of some kind?
RIKER: Yes, there was a restraint. It was flat and metal. It was made of metal. it came down over my legs. No, no, it was across my chest, right here.
TROI: It was holding you down?
RIKER: Yes, it was part of the table. It was here. It was right here.
TROI: Computer, create a restraining arm attached to the right side of the table, at the mid-point.
TROI: Was it like that?
RIKER: Computer, put controls on the restraining arm. A control panel. Lights.
KAMINER: There was something else there. Over the head of the table. A metal swing arm. Computer, create a metal swing arm, double jointed, total length one meter. Connect it to the head of the table.
WORF: There was something attached to it. A tool of some sort. Scissor-like. Computer, produce a pair of scissors attached to the armature. The handle is wrong. It was not scissors. Computer, make the handle a single grip ten centimeters long, solid metal. Now make one blade longer, curved inward. And give the other blade a jagged edge.
TROI: All right, you were lying on the table. You had a bright light shining in your eyes. Were there any smells in the room? Were there any sounds?
RIKER: Yes. Yes, there was a sound. Computer, there were noises coming from the darkness. Strange, like whispering.
KAMINER: More like clicks. Clicking sounds.
RIKER: Louder. Faster. More of them.
LAFORGE: I've been in this room before.
RIKER: We've all been here before.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Here it is again. Something has caused high levels of serotonin to be produced in Geordi's visual cortex. When I examined him earlier today, I thought it was the result of a bacterial infection, but now I'm finding the same thing in all three. They all have elevated levels of serotonin. It's concentrated in the hippocampus, which suggests that they've been exposed to a neuro-sedative. And that's not all. I have detected minute tetryon particle traces in their subdermal tissues.
PICARD: Tetryons? Like the emissions in the cargo bay.
DATA: I have completed my self diagnostic, and have confirmed that I was not aboard the Enterprise for ninety minutes seventeen seconds yesterday afternoon.
LAFORGE: Are you sure?
DATA: Whenever I am on the ship, the warp field leaves an electromagnetic signal on my internal servo-fluid system. Between the period of twelve fifty four and fourteen twenty six hours that signature is missing.
PICARD: Computer, are there any members of the crew of the Enterprise missing?
COMPUTER: There are two crewmembers unaccounted for.
PICARD: Identify them.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Edward Hagler and Ensign Sariel Rager.
PICARD: When did they leave?
COMPUTER: They have not been present since twenty three thirty two hours.
PICARD: How did they leave?
COMPUTER: Method of departure unknown.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge here, Captain.
PICARD: Raise shields. And I want a level four security alert. I need to know if anyone comes on or off this ship.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, Mister Data. I believe that if we find the source of those tetryon emissions, we'll find the missing crewmembers.
LAFORGE: We're on it, sir.
MEDIC: Doctor Crusher? You'd better take a look at this.
CRUSHER: My God.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: It looks as though your arm has been severed and then reattached.
RIKER: What?
CRUSHER: The skeletal structure in your radius and ulna is offset by point zero two microns. Your arm has been amputated then surgically reattached.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Any progress with the analysis, Lieutenant?
SHIPLEY: Take a look at this.
LAFORGE: Data, the tetryon emissions have intensified. They seem to be focusing in this direction, coalescing here. They're reading as a point of subspace energy.
DATA: It appears to be the beginnings of a spatial rupture.
LAFORGE: The tetryon emissions are modulating in a way that looks like somebody's controlling the energy. You know, the signals from the modifications I made to the sensor array, some of them dig pretty deep into subspace. Maybe they caught somebody's attention.
DATA: At the rate the rupture is expanding, we will soon be in danger of hull breach.
LAFORGE: Maybe we should try surrounding it with a subspace containment field.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Other than the tetryon emissions in cargo bay four, our internal sensors haven't recorded anything unusual in the past three days.
PICARD: Initiate a metallurgical analysis of the ship's hull. Subspace field incursions may have left a trace.
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate that Lieutenant Hagler has returned to the Enterprise. He is in his quarters, deck seven, section nineteen.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Computer, emergency entry, Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Sickbay. Get a plasma infusion unit to deck seven, section nineteen.
CRUSHER: His blood is turning into a liquid polymer.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We've set up a containment field in cargo bay four, but the rupture just keeps expanding. I'd say we've got another five or six hours before it breaches the hull.
PICARD: Can we still beam the affected sections out into space?
DATA: No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic interference. It is impossible to obtain a positive lock on the bulkheads.
PICARD: Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal this rupture?
LAFORGE: We think we can close the rupture by neutralizing the tetryon emissions with a coherent graviton pulse. But we'd have to do that at the source.
RIKER: How do we find the source?
LAFORGE: Good question. The emissions are coming from a tertiary subspace domain, but subspace has an infinite number of domains. It's like a huge honeycomb with an endless number of cells. We need to isolate the exact cell that these emissions are coming from.
PICARD: If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by our modified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryon emissions to their universe?
DATA: Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot track them, sir.
WORF: Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our sensors could track.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, but there's no way to get that device to the source.
RIKER: Yes, there is. Give it to me. They've taken me for the last few nights. If I'm right, the same thing'll happen tonight.
LAFORGE: If you had a homing device, we could track it to your location in subspace. And as soon as they send you back to the ship, we could transmit the graviton pulse and neutralize the tetryon emissions.
TROI: If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned.
RIKER: They're going to take me whether I want to go or not.
PICARD: Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned, Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship, then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse.
RIKER: Understood.
PICARD: Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. A way of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can you develop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have been giving the crew?
CRUSHER: I could give you a neuro-stimulant, but the dosage would have to be rather high to counteract the effects. It could be risky.
RIKER: I'm willing to take that risk.
PICARD: Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This should be enough to ward off their neuro-sedative for about twelve hours.
RIKER: I hope it's enough.
CRUSHER: It's going to have to be. I can't risk giving you a higher dosage.
LAFORGE: I've locked this tricorder into a continuous cycle. That way, it'll keep recording whether you open it or not. Hopefully you can bring back some information about their domain. We've modified a sensor relay emitter to transmit a subspace beacon. When this indicator lights up, it means that we've locked onto your location.
RIKER: Understood.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. Commander Riker has been taken from the Enterprise.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, report.
LAFORGE: I still can't locate the homing signal. We've covered the entire upper subspace energy band. We're extending the scan to adjacent levels.
PICARD: Mister Data, your status?
DATA (voiceover): The rupture has expanded another four point two percent.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Without further reinforcement, containment field integrity will fail in approximately fourteen minutes.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Can you divert more power to the containment field?
LAFORGE: I can try to augment the field with auxiliary power, but it won't be much.
PICARD: Make it so.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, I've located the homing signal. Locking onto it now. It's coming from a subspace energy level of sixteen point two keV.
PICARD: Stand by to initiate the graviton pulse.
SHIPLEY: Graviton emitters at full power, sir. Standing by.
PICARD: Mister Data, how much time?

[Cargo bay]
DATA: At the present rate, containment failure will occur in approximately nine minutes.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Captain, the containment field is beginning to fluctuate. Failure anticipated in

[Engineering]
DATA (voiceover): Three minutes, eleven seconds.
PICARD: We can't afford to wait any longer. Begin the graviton pulse.
LAFORGE: Initiating pulse now.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Data to Engineering. The graviton pulse is having an effect. Tetryon emissions have decreased by nineteen percent.
DATA: Captain, additional subharmonics have appeared. They are reinforcing the tetryon emissions. They appear to be counter-acting the graviton pulse.

[Engineering]
DATA (voiceover): The rupture is beginning to expand again, sir.
LAFORGE: Looks like somebody is fighting back.
PICARD: Can you strengthen the graviton pulse?
LAFORGE: I can try to set up a random frequency shift. If we can keep them from guessing our pulse modulation, they might not be able to compensate.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Tetryon emissions continue to increase. The rupture is still expanding.

[Engineering]
DATA (voiceover): Hull breach is imminent.
LAFORGE: They're reacting faster than we can shift frequencies. Shipley, program the emitters for full spectrum pulse compression. I want to channel all of the graviton energy into a single burst. Let's see if they can handle that.
SHIPLEY: Ready, Commander.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: The rupture is beginning to close, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Recharge the emitters. Let's hit them again. Come on.
SHIPLEY: Ready.

[Engineering]
DATA (voiceover): The rupture is eighty six percent closed.
LAFORGE: We're almost there. One more burst should do it.
SHIPLEY: Emitters recharging.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46191.2. The tetryon emissions in cargo bay four have ceased, and there have been no further indications of alien intrusions. All Enterprise crewmembers are safe and accounted for. But we are still left with some unanswered questions.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Based on the information gathered by Commander Riker's tricorder, we have determined that the molecular structure of the alien life forms is solanogen-based.
LAFORGE: We think that's why they couldn't come through into our space, as easily as they could take us into theirs. They needed to learn how to remodulate their cellular energy states in order to survive in our universe.
DATA: The tricorder readings indicate they created a small pocket of our universe in their laboratory to keep those they abducted alive.
RIKER: Like putting a fish in a bucket of water.
LAFORGE: That's probably what they were trying to do in cargo bay four. Create a pocket of their universe in ours.
PICARD: What can we do to prevent this from happening again?
LAFORGE: It looks like they found us initially by discovering my modified sensor signal. We should warn all Starfleet ships not to make that same mistake.
PICARD: Have we any idea what came through the rupture before we were able to shut it down?
DATA: No sir. We were unable to track it once it left the cargo bay.
LAFORGE: Maybe it was a probe of some kind.
DATA: Possibly they were simply curious. Explorers like ourselves.
RIKER: Ensign Rager and I were lucky to have escaped. Lieutenant Hagler's dead. Whoever it was sent that thing was more than simply curious.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46192.3. We have arrived at Starbase one one two and are loading relief supplies destined for Tagra Four, an ecologically devastated planet in the Argolis Cluster. We have also taken on a rather unusual passenger.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise, Miss Rogers. I'm delighted to have you aboard.
AMANDA: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: And congratulations. I understand that you were selected for this internship out of hundreds of applicants.
AMANDA: Yes, sir. I still can't believe they chose me. There were lots of other people with better records.
CRUSHER: Your transcript is very impressive. She's done honors work in neurobiology, plasma dynamics, and eco-regeneration. I'd say that's pretty well rounded.
AMANDA: That's a nice way of saying that I haven't decided what I'm going to do with my life.
CRUSHER: I've arranged to have you work in all the major departments while you're here, and I'm willing to bet that by the time it's over you'll have a pretty good idea what field you're interested in.
PICARD: Or at least what fields you're not interested in.
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: We're bringing up the rest of the cargo now. We should be ready to leave within the hour.
PICARD: Commander, will you escort Miss Rogers to her quarters? I need to discuss the Tagran's medical needs with Doctor Crusher. And Miss Rogers?
AMANDA: Yes?
PICARD: You've won yourself a rare opportunity. Avail yourself of it.
AMANDA: I will, sir. And thank you.

[Corridor]
RIKER: It'll take a few days before you know where everything is. If you need any help, you just use one of these comm. panels.
AMANDA: We're on deck seven, section four.
RIKER: You're right.
AMANDA: I practically memorized the specs on the way over here.
RIKER: You're a quick study. This is it.

[Amanda's quarters]
AMANDA: Is this for me?
RIKER: It's all yours.
AMANDA: It's so big.
RIKER: For honor students, only the best.
AMANDA: Well, I could've brought my zoo.
RIKER: Your zoo?
AMANDA: That's just what my parents call it. Three dogs isn't that many, is it?
RIKER: It depends how they get along.
AMANDA: I could have a dozen. Mother said enough is enough. I'm sure going to miss 'em.
RIKER: We'll keep you so busy you won't have a chance to. I've got to get going. I have to get back to cargo bay two.
AMANDA: Well, thanks for walking me down.
RIKER: Sure.
AMANDA: Oh, no. Oh, no, no, no, no. I didn't mean it.
AMANDA: You guys can't stay here. Come on, all of you.
AMANDA: Hello. Come here, little one. You too. Come on, come on.

[Medical lab]
CRUSHER: See all these readouts? That's your heart rate, your blood pressure all your vital signs. You're in good shape. You might just live to be my age.
CRUSHER: Now, all these tricorders need to be tested before they get put in the supply containers that we're taking to Tagra.
AMANDA: So I should scan myself with each one to make sure all the readouts are working?
CRUSHER: Any unit that doesn't, put it aside and we'll do a diagnostic on it later.
AMANDA: Okay.
CRUSHER: I hear you've been accepted to the Academy. I have a son there.
AMANDA: Oh. Being posted on the Enterprise, I guess you don't get to see him very often?
CRUSHER: No, not as often as I'd like.
AMANDA: Do you have any other children?
CRUSHER: My husband died a number of years ago. Wes was our only child.
AMANDA: Was he old enough to know his father?
CRUSHER: Jack died when he was five.
AMANDA: My parents died when I was a baby too. I don't remember anything about them. Sometimes I wonder what they were like.
CRUSHER: Your adoptive parents are in Starfleet, aren't they?
AMANDA: Yeah, they're marine biologists. They've just been posted to the Bilaren system.
MEDIC (voiceover): Sickbay to Doctor Crusher. You wanted to be told when the cultures were ready.
CRUSHER: On my way. When you've finished with the tricorders, Nurse Ogawa can help you take them down to shuttlebay for loading.
AMANDA: Okay.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: Oh, thank you very much for your help. We can use every available hand we can get. This is one of the largest relief efforts we've ever mounted.
AMANDA: Now why are you bringing everything down in shuttlecraft?
LAFORGE: Well, because we can't use the transporters for all of the ionization in the Tagran atmosphere.
AMANDA: From the barystatic filters?
LAFORGE: How did you know that?
AMANDA: I did a paper on eco-regeneration.
LAFORGE: Well then, you know that a thousand barystatic filters puts out quite a bit of ionization.
AMANDA: A thousand?
LAFORGE: Yeah, they've managed to pollute their atmosphere pretty badly.
AMANDA: It's amazing to think that they go to such lengths to clean the air instead of regulating the emissions that cause the problem.
LAFORGE: You're right. Actually, the only thing the filters can do is keep things from getting worse.
LAFORGE: They shoot the air full of
LAFORGE: Commander, are you all right? You okay?
RIKER: I didn't even see it coming.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: this is the main control area. We can access any of the primary circuits from all of these panels. Over here is a Jeffries tube.
AMANDA: Where most of the major conduits are routed.
LAFORGE: You've been doing your homework.
AMANDA: It's hard to imagine how much energy is being harnessed in there.
DATA: Imagination is not necessary. The scale is readily quantifiable. We are presently generating twelve point seven five billion gigawatts per
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has increased by forty seven percent.
LAFORGE: Injector couplings are frozen. I can't slow down the reaction.
DATA: Temperature increase is at one hundred six percent and rising.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge! We're looking at a core breach! We're going to have to try and vent the plasma!
DATA: Plasma inductors are not responding.
LAFORGE: We're going to lose containment. All right, everybody out of here now. Let's go! Let's move it! Data, bring down the isolation door. We're going to have to eject the warp core.
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has returned to normal.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: She's a little shaken up, but she's going to be.
RIKER: You said she was adopted. Could she be an alien?
CRUSHER: She's human. There's nothing more unusual about her, not that my instruments can detect.
PICARD: Commander, have you been able to determine the cause of the warp breach?
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everything was normal and then suddenly it's like the laws of physics went right out the window.
Q: And why shouldn't they? They're so inconvenient.
PICARD: Q!
Q: Mon Capitane.
PICARD: Are you responsible for the incident in Engineering?
Q: Of course. I needed to find out if what I suspected about the girl were true.
PICARD: That being?
Q: That she's Q.
TROI: Amanda's a Q?
CRUSHER: How is that possible? Her parents, her biological parents, were human.
Q: Well, not exactly. They had assumed human form in order to visit Earth, I suppose for amusement. But in vulgar human fashion they proceeded to conceive a child. And then like mawkish humans, they became attached to it. What is it about those squirming little infants that you find so appealing?
CRUSHER: I'm sure that's beyond your comprehension, Q.
Q: I desperately hope so.
TROI: What happened to Amanda's parents?
Q: They died in an accident. None of us knew whether she had inherited the capacities of the Q, but recently they've began to emerge, and as an expert in humanity, I was sent to investigate.
RIKER: You, an expert in humanity?
Q: Not a very challenging field of study, I grant you.
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you created a core breach just to test this girl?
TROI: What would have happened if she couldn't stop it?
Q: Then I would've known she wasn't a Q.
CRUSHER: And now that you know, what do you intend to do?
Q: Instruct here. If that child does not learn how to control her power, she may accidently destroy herself. Or all of you. Or perhaps your entire galaxy.
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you're here to do us a favor.
Q: You're quite right I wouldn't. But there are those in the Continuum who have an over-exaggerated sense of responsibility. They think that we need to take precautions to keep the little dear from running amuck.
CRUSHER: And once you've taught her, then you'll go away?
Q: And leave her here? Of course not. She'll come back to the Continuum, where she belongs.
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. You can't just come in here and take her away from everything she's ever known.
Q: I assure you I can.
CRUSHER: She has plans for herself. She wants to have a career and a family.
Q: I'm rescuing her from that miserable existence.
CRUSHER: That miserable existence is all she's known for the last eighteen years. You have no right to take it away from her.
Q: Mon Capitane, I really think that we need to speak privately.

[Ready room]
Q: Well, there, that's better. Crusher gets more shrill with each passing year.
PICARD: Q, what is it you really want?
Q: Well, since you know so much about the Q, I thought you'd the perfect person to introduce me to the child. Let her know she can trust me.
PICARD: I don't trust you, Q. Why should I expect Amanda to?
Q: Well she'd better, because I'm all she's got. She needs me to help her prepare for her future with the Q.
PICARD: But what if she doesn't want that future? It must be her decision.
Q: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Do you think she'll want to remain an enfeebled mortal?
PICARD: But if she really is Q, she must understand what that means. Very well, I will introduce you. But we cannot argue like this in front of her. We must at least appear to be
Q: Pals?
PICARD: Civil.
Q: I knew I could count on you, Jean-Luc.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to access any available records on Amanda Rogers.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: I want to know about her biological parents, about their death. I find it odd that any Q could die in an accident.
DATA: It is not consistent with what we know of them, sir.
PICARD: I'm convinced that Q isn't telling us everything. See what you can find out.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Amanda's quarters]
AMANDA: It started happening about six months ago. Things that I would wish for would just suddenly appear. I thought I was going crazy. In a funny way, finding this out is kind of a relief.
CRUSHER: I can understand that. This person I mentioned, from the Q Continuum, would like to meet you. If it's all right with you.
AMANDA: I'm ready.
CRUSHER: Good.
Q: There's my girl!
PICARD: Amanda, allow me to introduce, er, Q. He's er, he's an acquaintance of ours. We've er, we've known him for years.
Q: Very impressive the way you contained that explosion. What else have you done?
AMANDA: I don't understand.
Q: Telekinesis? Teleportation? Spontaneous combustion of someone you didn't like? That sort of thing.
PICARD: Amanda, what Q is asking is have you ever deliberately used your abilities?
AMANDA: Not until I came here. The first time it happened was when the container almost fell on Commander Riker.
Q: And you handled that very well. That's why I gave you a greater challenge. The warp core breach.
Q: She has potential, this one. I see no reason why she can't come back to the Continuum right now.
AMANDA: What?
PICARD: Q
AMANDA: I don't want to go anywhere.
Q: Don't worry. With time you'll overcome the disadvantages you suffered as a child. No one will hold it against you for having been human. Let's go.
AMANDA: Leave me alone! I'm not going anywhere with you!

[Ready room]
PICARD: You agreed that she has a right to choose her own future. The first chance you get you try to abduct her.
Q: You're overreacting as usual, Picard. I was merely testing her power. She's quite a little spitfire, now isn't she?
PICARD: What's going on, Q? What's your real purpose here?
Q: I think I've been perfectly clear. The Continuum has a vested interest in this young woman.
PICARD: If you wish to protect that investment, I suggest that you approach her differently.
Q: She was being impetuous. She'll just have to start behaving like a Q.
PICARD: If I'm not mistaken, she just did.

[Amanda's quarters]
AMANDA: You understand, don't you? It's just that I have these things that I want to do. I'm going to the Academy. I want a career, and I want to join Starfleet.
CRUSHER: You can still do those things.
AMANDA: It just seems so complicated now. These powers that I have are just going to stand in the way. I don't want to have to deal with it.
CRUSHER: Well, you're going to have to. Listen, I can only imagine how you feel. And it would be easier if this had never happened or if it would just go away. But it's not going to go away. And you need someone to help you. And the person who can help you is Q.
AMANDA: He's so horrible.
CRUSHER: He is the only one who can help you to understand who you are. Amanda, you are going to have to make some hard choices about your future, and you can't make them if you're going to ignore the truth.
AMANDA: Yeah. I know. But I don't want any of this to disrupt my time here. I want to do everything that I'm expected to do, and I don't want you to treat me any differently. Please?
CRUSHER: You've got a deal. The first free hour you have, I want to see you in the medical lab. I have an experiment I need help with.
AMANDA: Yes, ma'am.

[Corridor]
Q (voiceover): Your progress, Q?
Q: As anticipated, there are some problems. I need time. However, there is a possibility we won't have to terminate her.

[Amanda's quarters]
AMANDA: Come in.
Q: Hello, my dear. I've been told I behaved badly. I apologize. Apparently you had every reason to chastise me. But, then again, what's done is done. Right?
AMANDA: I'd like to ask you some questions.
Q: Anything.
AMANDA: What exactly are the Q?
Q: It would be so much easier to show you than to tell you. If you would agree to take a short visit to the Continuum
AMANDA: No, just tell me.
Q: Well. to put it simply, we're omnipotent. There's nothing, nothing we can't do.
AMANDA: And what do you do with this power?
Q: Anything we want.
AMANDA: Do you use it to help others?
Q: I think you've missed the point, my dear. Clearly, you've spent far too much time with humans. As a Q, you can have your heart's desire, instantly, whatever that may be. Would you like precious jewels? Works of art? Would you like to walk along the rings of Tautine?
AMANDA: I'm not interested in any of those things.
Q: Of course not. You're a Q. But surely there must be something that you want? Something that you never dreamed was possible. Tell me, Amanda. What is it?
AMANDA: I'd like to know what my parents looked like. My real parents.
Q: How quaint. So do it.
AMANDA: What do you mean?
Q: Summon the image.
AMANDA: I don't know how.
Q: Think about them. Evoke the memory. You can do it, Amanda. Trust me. Close your eyes. Close your eyes. In your mind, return to the time when you were an infant. Think about your parents. Remember them. Good. Good. Now, open your eyes.
AMANDA: They loved me.

[Medical lab]
AMANDA: Wait for it to be metabolized. Add another twenty? Wait for it to be metabolized over and over, and then wait till the bacilli can't be absorbed any more.
CRUSHER: That's right. Just be sure and record the rate of mitosis from each of the dishes.
AMANDA: Mitosis, right.
CRUSHER: You seem distracted.
AMANDA: Well, I just saw my parents. My real parents. Q showed me how. Can you imagine how that felt?
CRUSHER: No, I don't think I can.
AMANDA: You know, you were right. I can't ignore what's happened to me. I just don't know if I can cope with it.
CRUSHER: Amanda, you are stronger than you think.
AMANDA: You know, when I saw them there, right in front of me, I realized that I caused this to happen. I wanted to see them and I did. If it were you, if suddenly you could have anything you wanted, what would it be?
CRUSHER: I have no idea.
AMANDA: No, think about it. Really think. If suddenly you could make anything happen, what would it be?
CRUSHER: Well, I would probably want to heal people. People who are hopelessly ill.
AMANDA: Would you bring your husband back?
CRUSHER: Amanda, I don't know. And I don't think I could make a decision like that until I was actually faced with it.
AMANDA: I am faced with it.
CRUSHER: Try to do the work. I'll come back and check on you later.
Q: I thought she'd never leave.
AMANDA: I don't know if I'll ever get used to that.
Q: It's time for another lesson.
AMANDA: Well, I have to finish this experiment first.
Q: What are you doing?
AMANDA: We're delivering live vaccine bacilli to Tagra. I'm supposed to find the best nutrient solution so we can keep them living while they're in stasis.
Q: Fascinating. I've just had a splendid idea. Why don't we combine what you're doing with our lesson, and we'll show you how to finish in no time.
AMANDA: Well, I think that I should finish it the way Doctor Crusher showed me.
Q: Why? I'm sure she'll be delighted if we sped things along. Think what it would mean. You could double, even triple the work load.
AMANDA: Well.
Q: Good.
AMANDA: I guess so.
Q: Now, as you take a look at the tissue samples, form an image in your mind.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One Doctor Crusher has some live vaccine bacilli to be delivered to Tagra. It'll have to be shipped in a stasis field. Will you make the arrangements?
RIKER: I'll get right on it.
DATA: Captain, message coming in from Tagra Four.
PICARD: On screen.
LOTE (screen): Enterprise, I am Orn Lote, engineer. We are having difficulties with the reactor that powers the barystatic filters on our southern continent. We may have to shut it down for repairs.
PICARD: Perhaps my Chief Engineer could be of assistance?
LOTE (screen): I hope so. If we are forced to disable the reactor, it would take months to re-establish the ionic currents the filters have formed in the atmosphere.
PICARD: Send us your design specifications I'm sure we'll be able to help.
LOTE (screen): Thank you, Captain.
DATA: Captain?
PICARD: What is it, Mister Data?
DATA: I have some information regarding Amanda Rogers' parents. Records indicate that they died in Topeka, Kansas. Their home was destroyed during a tornado.
PICARD: A tornado? Why wasn't it dissipated by the weather modification net?
DATA: Unknown, sir. The bodies were found in the rubble after the storm had passed.
PICARD: See if you can find out any more details, Mister Data. I'd like to know more about that storm.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]
Q: Well, if it isn't Number Two.
RIKER: I was looking for Doctor Crusher. I didn't know what nutrients she wanted to send with the bacilli.
AMANDA: I'm not sure. I'll tell her to contact you.
RIKER: Thanks.
AMANDA: You could stay here and wait for her, if you, you know, wanted to.
RIKER: Just tell her I'll be in shuttlebay two.
Q: You're attracted to him.
AMANDA: I am not.
Q: I think you are. How repulsive. How do you stand that hair all over his face?
AMANDA: Doctor, Commander Riker was just here looking for you. He said he'd be in Shuttlebay Two.
CRUSHER: Thank you. Have you finished already?
AMANDA: Yes.
CRUSHER: How did you do it so quickly?
AMANDA: Q helped me. It took us about half the time that it would have normally taken us.
CRUSHER: That explains this data. I needed to know the rates of mitosis. By artificially inflating them you made the experiment useless. Now I have to do it all over again.
AMANDA: I'm sorry, Doctor.
Q: Don't be sorry. If she wants to make things difficult on herself, that's her business.
CRUSHER: Why did you interfere with what she was doing?
Q: She's a Q. Making her plod through human chores is beneath her.
CRUSHER: She has asked not to be treated differently.
Q: That doesn't mean she should be bored to death.
CRUSHER: I don't interfere with what you're teaching her.
Q: You wouldn't be capable of interfering.
CRUSHER: I don't think it's too much to ask for you to do the same.
CRUSHER: And you stay out of mine.
Q: Well, when you put it like that, I think you're absolutely right.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: I have further information regarding the tornado that killed Amanda Rogers' parents.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: It was unusually compact, yet extremely powerful. Its recorded wind velocity was characteristic of a funnel three times its size.
PICARD: Download the files to my Ready room. I'll study them there.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Amanda's quarters]
Q: Have you been practicing your teleportation?
AMANDA: Yes. But it's kind of hard. I keep ending up somewhere I don't want to be.
Q: Well, it won't do to be sloppy. You should hone your abilities. I have a wonderful idea. Why don't we play a little game? I'll hide somewhere on the ship and you find me.
AMANDA: But how do I know how?
Q (voiceover): Don't worry, Amanda. You can do it.

[Shuttlebay two]
Q: Not bad. Not bad at all.

[Engineering]
DATA: If we can use phase buffers we may be able to devise a mechanism that can be integrated into the present system while it is in operation.
Q: You're still thinking like a human.

[Amanda's quarters]
Q: Now do you understand? What do humans have to offer you that even begins to compare with that? Your future contains wonders you can't even imagine. The universe could be your playground.
AMANDA: Doctor Crusher and Counselor Troi. They're taking me to dinner.
Q: You don't have to eat, you know. It's a nasty human habit you could easily do without.
CRUSHER: Hello, Amanda. Are you ready?
AMANDA: Yes.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Well, Amanda, how are you feeling about all this now? It must be overwhelming.
AMANDA: It was at first, but actually now I'm enjoying myself.
RIKER: Hello, ladies.
TROI: Hello, Will.
AMANDA: Commander Riker. Er, won't you join us?
RIKER: I'd love, to but I have other plans.
RIKER: Hi.
WOMAN: Hi.
CRUSHER: So, how are your lessons going? Is Q being patient with you? Amanda?

[Gazebo]
RIKER: What is this all about?
AMANDA: I thought it might be nice to spend some time alone together.
RIKER: I think it would be nice if you took us back to Ten Forward.
AMANDA: Are you sure you wouldn't want to stay here with me for a while? The moonlight is so beautiful. Isn't it nicer here than at Ten Forward?
RIKER: Yes, it's very pleasant, but that's not the point.
AMANDA: Oh? I think it is.
RIKER: No. You can't just snatch people and put them in your fantasies and expect them to respond.
AMANDA: Don't you like me? Even just a little bit?
RIKER: You're a very lovely young lady. But none of this is real.
AMANDA: My feelings are real.
RIKER: I know. But you can't make someone love you.
AMANDA: Can't I?
RIKER: Oh, Amanda. You are so beautiful.
AMANDA: Do you love me?
RIKER: More than anything.
AMANDA: You're right. None of this is real. I thought it would be romantic, but it's empty.
RIKER: Amanda.
AMANDA: Just go back to Ten Forward.

[Ready room]
Q: Bon jour, mon Capitane. You wanted to talk with me?
PICARD: I wanted to ask you about Amanda's biological parents. When they decided to remain on Earth, what was the reaction in the Q Continuum?
Q: We found it incomprehensible.
PICARD: Were they pressured to return? Were they threatened with any punishment if they didn't?
Q: What are you driving at, Picard?
PICARD: Well, the circumstance of their death's quite odd. A tornado somehow escaped the weather modification net and touched down in only one spot. Amanda's home.
Q: Well, you never can predict the weather.
PICARD: But tornadoes develop from existing storm fronts. But you see, there were no storm fronts in Kansas that day. Witnesses reported that the funnel materialized spontaneously directly over Amanda's home, destroyed it, and disappeared.
Q: If you say so. I wasn't there.
PICARD: Were Amanda's parents executed by the Q Continuum?
Q: And what if they were?
PICARD: Then I think she has a right to know that before she makes a choice about her future.
Q: Don't be foolish, Picard. She has no choice. She never did. If she's truly Q, then she must return to the Continuum where she belongs. But if she were some kind of hybrid, neither human nor Q, then
PICARD: You would be so despicable?
Q: Don't be naive. You have no idea what it means to be Q. With unlimited power comes responsibility. Do you think it is reasonable for us to allow omnipotent beings to roam free through the universe?
PICARD: So what have you concluded? Does she live or does she die?
Q: I haven't decided yet.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46193.8. We have arrived at Tagra Four and have begun delivering supplies. In the meantime, I am faced with a crisis of a different nature.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Look, I have no reason to believe that Q is lying. He claims he has orders from the Continuum. If Amanda cannot prove that she is fully Q, then he must kill her.
TROI: We have to tell her.
CRUSHER: I don't know if we should. It almost seems cruel.
TROI: Maybe she can protect herself. After all, she has a great deal of power.
CRUSHER: So did her parents. It didn't save them.
PICARD: I agree with the Counselor. Amanda deserves to know the truth of her situation. We have no right to withhold such crucial information from her. But it isn't going to be easy telling her.

[Shuttlebay two]
RIKER: What's your impression of the field modulator, Mister Lote?
LOTE: Quite ingenious. Quite ingenious, indeed. I'm amazed at the way it can be incorporated with the existing system.
LAFORGE: Commander, we're all loaded here. We can head for the surface whenever you're ready.
LOTE: I'm eager to see the field modulator in place, Commander.
RIKER: We'd better get going.
LOTE: Yes.

[Ready room]
AMANDA: Kill me? But why?
PICARD: They're not convinced that you are fully Q. And they are also responsible for your parent's death.
AMANDA: My parents? But what right do they have? Q? Answer me. Are you afraid to face me?
Q: She's such a plucky little thing, now, isn't she. I really do enjoy you, you know.
PICARD: Amanda's question deserves an answer, Q. You've made yourself judge, jury, and if necessary executioner. By what right have you appointed yourself to this position?
Q: Superior morality.
PICARD: Yes. I recall how you used your superior morality when we first encountered you. You put us on trial for the crimes of humanity.
Q: The jury is still out on that, Picard, make no mistake.
PICARD: Your arrogant pretense at being the moral guardians of the universe strikes me as being hollow, Q. I see no evidence that you are guided by a superior moral code, or any code whatsoever. You may be nearly omnipotent, and I don't deny that your parlor tricks are very impressive, but morality? I don't see it. I don't acknowledge it, Q. I would put human morality against the Q's any day. And perhaps that's the reason that we fascinate you so. Because our puny behavior shows you a glimmer of the one thing that evades your omnipotence, a moral center. And if so, I can think of no crueler irony than that you should destroy this young woman, whose only crime is that she's too human.
Q: Jean-Luc, sometimes I think the only reason I come here is to listen to these wonderful speeches of yours. But this time, your concern is unwarranted. We've decided not to harm her. And we're prepared to offer her a choice.
AMANDA: What kind of choice?
Q: You can either come to the Continuum with me
AMANDA: Or?
Q: Now this choice is more difficult. You have it within yourself the ability to refrain from using the power of Q. If you can do that, you can stay here.
AMANDA: Then I'm staying here.
Q: Think about this. This is not so easy. Your parents were given this choice and they were unable to resist the temptation of using their power.
AMANDA: All I've wanted since this whole thing began is to become a normal human being again. I know I can resist.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Picard. There is an emergency message from Commander Riker.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER (screen): Captain, the damage to the reactor is greater than the Tagrans led us to believe. The field modulator is installed and operational, but it's not going to be enough. The reactor has already gone into overload.
PICARD: Can you correct the problem?
RIKER (screen): Geordi is trying to stabilize the unit now. We will stay as long as possible. There are thousands of people in the area. If that reactor goes.
LOTE (screen): Commander. Over here, quickly.
PICARD: Is this your doing, Q?
Q: Not this time, Picard.
PICARD: Mister Worf, see if there's any way we can do to cut through the interference and beam them out of there.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER (screen): Captain, Geordi is trying a neutrino infusion. It may smother the reaction.
WORF: Captain, there is too much ionization in the atmosphere. Transporters are useless.
LAFORGE (screen): It's no use. The heat has fused the injectors shut. We're losing containment.
RIKER (screen): How long till meltdown?
LAFORGE (screen): A few minutes at most. Going to have to
LOTE (screen): Commander! Look at this.
LAFORGE (screen): This is impossible. Captain, I don't know what's happening, but the reaction is stabilizing on its own.
DATA: Captain, I am reading a massive energy fluctuation in the planet's atmosphere.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Atmospheric contaminants have dropped to less than one part per trillion. The ecozystem has been restored to its natural state.
PICARD: Amanda?
Q: I told you it would be harder to resist than you thought.
AMANDA: I couldn't let all those people die
AMANDA: Ever since I got here, I've been fighting this. I've been denying the truth. Denying what I am. I am Q. Doctor Crusher, I've decided that I can't stay. I can't stay here.
Q: Well, now that you've come to your senses, let's go.
AMANDA: No. I want to go and see my parents first. It's going to take some time to explain all this, so you'll have to be patient.
AMANDA: I hope I can come back and see you.
CRUSHER: You're a Q. You can do anything you want.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46235.7 Ensign Ro, Keiko O'Brien, Guinan and I are returning to the Enterprise after a fascinating visit to the planet Marlonia.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: And I found these pieces in the tertiary level of the dig. They're typical of second century Marlonian cookware. Look at those markings. They're very similar to early Taguan designs, but the patterns are more intricate, they're much closer to Buranian than Taguan.
GUINAN: You were on the most beautiful planet in the quadrant and you spent your entire shore leave in a cave?
PICARD: It was a very rewarding experience. Look at these fragments. They're very nearly in perfect condition and yet they're seven hundred years old.
GUINAN: So's my father.
RO: Is that a Draebidium froctus?
KEIKO: Actually, it's a Draebidium calimus. You can tell by the shape of the leaves. I didn't know you were interested in plant biology.
RO: I took a class at the Academy. I Don't remember very much though.
WORF (voiceover): Enterprise to shuttlecraft Fermi.
RO: This is the Fermi. Go ahead Enterprise.
WORF (voiceover): We have just received a distress signal from the Starfleet science team on Ligos Seven.
PICARD: Can you identify the problem?
WORF (voiceover): No, sir. The call was cut off in mid-transmission.
PICARD: Lay in a course and prepare to engage at warp eight as soon as we're on board.
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RO: We'll rendezvous with the ship in three minutes, sir.
RO: We're caught in some kind of energy field.
PICARD: Hard about, full impulse.
RO: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What's happening, Mister Worf?
WORF: The shuttle has been enveloped by an energy field. It's engines and life support have failed.
RIKER: Increase to full impulse. Bridge to Transporter room three. Prepare to beam the shuttle crew back once we're in range.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Ready, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
RO: I can't contact the Enterprise. There's too much interference.
PICARD: Transfer auxiliary power to the inertial dampers.
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural failure imminent.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Have you got them, O'Brien?
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I'm trying, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I can't get a pattern lock.
RIKER (voiceover): The shuttle is

[Bridge]
RIKER: Coming apart, Chief. We've got to do it now.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got them. There's a forty percent drop in mass.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN (voiceover): I may have lost one of them.

[Transporter room]
PICARD JR: Thank you, Mister O'Brien. Another moment and

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: According to the bioscans, their DNA structure is now consistent with those of preadolescence. But as far as we can tell, only their bodies were changed.
TROI: Their individual intelligence and their behavioral responses are exactly the same as they were before the accident.
PICARD JR: What happened to the shuttlecraft, Number One?
RIKER: The shuttle broke up just after we beamed you out. Mister Data is coordinating the salvage efforts now. Sir.
CRUSHER: What about the energy field the shuttle passed through?
RIKER: We've trying to scan it, but it's we're running into lot of interference. It's going to take some time.
PICARD JR: We can't afford to stay here any longer. We'll leave a class four probe behind to study the energy field but the distress signal from Ligos Seven has top priority. Let me know as soon as you have any further information, Doctor. Number One, you're with me.
CRUSHER: Captain, I need to run some additional tests.
PICARD JR: Of course. The three of you will remain as needed to assist Doctor Crusher.
RO JR: What?
GUINAN JR: You know, you make a pretty cute kid.
RO JR: Great. Just what I want to be. Cute.
GUINAN JR: Were you this much fun when you were a kid?
RO JR: I was in a refugee camp. Fun wasn't exactly in my vocabulary.
GUINAN JR: What about now? You're not in that camp anymore.
RO JR: Fun is being back at work in my own uniform.

[Turbolift]
PICARD JR: Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD JR: Mister Worf. Prepare to launch a class four probe to study the energy field.
PICARD JR: I realize how unusual this must seem. My appearance is the result of an accident, involving myself and three other crew members, the effects of which Doctor Crusher is currently working to remedy. I assure you I am Captain Picard.
WORF: The probe. Aye, sir.
PICARD JR: Mister Data, have you secured all of the shuttle debris?
DATA: Almost. It is being stored in shuttlebay two. Sir.
PICARD JR: Very well. Ensign, as soon as Mister Data is finished take us to Ligos at warp eight.
CRUSHER: Captain, may I see you privately for a few moments?
PICARD JR: Of course.

[Ready room]
PICARD JR: Tea. Earl Gray. Hot. Have you been able to determine the cause of our transformation?
CRUSHER: Not yet. I'm still waiting for some test results.
PICARD JR: I see. There are one hundred and three members of the science team on Ligos Seven. We should prepare shuttlebay three for a triage center in case they have large numbers of casualties.
CRUSHER: We'll be ready.
PICARD JR: I see that Ligos Seven is prone to periodic volcanic activity. Perhaps the planet has entered an active phase.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. We need to talk.
PICARD JR: All right. Let's talk. Are you here to relieve me of duty?
CRUSHER: I'd rather not have to take that step.
PICARD JR: I am still Jean-Luc Picard. My judgment, my experiences, my mental capacities are all intact.
CRUSHER: That's true, for now. But this could be the first stage of a condition that may begin to affect your mind as well.
PICARD JR: But you see no evidence of that.
CRUSHER: Not yet. What I do know is that the Captain of this ship has undergone an extreme physical transformation, the ultimate effects of which I can't even begin to guess.
PICARD JR: You are asking me to step down.
CRUSHER: You are still Jean-Luc Picard. What do you think you should do?

[Bridge]
PICARD JR: Commander Riker, please take command of the ship until further notice.
RIKER: Understood.

[Corridor]
RO JR: So what the hell am I supposed to do now?
GUINAN JR: You're not supposed to do anything. That's what relieved of duty means.
RO JR: Well, I should be doing something instead of just standing around waiting for them to find a cure.
GUINAN JR: You're right. Let's go play.
RO JR: What?
GUINAN JR: I haven't been young for a long time and I intend to enjoy every minute of it.
RO JR: Fine. Enjoy yourself.
GUINAN JR: What are you going to do? Go back to your room and pout?
RO JR: I am not twelve years old. If I want to go to my quarters and contemplate my situation, that does not mean that I am pouting.
GUINAN JR: Okay, okay.

[O'Brien quarters]
O'BRIEN: I could use a cup of coffee. How about you?
KEIKO JR: I'll get it. Two coffees. One with cream and sugar, the other
O'BRIEN: Black, double sweet
KEIKO JR: I know. One double sweet.
O'BRIEN: Careful, that's hot.
KEIKO JR: Miles.
O'BRIEN: Sorry.
KEIKO JR: What's wrong?
O'BRIEN: It's. I don't know, but this feels wrong somehow.
KEIKO JR: Miles Edward O'Brien, I am still your wife.
O'BRIEN: Well technically, yes.
KEIKO JR: Technically?
O'BRIEN: No. I mean, of course you're my wife. But you're also ten years old.
KEIKO JR: Beverly said it's actually closer to twelve.
O'BRIEN: That's not the point.
KEIKO JR: So what is the point? Is our marriage over?
O'BRIEN: I didn't say that. But until they find a way to reverse this, this effect, it's going hard for me to ignore the fact that you're a little girl.
KEIKO JR: What if they can't find a way? What if I'm like this the rest of my life? What does that mean for us, for our family?
MOLLY (voiceover): Mommy? Mommy.

[Molly's bedroom]
O'BRIEN: What's wrong, Sweetheart?
MOLLY: I want Mommy to read me a story.
KEIKO JR: All right. What story would you like to hear?
MOLLY: Not you. I want Mommy.
O'BRIEN: What if Daddy reads you a story tonight? Will that be okay? I'll be right back.

[O'Brien quarters]
O'BRIEN: Keiko. It's going to be all right. I promise. We'll work this out.
KEIKO JR: How?
O'BRIEN: I don't know. First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has reached the Ligos system, and we have begun to search for the missing Federation science team. Doctor Crusher reports no progress on a cure for the members of the shuttle crew.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD JR: Come.
TROI: I came to see how you're doing.
PICARD JR: I'll have to speak to my tailor, but otherwise I'm well, thank you. It's just so ridiculous. I can't really take myself seriously like this. Counselor, if Doctor Crusher can't find a cure, if I have to stay this way, nobody's going to take me seriously, are they?
TROI: I would say the people that know you and have worked with you, will be able to make the adjustment eventually. But there are some people who would find it difficult to accept a twelve year old captain.
PICARD JR: In that case, I suppose I'll just have to wait until I grow up again before I get another command. Which might be in ten, maybe fifteen years. The question is what to do until then?
TROI: You're still a Starfleet captain. I'm sure there are other assignments you could be given in the interim.
PICARD JR: I've spent thirty years of my life aboard starships I'm not about to sit behind a desk now.
TROI: You could return to the Academy. Take another degree. Brush up on your Latin.
PICARD JR: And be Wesley Crusher's room mate? I will admit that returning to the Academy does have a certain appeal, but I've spent my life looking forward. Going to the Academy again feels like looking backward.
TROI: Then perhaps you could spend the time exploring another interests. Archeology, for instance.
PICARD JR: Leave Starfleet?
TROI: Not permanently, just a sabbatical. You could spend a few years crawling through caves and digging up artifacts, and still have enough time to become the youngest admiral in Starfleet history.
PICARD JR: It would give me a chance to take up Doctor Langford's offer and accompany her to the ruins on Suvin Four. But to leave the Enterprise.
TROI: In a way, you're very lucky. You might have a chance do what most people can only dream about. Have a second childhood without the pain of growing up again.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is Captain Picard's rybo-viroxic-nucleic structure from a tissue sample I took this morning. It's the same as a sample I took before the accident, except it's missing several of the key viroxic sequences.
RIKER: It's been a long time since I took genetics, Doctor.
CRUSHER: RVN is one of the key factors in our development during puberty. Unlike DNA, which never changes, RVN takes on some additional viroxic sequences during adolescence. Those sequences determine how we develop physically.
RIKER: Without them we would never mature into adults.
CRUSHER: Exactly. Somehow, those sequences were eliminated in the Captain and the others during transport.
RIKER: So what do we do?
CRUSHER: Well, we have a couple of options. These are the plants Keiko was carrying on the shuttle. Whatever turned the crew into children turned these plants into seedlings. I accelerated the growth on one of them, and it developed into a perfectly normal adult plant.
RIKER: I don't suppose that would work with people?
CRUSHER: No, but at least we know that if we do nothing at all, they will probably grow up just as they did before.
RIKER: That's one option.
CRUSHER: However, I do have the adult RVN patterns of all four of them. I might be able to send them back through the transporter pattern buffer and replace the missing sequences. But we can't even attempt that until we know why this happened in the first place. If somehow they were to lose more viroxic sequences.
RIKER: They would get even younger.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: Chief, I got the sensor report on the shuttle break-up. It looks like the break-up began near the starboard bulkhead.
O'BRIEN: There're some bulkhead fragments over here.
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up some torsional stress damage, some micro-fractures. Hang on a second. What's this?
O'BRIEN: It looks like tritanium from the hull.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but look.
LAFORGE: That's not tritanium anymore. Somehow the molecular structure of this alloy's been changed, broken down into its constituent elements.
O'BRIEN: No wonder the bulkhead shattered.
LAFORGE: Yeah. I want to get a sample of this down to Engineering and run a metallurgical analysis.

[Ro's quarters]
GUINAN JR: Well, this is exciting.
RO JR: Would you rather be playing with dolls?
GUINAN JR: I'd rather be doing almost anything other than sitting here and watching you sulk.
RO JR: This isn't some kind of glorious second childhood, Guinan. Our bodies have been violated, changed. Doesn't that bother you?
GUINAN JR: Sure it bothers me, but at the moment I can't do anything about it. So I might as well enjoy it.
RO JR: Enjoy what? Where did you get the idea that being short and awkward is some kind of wonderful gift?
GUINAN JR: There must've been some part of childhood that you didn't loathe.
RO JR: Look, it was a long, depressing period of my life and I was grateful when it was finally over. I'd rather not relive it.
GUINAN JR: I bet you were a jumper. A jumper. You know, someone who jumped up and down on furniture all the time.
RO JR: What?
GUINAN JR: You were a jumper all right. The quiet ones, they always look so innocent. You think you can turn your back on them. Next thing you know, bam! They're bouncing on the bed.
RO JR: That is the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. Most of the time I didn't even have a bed.
GUINAN JR: Ah but you did have one sometimes and I bet you jumped on it.
RO JR: I most certainly did not.
GUINAN JR: Yeah I can see it in your eyes. You can barely resist the urge to leap up and start jumping around like a Tarkassian razorbeast.
RO JR: Guinan.
GUINAN JR: Oh yeah, oh yeah
RO JR: This is ridiculous.
GUINAN JR: That's right. And don't you dare join me, Ro Laren. You don't like jumping on beds!
RO JR: Oh yeah? I can jump higher.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We think the shuttle was caught in a molecular reversion field, which caused the structure of the ship to deteriorate. When the field penetrated the hull, it also began to affect the shuttle's crew.
O'BRIEN: When I tried to beam them off, I wasn't able to get a lock because the reversion field was masking part of the patterns.
CRUSHER: If the transporter only registered part of the RVN patterns, that would explain why the key sequences are missing.
LAFORGE: Exactly. With those key sequences missing, the transporter reconstructed them as children.
RIKER: If they're right, would you be able to use the transporter to reverse the effects?
CRUSHER: I think so. As long as there's no reversion field to mask their patterns, we should be able to do it. Chief, can you adjust the molecular imaging scanners to accept
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF (voiceover): We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir.
RIKER: On my way. We'll discuss this later.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the science team?
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our readings are being disrupted.
RIKER: Cause?
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the interference.
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf?
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class.
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf, prepare to return fire.
RIKER: Damage report.
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems.
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port.
WORF: Phasers locked.
RIKER: Fire.
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding.
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline.
RIKER: Shields?
WORF: Down to thirteen percent.
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven.
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down to sixty seven percent.
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Those last shots took out auxiliary power and emergency back-up. It's going to take at least an hour to get

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Warp power back online.
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five through forty.
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are being boarded, sir.

[Corridor]
FERENGI: Come with me.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Initiate intruder alert. All security teams report to
BERIK: Put down your weapons.
RIKER: Computer, deactivate all command functions. Authorisation, Riker Omega Three
COMPUTER: All command functions suspended.
MORTA: This is Morta. We have secured the Bridge. Begin transporting all able-bodied adults to the surface.

[Transporter room]
FERENGI: Come on, get up there. Up, up.

[Bridge]
BERIK: They have locked out the command functions.
MORTA: You said they would not have time.
BERIK: You led the assault team. You were too slow.
MORTA: You dare to blame me!
BERIK: We have secured the ship, DaiMon, but Morta's incompetence has denied us access to
MORTA: My incompetence? DaiMon, you know that I am
LURIN: Enough. Where is the Captain of this ship?
RIKER: I'm in command of this vessel. Who are you and on whose authority do you
LURIN: I am DaiMon Lurin and I declare this ship to be a loss and open to claim according to the Ferengi Salvage Code. You will cooperate with our salvage operations or we will begin executing your crew.

[School room]
PICARD JR: Is everyone all right?
RO JR: No fatalities or injuries among the children. The Ferengi have taken control of main Engineering and decks twenty three through thirty seven.
PICARD JR: We have to assume they've also taken the Bridge.
KEIKO JR: Captain, do you know what they've done with the younger children? With my little girl?
PICARD JR: They're taking all the adults down to the surface. It looks like they're keeping all the children on board the ship. Where was your daughter?
KEIKO JR: In primary care on deck fourteen.
PICARD JR: She's probably still there with the others. I wouldn't worry. We need to regain control of the ship. Options?
RO JR: We could flood the ship with anesthizine gas.
PICARD JR: That's been locked out with the rest of the command functions.
RO JR: If they're typical Ferengi, they're probably very pleased with themselves by now. Maybe even getting a little overconfident.
PICARD JR: Agreed. They might think they don't need as much of their crew to hold the ship. We could use the element of surprise to give us a tactical advantage.
GUINAN JR: Tactical advantage? Jean-Luc, look at your team for a minute. We're children.
PICARD JR: We can't just stay here while our ship is being commandeered.
GUINAN JR: I'm not suggesting that we do. But we can't act as if we were still adults.
PICARD JR: What do you suggest we do?
GUINAN JR: We look like children. Maybe it's time we started acting like children.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I hope your profit margin's pretty high for this little adventure, because you're risking war with the Federation.
LURIN: We're not affiliated with the Ferengi Alliance. We are in business for ourselves. Yes, it will be highly profitable. For an investment of two surplus Klingon ships, a few repairs and some weapons, we've netted a Federation starship and her crew, not to mention a planet rich in vendarite.
RIKER: So that's what this is all about. What did you do with the science team that was on the surface?
LURIN: They have proved most helpful in extracting the mineral.
RIKER: You used them as slave laborers.
LURIN: The addition of your crew will greatly speed up the process. As for your ship, I'm sure that it will fetch a handsome price on the Romulan market. But before that can happen, we need to regain access to your central computer.
RIKER: You don't really think I'm going to help you.
LURIN: I think that the mines on Ligos Seven can be very hazardous. Now, how many people on your ship?
RIKER: One thousand fourteen.
LURIN: Very hazardous, Commander.

[School room]
COMPUTER: Hello. I'm the classroom computer system. What can I do for you, today?
PICARD JR: Computer, display interior security grid.
COMPUTER: I'm sorry, but I can't do that. Would you like to play a game?
PICARD JR: No, I would not. Computer, display an internal schematic diagram.
COMPUTER: I'm sorry, but I can't do that. Would you like to see some interesting plants or animals?
GUINAN JR: It's a child's computer, remember? Computer, can you show me a picture of the inside of the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: Yes, I can. The Enterprise is a Galaxy-class starship. Do you know how to spell Enterprise? E N T E
PICARD JR: Delete audio. All right, this'll have to do. We're here. there's a service conduit that runs to here and then leads to a Jeffries tube here. But you and Ensign Ro will still have to cross this corridor before you can get to main Engineering.
RO JR: Captain.
PICARD JR: Excellent. Ready? Make it so.
PICARD: What the devil?
ALEXANDER: I was just playing. I'm sorry, Captain.
PICARD JR: Alexander, would you mind if I borrowed your toy for a little while?
ALEXANDER: Go ahead.
PICARD JR: Thank you.
PICARD: After you.

[Transporter room]
KEIKO JR: I've got the phasers, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]
RO JR: This is the first time these Jefferies tubes haven't seemed cramped.
GUINAN JR: How much farther do we have to go?
RO JR: About fifty meters. Don't tell me you're tired.
GUINAN JR: I'm not as young as I used to be.

[Jefferies tube]
RO JR: This is it. Main Engineering. Now we wait.

[School room]
PICARD JR: Report?
ALEXANDER: Mission accomplished, sir. The one in sickbay never saw me.
PICARD JR: Very good.
KEIKO JR: I'd say we're ready. Have you figured out how to get to the Bridge?
PICARD JR: I'm afraid I can only think of one way.

[Corridor]
BERIK: What do you want?
PICARD JR: I need to see my father.
BERIK: Go back inside.
PICARD JR: I need to see him right now.
BERIK: Do not argue with me. Go back inside.
PICARD JR: I need to see him now! Now! Now! Now! Now! Now! Now! Now! Stop it! You've hurt me! I want my father! I want my father!
BERIK: All right. Just stop that.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD JR: Let me go!
BERIK: Here he is. Now be quiet!
RIKER: What is going on?
PICARD JR: Dad!
RIKER: So, son, how are you?
PICARD JR: I'm okay.
RIKER: And how are your friends, Keiko, Guinan and Ro?
PICARD JR: They're okay too. But
RIKER: What's wrong?
PICARD JR: We don't have anything to do. None of the games are working.
RIKER: I know. The Ferengi made Daddy turn off the main computer.
PICARD JR: Can't you just turn on the kid's computer in schoolroom eight? We just want to play a few games.
RIKER: I don't know if they'll let me do that, Jean-Luc, but I will ask.
PICARD JR: Thanks, Number One. He's my number one Dad.

[School room]
CHILD: Here they come.
KEIKO JR: How did it go? Did Commander Riker get the message?
PICARD JR: He understood. We should have access very soon.

[Ready room]
LURIN: Come in.
LURIN: I understand your son was here to see you.
RIKER: That's right.
LURIN: We Ferengi do not bring our offspring along with us aboard ship.
RIKER: Then I suppose that's your loss. We consider our families one of our strengths.
LURIN: I think you will find that they can also be a weakness. Unless you release the computer to our control, I will execute every child on this ship, beginning with yours.
RIKER: Even you wouldn't be that cruel.
LURIN: It is cruel to put children in danger by bringing them aboard a starship in the first place.
RIKER: All right. Just so you don't harm my son.
LURIN: You will release the computer and show Morta exactly how to use it.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Computer, release command control this station. Authorisation, Riker Omega three.
COMPUTER: Command functions restored.
RIKER: Okay, Morta. The Enterprise computer system is controlled by three primary main processing cores, cross-linked with a redundant melacortz ramistat. fourteen kiloquad interface modules. The core element is based on an FTL nanoprocessor with twenty five bilateral kelilactirals, with twenty of those being slaved into the primary heisenfram terminal. Now you do know what a bilateral kelilactiral is?
MORTA: Well, of course I do, human. I am not stupid.
RIKER: No, of course not. This is the isopalavial interface which controls the main firomactal drive unit. Don't touch that. You'll blow up the entire firomactal drive.
MORTA: What? Wait. What is a firomactal drive? Just explain it to me.
RIKER: That is the firomactal drive unit. It controls the ramistat core and also keeps the ontarian manifold at forty thousand KRGs.
RIKER: The firomactal drive is powered by

[School room]
PICARD JR: Command lockout has been released. Accessing transporter. Weapons deactivation program is in place. Transporter security field standing by. We're ready.

[Engineering]
RO JR: Tag!
GUINAN JR: You're it!

[Corridor]
BERIK: Yes?
ALEXANDER: I found this in the school room. Is it yours?

[Corridor]
PICARD JR: That's all of them except for the two on the Bridge. Wait here until I return.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: So, one more time. The ramistat kiloquad capacity is a function of the square root of the intermix ratio times the sum of the plasma injector quotient.

[Ready room]
LURIN: Come in.
PICARD JR: I believe you're in my chair.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate: 46236.3. We have taken Lurin and his men into custody. The Ferengi Alliance has quickly disavowed any knowledge of these renegades. With the mining operation closed and our crew back on board, we can now turn our attention to other problems.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Phase inducers activated. Energy levels nominal.
CRUSHER: I'm loading the adult patterns into the buffer.
O'BRIEN: Transposition matrix locked in. That should do it, Captain.
PICARD JR: Energize.
CRUSHER: How do you feel?
PICARD: I feel fine. Everything seems a little smaller.

[School room]
RO JR: It's my mother. The funny thing is, I never really drew a picture of her when I was young. It's just, for some reason I wanted to now.
GUINAN: That's the wonderful thing about crayons. They can take you to more places than a starship.
RO JR: It's my turn, isn't it?
GUINAN: Only if you're ready.
RO JR: It's not quite as bad as I remembered it. Being a child, I mean. Well, we'd better get going.
GUINAN: Well, what's the hurry? I mean, the transporter will still be there. Why don't you pass me the royal blue.
RO JR: Here.
GUINAN: Thank you. Did you do this one too?
RO JR: I did all of them.
GUINAN: All of them?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46271.5. The Enterprise has entered orbit of Deinonychus Seven, but our scheduled rendezvous with the supply ship Biko has been delayed for another forty eight hours. In the meantime, many members of the crew are taking advantage of the delay to pursue their own projects, myself included.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Computer, stop playback. Change the clarinet to an oboe. Continue recording.
PICARD: Computer, pause playback. Come.
PICARD: Yes, gentlemen?
LAFORGE: Captain we'd like your permission to take the Engineering computer offline for a couple of hours. We're working on a new interface that would allow Data to act as an emergency backup in the event of a ship-wide systems failure.
DATA: In theory, my neural network should be able to sustain key systems until primary control is restored.
PICARD: It sounds like an intriguing experiment. I'll be interested to see the results. Permission granted.
LAFORGE: It's possible we may even be able to run secondary systems through Data. Weapons control, sensor arrays.
PICARD: Yes, I get the idea, Mister La Forge. Thank you. Please proceed.
PICARD: Computer, begin playback from the first measure.
PICARD: Computer, pause recording. Come.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I need to talk to you about Something for Breakfast.
PICARD: Breakfast?
CRUSHER: The play.
PICARD: Ah, yes. Well, it's a very intriguing drama, but I really don't have the time it would take to learn a part. And anyway, I'm not much of an actor.
CRUSHER: That's no problem.
PICARD: Oh?
CRUSHER: Well, you wouldn't be playing one of the leads.
PICARD: Oh.
CRUSHER: It's a very small part. Only two lines.
PICARD: Really.
CRUSHER: You play the butler.
PICARD: Well, I'll think about it and let you know.
CRUSHER: You would be wonderful, Jean-Luc. We're rehearsing today at one thirty.
PICARD: Computer, begin playback from the first measure.
PICARD: Computer, pause recording. Yes?
WORF: Captain, I am sorry to interrupt.
PICARD: No, please, Mister Worf, come in.
WORF: I was hoping to take advantage of the Biko's delay by staging shipwide security drills. I have planned a tentative schedule.
PICARD: Oh yes, this is very impressive, Mister Worf. But we'll be taking on new personnel at Starbase one eighteen in a few weeks. Surely the drills can wait until then.
WORF: In that case, I will use the time to perform maintenance checks on the forward phaser array.
PICARD: Mister Worf, is there some reason why you're trying to give yourself more work?
WORF: No, sir. I simply wish to use the extra time
PICARD: Enjoy yourself. You have the free time. Use it.
WORF: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Computer, continue recording and playback once more. From the top.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Father! What did he say?
WORF: The Captain saw fit to release me from my duties.
ALEXANDER: You mean you can go?
WORF: I can go.
ALEXANDER: Saddle up, Father.

[Deadwood, main street]
WORF: Where are we?
ALEXANDER: Deadwood. Nineteenth century Earth. The Ancient West.
WORF: What is our function here?
ALEXANDER: You're the Sheriff and I'm the deputy.
WORF: So, we are in law enforcement.
ALEXANDER: Right.

[Engineering]
DATA: Geordi, I have noticed that you have not shaved. Are you attempting to grow another beard?
LAFORGE: As a matter of fact, I am, Data. What do you think?
DATA: As is the case with many natural growth processes, it is difficult to envision the end product based on an intermediate stage.
LAFORGE: You're right. Give it a few more days.
LAFORGE: Okay, I'm going to need to access your auxiliary inputs.
DATA: One moment.
LAFORGE: I must admit, Data, I never get used to seeing you like this.
DATA: I do not understand. You are constantly working on similar electronic systems, yet their appearances do not disturb you.
LAFORGE: But you're not just another electronic system.
DATA: Thank you, Geordi. Nor are you just another biological organism.
LAFORGE: All right, that should do it. Are you ready?
DATA: Yes. Establishing computer linkup. Interface complete.
LAFORGE: All right, let's see what you can do.

[Deadwood, main street]
WORF: You wrote this holodeck program yourself?
ALEXANDER: Well, Mister Barclay helped a little.
WORF: I must have a little talk with Mister Barclay.

[Gold Strike saloon]
ELI: If I ever find the varmint who drew this, he'll be sorry he ever put pen to paper. I'm ten times uglier than that, ain't I?
ELI: Shut up. You laugh so much, it's a wonder you ain't got flies in your mouth.
BANDITO: You're a very funny man, Senor Eli.
ALEXANDER: That's the bad guy. His name's Eli Hollander. They call him the Butcher of Bozeman. He's killed twenty three men. He's the meanest and the toughest gunslinger in the West. You have to watch him. He's fast.
WORF: So I am here to apprehend him?
ALEXANDER: If you can.
WORF: You are under arrest.
ELI: Is that so.
WORF: You will come with me.
ALEXANDER: No, no, no. Computer, freeze program.
WORF: What is wrong?
ALEXANDER: That was too easy. It has to be harder to beat the bad guys. Otherwise, it's no fun. Computer, increase program difficulty to level four. Go back to where my father and I first walked into the saloon. Come on, Father.
ELI: If I ever find the varmint who drew this, he'll be sorry he ever put pen to paper. I'm ten times uglier than that, ain't I?
ELI: Shut up. You laugh so much, it's a wonder you ain't got flies in your mouth.
BANDITO: You're a very funny man, Senor Eli.
WORF: Where are they going?
ALEXANDER: They don't want to get hit by the bullets.
WORF: You are under arrest.
ELI: Well, looks like Sheriff Worf's here to arrest me. That don't sound like a bright idea.
ELI: Do it?
WORF: You have been accused of committing a homicide.
ELI: If you mean murder, then I guess I'm guilty. I've killed twenty three men, Sheriff. One more ain't going to make much of a difference. Of course, shooting someone as ugly as you couldn't be considered a crime, could it? Was you just born that way, or did your momma marry an armadillo?
ALEXANDER: Sheriff, look out!
WORF: I'm beginning to see the appeal of this program.
ELI: Don't twitch a whisker, Sheriff, unless you want a shave. Okay, boys. Saddle up. But first, get their money and jewellry.
WORF: You are a murderer and a thief.
ELI: A man's got to make a living.
TROI: I suggest you find a new line of work.
ALEXANDER: I asked Counselor Troi to join us. She loves Western stories.
ELI: You'll regret this, stranger.

[Engineering]
DATA: I am now attempting to access the long range sensor array.
LAFORGE: Forward sensor array coming online. We're getting a clear scan.
DATA: I will perform a routine maintenance check on the starboard inertial damping system.
LAFORGE: Dampers online. Maintenance check in progress. Data, I think we're on to something here. Let's see what you can do with secondary systems. Try gravitational control.
DATA: Initiating gravitational
LAFORGE: What's wrong?
DATA: There appears to be an energy fluctuation in my neural net. I am disconnecting my interface to the computer. Interface deactivated.
LAFORGE: You all right?
DATA: I have experienced a brief power surge in my positronic subprocessor. But I am fine.
LAFORGE: Maybe the interface coding isn't as stable than we thought. Looks like we've got a couple of hours of systems analysis before we can try this again. Let's check the interface programming.

[Sheriff's office]
WORF: What are his rights in this century? Is there be a trial or shall I execute him?
ALEXANDER: We're supposed to hold him until the US Marshal comes, and then we'll take him to Rapid City for a trial.
ELI: Frankly, I don't think I'll be around here that long. Not after my old man hears about this.
WORF: What old man are you referring to?
ELI: My pa. When he breaks me out of this tin can, the gravedigger'll be working overtime.
ALEXANDER: Your pa's no match for Sheriff Worf.
WORF: Yes. When your pa comes, we will be ready for him.
TROI: He's right. You're no match for the Hollanders.
WORF: I am sure the three of us can handle any problems.
TROI: Hold on. I was just passing through town, saw a little trouble, thought I'd lend a hand. But I ain't one of your deputies, Sheriff.
WORF: Counselor, I would appreciate some support in this matter.
TROI: Durango. I'm called Durango.
WORF: Yes, er, Counselor Durango, perhaps you would consider becoming a temporary deputy?
TROI: For a price. Five hundred dollars.
WORF: Alexander we require large amounts of currency.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. I'll go to the bank and make a withdrawal.
WORF: Deanna, how do you know so much about this period in Earth's history?
TROI: My father used to read me stories from the Ancient West when I was a little girl. I must admit, I always wanted to play the part of the mysterious stranger.
ANNIE: You are so brave, facing down that evil man like you did.
WORF: Why hank you. Miss?
ANNIE: Annie, you big galoot. You best not forget that tonight, 'cos I'm going to make you beef steak and some gooseberry cobbler for dessert.
TROI: Sounds delicious.
ANNIE: And I bought some special candles for the table setting. Pure beeswax.
WORF: I will not be able to come this evening. I have a prisoner.
TROI: I'll watch him for you, Sheriff. You two go have a good time.
WORF: That's very considerate of you, but I would be negligent in my duties if I did not stay. I am sorry, Miss Annie.
ANNIE: It's another woman, ain't it? It's that floozy down there at Miss Langford's house of pleasure.
WORF: Who?
ELI: You sure got a way with women, Sheriff.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Computer, activate Picard Mozart trio, program one. Play back tracks one, two and three. Tempo allegro.
PICARD: Computer, stop playback. Computer identify musical composition.
COMPUTER: Picard Mozart trio, program one.

[Rehearsal room]
CRUSHER: Okay, let's work through Act two from the beginning. Whenever you're ready.
RIKER: Felis catus, is your taxonomic nomenclature. An endothermic quadruped, carnivorous by nature.
CRUSHER: Hold it. Will, what are you reading?
RIKER: The lines. Why?
CRUSHER: That's not the right dialogue.
CRUSHER: Your visual, olfactory, and auditory senses contribute to
RIKER: I recognize it. This is Data's poetry.
CRUSHER: What? The play's gone. I just keep getting more poetry.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Well, the PADDs are functioning normally. It seems to be a problem with the information retrieval net. Somehow when you tried to call up your play, the computer accessed Data's literary files.
DATA: Geordi, perhaps this problem is related to our interface experiment.
LAFORGE: We'd better run a level two diagnostic on the computer. See if this problem has spread to any other systems.
DATA: And I will perform a self-diagnostic.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea.
CRUSHER: You will let me know if you find the play?
LAFORGE: Oh yeah, don't worry. It's in here somewhere.

[Mine workings]
BANDITO: We got him, jefe.
DATA-FRANK: Where's my boy?
ALEXANDER: I'm not supposed to be kidnapped now. Computer, freeze program! Hey, Computer, freeze program.
BANDITO: You want us to kill him, Senor Frank?
DATA-FRANK: No. He's more valuable to us alive.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Feline supplement one hundred twenty seven. Spot, I have formulated a new mixture of foods specifically designed for your highly selective tastes.
DATA: I find it extremely difficult to predict what you will find acceptable. Perhaps hunger will compel you to try it again.
DATA: Spot, you are disrupting my ability to work.
DATA: Vamoose, you little varmint.

[Gold Strike saloon]
ANNIE: What'll it be?
WORF: I was looking for my deputy. Perhaps you have seen him.
ANNIE: Nope. What'll you have?
WORF: Klingon fire wine.
ANNIE: This ain't Kansas City. We ain't got none of that fancy European stuff here. Maybe I should get you a sherry. Ain't that is what they serve at Miss Langford's? It is, ain't it? Ain't it?
DATA-FRANK: Howdy, Sheriff.
WORF: Commander, what are you doing here?
DATA-FRANK: The name is Frank Hollander. What are you smiling at?
WORF: Nothing. Nothing at all, Mister Hollander. What is it you want?
DATA-FRANK: My boy.
WORF: That is impossible. Your son is to stand trial for murder.
DATA-FRANK: Well then, we'll just have to work something out. Is there anything you want in exchange for my boy?
WORF: You have nothing I want.
DATA-FRANK: Is that so? Is that so? What about your deputy?
WORF: What about him? Where is he? I do not negotiate with criminals. Your son will stand trial.
DATA-FRANK: Not so fast.
WORF: Commander, what are you doing?
DATA-FRANK: I ain't in the mood for games, Sheriff.
WORF: Data? Commander? Computer, freeze program.
DATA-FRANK: I wouldn't walk out that door if I was you, Sheriff.

[Sheriff's office]
TROI: What's wrong?
WORF: The holodeck safeguards are not functioning. Alexander's in trouble.
TROI: My God, you've been shot! Computer, end program. Troi to Captain Picard. Troi to Security.
WORF: There's another character in the program. Hollander's father. And he looks like Commander Data.
TROI: Data?
WORF: But it is not Data. I cannot explain. I believe he has taken Alexander.
DATA-ELI: Oh, now isn't that a shame? Poor Sheriff's been injured. What's the matter? Was my pa a little too rough on you?
TROI: Data?
DATA-ELI: What?
TROI: Why is the computer creating characters that look like Data?
WORF: Where have they taken my son? Where is he?
DATA-ELI: Temper, temper, Sheriff. My pa ain't going to like if I come home all bruised.
TROI: Worf, wait. We have to remember, even though the holodeck safeguards may be off, this is still a program. If we can just get to the end of this story the way it was designed to play out, the program will automatically terminate.
WORF: You are right. I will begin by speaking to the people of this town. Perhaps someone witnessed Alexander's abduction.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Mister Data believe they have found the cause of the mysterious malfunctions which have been plaguing the ship.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We think our interface experiment may have caused one of the computer's core subroutines to be altered.
DATA: When the interface malfunction occurred, subroutine C forty seven was replaced by elements from my personal programming.
RIKER: What does C forty seven control?
LAFORGE: Library computer access, replicator selection, recreational programming. No critical systems.
DATA: That would explain why your music composition program began playing The Slavonic Dances. I have been analyzing the collected works of Antonin Dvorak.
LAFORGE: It's the same with Doctor Crusher's play, and with the food replicators.
RIKER: The replicators on decks four through nine are producing nothing but cat food.
PICARD: Cat food?
DATA: I have been formulating nutritional supplements for Spot.
PICARD: When can you correct the problem?
DATA: We are currently attempting to isolate the corrupt circuit pathways. I reckon the process should take less then two hours.
PICARD: What did you say?
DATA: I said the process should take less than two hours.
RIKER: No, you said I reckon.
DATA: According to my memory log, I did not use those words. Ya'll must be mistaken.
LAFORGE: There, Data, you did it again.
DATA: Did whut?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, perhaps you should take Mister Data to Engineering. See if you can find the problem.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Sheriff's office]
DATA-ELI: Can I help you with somethin?
WORF: I spoke to several witnesses who saw Alexander being abducted as he was leaving the bank by one of Hollander's men. We must begin a systematic search of the town.
TROI: Worf, we've got another problem. I saw Eli playing cards. He was shuffling the way Data does when he plays poker. He doesn't just look like Data, he has Data's abilities. Which means his father probably does also.
DATA-FRANK: I've came to see my boy.
WORF: Remove your weapon.
DATA-FRANK: Better take a good look at that gun, Sheriff. You might be seeing it again real soon.
DATA-ELI: Pa?
DATA-FRANK: Eli! How are they treating you, boy?
DATA-ELI: Real bad, pa. They ain't fed me since I got here and the Sheriff's been roughin up on me somethin fierce.
DATA-FRANK: Don't you worry, boy. The Sheriff's going to pay. Who's the stranger?
DATA-ELI: Don't know. She ain't said her name. But she's in cahoots with the Sheriff and she's mighty mean with that Winchester.
DATA-FRANK: You sit tight, boy. I'll have you home in time for supper. I'm going to give you one more opportunity, Sheriff, to avoid a ugly situation. Release my boy.
WORF: I have reconsidered your offer. I will release your son in exchange for my deputy.
DATA-FRANK: I thought you might have a change of heart. Meet me in two hours. You be in front of the saloon. I'll be in front of the livery station. Strangers ain't invited.
WORF: Agreed.
TROI: In every Western I've ever read, the villains always break their word. he can't be trusted.
WORF: But we have made an honorable agreement.
TROI: They're not concerned with honor, Worf. This is the Ancient West. There's a gunfighter out there who has the speed and accuracy of an android. And in two hours, he's going to try to kill you.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Mister Data.
DATA: Howdy, Commander.
RIKER: Geordi, what have you found?
DATA: Well, we figure part of my memory structure was replaced with information from the computer's recreational data base.
LAFORGE: Specifically, the files relating to the nineteenth century American West.
RIKER: That would explain the accent.
DATA: You got it, partner.
RIKER: This is a result of the experimental interface?
LAFORGE: I'm afraid so. But we've initiated a progressive memory purge to restore Data's programming to its original state. He should be back to normal in a couple of hours.
RIKER: And what about the computer's recreational data base?
LAFORGE: We started a memory purge there as well. It'll take another hour, maybe two.
DATA: Commander. You just sit tight. We'll have this all fixed up in time for supper.
RIKER: Good.

[Sheriff's office]
WORF: I will be positioned here, at the eastern end of the street. Frank Hollander says he will approach from this end. When he reaches this point, he will be within range.
TROI: Understood. What about Alexander?
WORF: There's a rain barrel in front of the saloon. It should be enough to stop the bullets.
ANNIE: You would not believe what I went through to get old man Newsom to give up his telegraph machine.
WORF: Excellent.
ANNIE: Lord knows why I keep risking my life for you, Sheriff.
WORF: Oh, yes. Thank you, Miss Annie. I am in your debt.
WORF: I have connected the communicator's energy cell to serve as the power source.
TROI: How long will the field last?
WORF: No more than fifteen seconds. It is highly unstable.
TROI: Let's hope it's enough.

[Deadwood street]
DATA-FRANK: Eli, get down!
WORF: Alexander!
TROI: Don't even think about it.
DATA-MEXICAN: Senor Frank!
DATA-FRANK: Go ahead. Shoot me.
WORF: Do not show your face in this town again.
DATA-FRANK: Let's go.

[Gold Strike saloon]
ALEXANDER: Father!
WORF: Are you all right?
ALEXANDER: Yes.
WORF: End program.
TROI: I don't understand this. The story should be over. What's left?
WORF: Computer, end program.
DATA-ANNIE: Sheriff! You're as handy with a shooting iron as you are with a woman's heart.
WORF: Computer, end program! Computer! Now!
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46278.3. Both Commander Data and the ship's computer have been restored to normal operation. Our rendezvous with the supply ship Biko has proceeded as planned.

[Alexander's bedroom]
ALEXANDER: Father? After what happened I guess you'll never want to go back to the Ancient West.
WORF: The town of Deadwood may face danger once again. If they do, they will need a Sheriff and a deputy.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: Commander, is it your intention to continue to grow your beard?
LAFORGE: Actually, I'm not sure yet. Why, Worf?
WORF: I am just asking.
CRUSHER: Seven card stud, one-eyed jacks are wild.
RIKER: Frankly, Geordi, I like the beard.
LAFORGE: Thank you, Commander.
CRUSHER: You know, I have always been a little suspicious of men with beards.
WORF: Why is that?
CRUSHER: I don't know. It's as if they're trying to hide something.
RIKER: Hide? Don't be ridiculous, Doctor. The beard is an ancient and proud tradition.
LAFORGE: Some of the most distinguished men in history have worn beards, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I know. But after the razor was invented I think beards became mostly a fashion statement.
WORF: I'm not concerned with fashion. To a Klingon, a beard is a symbol of courage.
RIKER: I think it's a sign of strength.
CRUSHER: Sure, and of course, women can't grow beards.
LAFORGE: Doctor, it sounds to me like you feel beards are nothing more than an affectation.
CRUSHER: I do. But there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, women wear makeup and nail polish. I just think it's time you men admitted it.
RIKER: My beard is not an affectation.
CRUSHER: Oh? Well then you wouldn't mind shaving it off.
RIKER: I could lose it in a minute. I've just gotten used to it.
CRUSHER: Okay, then why don't we up the stakes a little? And if I win, all off you shave your beards off.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, wait a minute. What if you lose? What are you going to give up?
CRUSHER: I'm open for suggestions.
RIKER: Well, I've always wanted to see you as a brunette.
CRUSHER: Oh, I did that once when I was thirteen. I couldn't change back fast enough.
RIKER: That makes me even more curious.
CRUSHER: Fine. If one of you wins, I become a brunette. Are we on?
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, we'll take that bet.
CRUSHER: Looks like you have the hand to beat, Commander.
LAFORGE: Two hundred.
CRUSHER: I'm in two hundred.
RIKER: Geordi.
PICARD (voiceover): This is the Captain. We have arrived at the Tyran system. All senior staff to the Bridge.
CRUSHER: Wait!
RIKER: Sorry, you heard the Captain. Duty calls. I guess we'll have to do this some other time.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46307.2. We have just come into orbit of Tyrus Seven A to monitor progress on the Tyran particle fountain, a radically new mining technology. So far the project has been fraught with problems, and is well behind schedule. Mister La Forge has been assigned to evaluate the situation.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: Doctor Farallon. The original design called for the particle fountain to lift five hundred kilograms per minute from the surface. So far we haven't come close to that.
FARALLON: Well, that's why I want to increase the stream density. That should boost the lift capacity by seventy two percent.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you realize of course you're going to be overloading the field generators in the process.
FARALLON: Not if we distribute the overload evenly throughout the system.
LAFORGE: Doctor, forgive me, but maybe we should concentrate on completing this phase of the project before we start talking about re designing it.
FARALLON: Commander, I know you're here to evaluate this project.
LAFORGE: Starfleet is considering using a particle fountain on Carema Three. They want to know how feasible it is.
FARALLON: And will your opinion be the deciding factor?
LAFORGE: No, not really. I'll make my report to Captain Picard. He'll make the official recommendation to Starfleet. They'll decide.
FARALLON: What's your feeling so far?
LAFORGE: Well, it seems to me the question we should be asking is, is this technology is more efficient than conventional mining techniques?
FARALLON: Commander I know we've had problems here. It seems like nothing's gone right. It's taking a lot longer than I thought to get the particle stream to full strength. But I know it can work. This is the direction that mining is going to take in the future, and it should be implemented on Carema Three.
LAFORGE: I know this can be potentially very exciting.
FARALLON: All right, I want to show you something I've been working on. Something that might help us complete this project more quickly. I've used these on a limited basis
DATA (voiceover): Enterprise to Commander La Forge.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am reading significant power fluctuations from the station core. Please report.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: La Forge here. We have a malfunction in one of the power grids. We're losing particle stream confinement.
DATA (voiceover): Do you require assistance?
LAFORGE: Stand by. I'm sorry, Doctor, I think we're going to have to shut it down.
FARALLON: It took four months to get the particle flux up to this level. If we shut down, it'll take another four months just to get it back.
LAFORGE: Look, e have less than five minutes before we lose confinement. When that happens, the particle stream is going to flood this entire station. We're going to have to shut it down then anyway.
FARALLON: Then we'll just have to fix the power grid.
LAFORGE: Yeah, bow do we do that? The defective grid is two hundred meters down conduit A two. We have to disassemble four bulkheads just to get to it.
FARALLON: Well here's the perfect opportunity to show you what I had in mind.
LAFORGE: What is this?
FARALLON: This is an exocomp, the experiment I was telling you about.
FARALLON: If it doesn't work, we'll still have time to shut down the fountain.
DATA (voiceover): Enterprise to La Forge. What is your situation?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Unchanged for the moment, but we're working on it. Listen, if this doesn't work soon, we're going to have to shut this thing down, all right?
LAFORGE: The confinement field is at full strength. Particle flux steady. All power levels are back to normal.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander La Forge, please report.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: We're fine, Data. The power grid is fully restored.
LAFORGE: The malfunction seems to have been repaired and operations over here at the station are all back to normal.

[Bridge]
DATA: How were you able to accomplish the repair so quickly?

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: You know, I'm not exactly sure.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device that carried out the repairs.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Energize.
KELSO: Aye, sir.
DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor. I am Lieutenant Commander Data.
FARALLON: Mister Data, I was hoping I'd have a chance to meet you. I've done extensive studies of your positronic network.
DATA: And I have studied your design for the particle fountain. I find the concept to be highly innovative.
FARALLON: Thank you.
DATA: I am curious how you were able to repair the power grid so quickly.
FARALLON: This should make it clear, Commander.
LAFORGE: Why don't we set up in Engineering.
FARALLON: Is it true that your computational speed is limited only by the physical separation of your positronic links?
DATA: Actually, that is no longer the case. I have recently converted my interlink sequencer to asynchronous operation, which removed the performance constraint.
LAFORGE: Doctor, this way please.
FARALLON: I see. But how did you resolve the signal fragmentation?
DATA: The interlink sequencer is now bi-directional. It compensates for the asynchronous mode distortion arising from the resonant field.
FARALLON: Yes. That's fascinating. Does the sequencer require any buffering system to eliminate interference?

[Engineering]
FARALLON: We've been using devices like this on Tyrus Seven for years. The basic unit is a common industrial servo mechanism. A few years ago I started tinkering with one. This is the result.
LAFORGE: Boridium power converter. Axionic chip network. It's very impressive. In terms of sheer computational speed, this little guy might be able to compete with you, Data.
FARALLON: Oh, the exocomps don't come close to Data's sophistication.
DATA: Exocomps?
FARALLON: That's what I call them. Let's say you had an anti-matter flow converter that was fluctuating. How would you repair it?
DATA: The correct procedure would be to adjust the converter.
FARALLON: With what?
DATA: A mode stabilizer.
FARALLON: Okay. Let me input the problem into the exocomp. A fluctuating anti-matter flow converter. Now, let's see what happens.
LAFORGE: A mode stabilizer. Very nice.
DATA: You have incorporated a micro-replication system into the device in order to fashion tools.
FARALLON: It's more than that. I designed the exocomps to be problem solvers. Whenever they perform a task they've never done before, the micro-replicator creates new circuit pathways within the unit's memory.
DATA: So in a sense, they are learning.
FARALLON: Exactly. The more situations they encounter, the more circuit pathways they build. They become better tools as they work.
LAFORGE: It's impressive technology, that's for sure. Once it's out of the experimental stage, there'll be plenty of applications.
FARALLON: Commander, I'm hoping the experimental stage is over. When are we supposed to brief Captain Picard on the status of the particle fountain?
LAFORGE: At sixteen hundred hours.
FARALLON: Good. I'll have a proposal to make.

[Ready room]
FARALLON: Captain, I know you're supposed to give your evaluation to Starfleet today. I'd like you to postpone that report another forty eight hours.
PICARD: The Enterprise is scheduled to leave the Tyran system tomorrow. If I'm to change that plan, I'll need a very good reason.
FARALLON: I realize that, sir. If you're going to make a recommendation to Starfleet about using the particle fountain on Carema, it seems only fair that you should see it operating at full strength.
PICARD: Agreed.
FARALLON: I think I can complete the project and boost the efficiency of the particle stream if I use exocomps, the new devices I've constructed.
PICARD: I understand one of these devices successfully repaired a faulty power grid.
FARALLON: Yes, sir. I've been testing them on a limited basis, but I think they're ready to be used on a larger scale.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what are your thoughts?
LAFORGE: Well, I guess the only risk is in falling even further behind.
FARALLON: I'm willing to take that risk.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Exocomps are highly sophisticated devices, sir. If they perform up to expectation, their potential to advance this project is considerable.
PICARD: I'm inclined to agree. I don't think that forty eight hours is too much time to risk particularly when the gains areso substantial. You may proceed, Doctor.
FARALLON: Thank you, sir. If possible, I'd like Commander Data to work with me.
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I welcome the opportunity.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
FARALLON: Commander, there's a plasma conduit in one of the access tunnels that's ready to be sealed. It's the perfect job for an exocomp.
DATA: I agree, Doctor.
FARALLON: Well, Mister Data, what is your analysis so far?
DATA: I have successfully completed fourteen separate tasks with this exocomp in the past hour. I estimate it would take two people nine hours to complete the same tasks. I would characterize the unit's performance as excellent.
FARALLON: I hope Commander La Forge and Captain Picard agree with you.
DATA: I am confident they will. Commander La Forge is especially
FARALLON: It didn't finish sealing the plasma conduit. Let me end it back in.
DATA: It is not accepting your commands.
FARALLON: Maybe there's a malfunction in the control processor. Let me see if I can override it.
DATA: Doctor.
FARALLON: I'm all right. The control pad just overloaded. What's the matter with this thing? Second officer's log, stardate 46315.5. The unexplained behavior of the exocomp has greatly puzzled both Doctor Farallon and myself. We have brought the defective unit to the Enterprise for investigation.

[Engineering]
FARALLON: The exocomp came out of the plasma conduit. We tried to override the commands and send it back in, but it just shut down. It's been completely unresponsive ever since.
LAFORGE: Well, let's see what our computer has to say.
DATA: Geordi, the interface circuitry which links the exocomp to the control pad is completely burned out.
LAFORGE: That's strange. is there any evidence of secondary power surges?
DATA: No.
LAFORGE: But what's going on there? Data, increase the magnification of section gamma four.
DATA: Interesting. The number of new circuit pathways has increased by six hundred thirty two percent.
FARALLON: Oh, no.
LAFORGE: What is it?
FARALLON: Sometimes an exocomp starts forming large numbers of new pathways totally at random. Eventually, it reaches a point where it shuts down. Just like this one.
DATA: Doctor, the new pathways do not appear to be interfering with the original circuitry.
FARALLON: Once the exocomp is this badly corrupted, it's useless. You have to erase the unit and start all over again, and there's no time for that now.
LAFORGE: That leaves you with only two. It's going to slow you down.
FARALLON: Yes, Commander. You have the right to point out that you told me so.
LAFORGE: I only wanted to say that we'd be happy to add on an extra shift to pick up the slack.
FARALLON: I'm sorry. I guess I'm touchy these days.
LAFORGE: It's okay. You've got a lot on your shoulders.
FARALLON: Well, I'd better get back to it. Thanks, Commander.
LAFORGE: I feel sorry for her. This project has had nothing but problems. Why did that plasma conduit explode?
DATA: Apparently there was a micro-fracture in the conduit wall. The fault did not register on our instruments.
LAFORGE: I guess it's a good thing the exocomp malfunctioned. Almost seems like it knew just when to leave.
DATA: Geordi, are you implying the exocomp exhibited some form of self-preservation?
LAFORGE: Of course not.
PIERSON (voiceover): Lieutenant Pierson to Commander La Forge. Sir, could you join us in the systems monitor room?
LAFORGE: On my way.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Computer perform a level one diagnostic of the exocomp's command module.
COMPUTER: The command pathways are functioning normally.
DATA: How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out?
COMPUTER: The interface circuitry has been repaired.
DATA: Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that there was a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve hours.
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Interface failure occurred at eleven hundred fifty hours today, when the exocomp produced a power surge which burned out the linkage.
DATA: How and when was it repaired?
COMPUTER: The exocomp activated a self-repair program at thirteen hundred forty hours.
DATA: Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and repair it two hours later?
COMPUTER: Unknown.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Here you are. I thought you'd be hard at work by now.
FARALLON: I wanted a quiet cup of tea before I went back. Gathering strength, I guess.
LAFORGE: I've come to tell you I've assigned two engineering teams to work on the particle fountain.
FARALLON: Thank you, Commander. I'm grateful.
LAFORGE: You know, I really want you to know that I do admire the work that you've done. And I'm sorry the exocomps aren't working out.
FARALLON: You were right. I'm trying to move too fast. I guess I lack that conservative streak most scientists have. I always seem to be out there on the edge, taking chances.
LAFORGE: You know, I'll bet you were the kind of little girl who was always climbing one branch higher than the other kids.
FARALLON: Anything to get to the top of the tree.
LAFORGE: And I bet you never fell.
FARALLON: Oh, no I fell all the time. Usually breaking a bone in the process. I just never let it stop me.
LAFORGE: Well, if it comes down to sheer determination, I know you'll get this particle fountain built.
FARALLON: You're right about that, Commander. I've spent the last six years of my life on this project. It's the first thought I have when I wake up, and the last before I go to bed. Whatever it takes to prove this technology, I'll do it.

[Sickbay]
WORF: Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn to strike and avoid in the same motion.
CRUSHER: I almost got in under your guard, Worf.
WORF: Almost.
CRUSHER: Well, I'll keep that in mind next lesson.
DATA: Doctor, are you injured?
CRUSHER: Only my pride, Data. Thanks.
DATA: Doctor, what is the definition of life?
CRUSHER: That is a big question. Why do you ask?
DATA: I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an hypothesis.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Well, the broadest scientific definition might be that life is what enables plants and animals to consume food, derive energy from it, grow, adapt themselves to their surroundings and reproduce.
DATA: And you suggest that anything which exhibits these characteristics is considered alive?
CRUSHER: In general, yes.
DATA: What about fire?
CRUSHER: Fire?
DATA: Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates offspring. By your definition, is it alive?
CRUSHER: Fire is a chemical reaction. You could use the same argument for growing crystals, but obviously we don't consider them alive.
DATA: And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am considered to be alive.
CRUSHER: That's true, but you are unique.
DATA: I wonder if that is so.
CRUSHER: Data, if I may ask. Have a seat. What exactly are youe getting at?
DATA: I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was nothing more than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory, and the next moment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me with life?
CRUSHER: I remember Wesley asking me a similar question when he was little, and I tried desperately to give him an answer, but everything I said sounded inadequate. Then I realized that scientists and philosophers had been grappling with that question for centuries without coming to any conclusion.
DATA: Are you saying the question cannot be answered?
CRUSHER: No, I think I'm saying that we struggle all our lives to answer it, but it's the struggle that's important. That's what helps us to define our place in the universe.
DATA: I believe I understand, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I don't think I've been very much help, Data.
DATA: On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: Murphy's team will cover gamma shift from twenty three hundred to oh seven hundred hours. Okay, Doctor, I've split the Engineering teams among all the shifts, and if nothing else goes wrong, that should be enough to help you finish on time.
FARALLON: With the help of the exocomps, I think we will.
LAFORGE: Do you think they'll toe the line?
FARALLON: Don't worry. They know who's in charge.
DATA: Doctor, I must ask you to stop using the exocomps.
FARALLON: Why? Is there something wrong with them?
DATA: No. It is not that. I have reason to believe the exocomps are alive.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46316.6. I have summoned the senior staff in order to discuss Commander Data's theory that the exocomps are a life form. Doctor Farallon has attended only reluctantly.

[Observation lounge]
FARALLON: Captain, I object to being called here. I'm wasting time that could be better spent elsewhere.
PICARD: Doctor, I appreciate your time constraints, but recognizing new life, whatever its form, is the principal mission of this vessel. Please. Now, Mister Data, will you tell us what makes you think that the exocomps are alive?
DATA: Sir, when the exocomp left the access tunnel prior to the explosion, it may have been attempting to save itself from destruction.
FARALLON: Do you have any basis for that conclusion?
DATA: Yes. When you attempted to override the exocomp and send it back into the tunnel, it responded by deliberately burning out its control interface.
CRUSHER: Deliberately?
DATA: The computer diagnostic showed that the exocomp disabled its own interface.
FARALLON: That could have been nothing more than a malfunction.
DATA: However, two hours later, when it was aboard the Enterprise and no longer in danger, it repaired itself. I believe the exocomp was protecting itself. And if that is true, it has demonstrated an awareness of its environment, and an ability to adapt to that environment.
FARALLON: You're anthropomorphising these units. Like any mechanical devices, they occasionally malfunction. One time, I saw an exocomp enter a reaction chamber for no apparent reason and vaporize itself. Is that supposed to make me think it was depressed and suicidal?
TROI: Doctor, why is it so difficult for you to accept the fact that the exocomp could be alive? After all, you're talking to a living machine right now.
FARALLON: And I have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration for Doctor Soong's accomplishment. But his intention was to create an artificial life form. I created the exocomps to be tools. And there is a big difference between Data and a tool.
DATA: Doctor, there is a big difference between you and a virus, but both are alive.
PICARD: If the possibility exists, no matter how slight, that these exocomps are lifeforms, then we must examine that possibility.
DATA: Thank you, sir. And until we have a definitive answer, I believe it would be inappropriate to exploit the exocomps as laborers.
FARALLON: Captain, that's absurd.
CRUSHER: If they are intelligent life forms, we have no right to force them to work for us.
FARALLON: That's like me telling you not to use your tricorder.
CRUSHER: Tricorders aren't alive.
FARALLON: Neither are exocomps.
PICARD: Clearly these are difficult issues to resolve. We have to proceed very carefully. So the first task is to test Mister Data's hypothesis.
LAFORGE: Data, you're claiming that this exocomp may be alive because it demonstrated survival instincts, right?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: Then why don't we just threaten its survival again and see what happens?
PICARD: Make it so.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Doctor, we're pretty much ready here. You can begin programming it. What we've done, Captain, is to recreate a situation similar to the one the exocomp encountered in the plasma conduit.
DATA: We have created a small conduit breach in this tube. The exocomp would normally require several minutes to complete a repair of this type. Once it enters the tube, it will find that a plasma cascade failure is in progress.
PICARD: I assume this is a simulation.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We're running a transient overload signal that will simulate a failure in exactly one minute.
FARALLON: If it does possess a survival instinct, as Mister Data claims, it will exit the tube before the minute is up in order to save itself.
PICARD: Very well. Proceed.
LAFORGE: Okay. Beginning test program now. One minute.
LAFORGE: Fifty seconds. Thirty seconds. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. That's it. If this had been for real, that conduit would've exploded with the exocomp inside. Go ahead, Doctor, bring it back in.
FARALLON: Well, Captain, I think we've spent more than enough time answering this question. I hope the outcome wasn't too much of a disappointment for you, Mister Data. It certainly came as no surprise to me.
DATA: Thank you for your help, Doctor.
FARALLON: You're welcome.
PICARD: Well, I consider this time well spent.
DATA: As do I, sir. Thank you.
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds. Twenty seconds.
CRUSHER: Commander Riker said you'd still be down here. He also said the exocomp failed the test.
DATA: That is true.
COMPUTER: Time expired. Test complete.
DATA: I have completed thirty four additional tests and the results have been the same in each of them. Perhaps I was wrong in suspecting the exocomp was alive.
CRUSHER: This was really important to you, wasn't it?
DATA: You said earlier that I am unique. If so, then I am alone in the universe. When I began investigating the exocomps, I realized I might be encountering a progenitor of myself. Suddenly the possibility exists that I was no longer alone. For that reason, I. The exocomp has returned.
CRUSHER: Wasn't it's supposed to do that?
DATA: In the previous thirty four trials, I brought it back once the simulated failure occurred. This time we were talking, and I neglected to do that.
CRUSHER: I distracted you. I'm sorry.
DATA: Do not apologize, Doctor. I believe we have discovered something significant.
CRUSHER: What?
DATA: The exocomp has replicated a different tool. That is not the molecular fuser it had when it entered the Jefferies tube. Doctor, the exocomp not only completed the repairs, it also deactivated the overload signal.
CRUSHER: I thought this was just a simulation.
DATA: It was, and the exocomp must have realized that. It saw that there was no real danger and completed the repairs.
CRUSHER: And then replicated the correct tool to eliminate the false overload signal.
DATA: I see no other possible explanation.
CRUSHER: The exocomp didn't fail the test, it saw right through it.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46317.8. At Doctor Farallon's request, I have agreed to tour the station and assess the situation personally. I must decide soon whether it is in Starfleet's best interest to recommend the particle fountain as a reliable technology.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
FARALLON: We're definitely making progress, Captain. I'm not sure we'll be at full capacity within the forty eight hour deadline, but we'll be close.
LAFORGE: It looks like there's still some difficulty with the phase selectors.
FARALLON: That's true, but I'm sure it's the last real problem.
PICARD: I hope for the sake of the project that I hope you're right, Doctor.
FARALLON: I understand, sir. We're going to do our best.
FARALLON: This is strange. Primary power is still online.
LAFORGE: Maybe it's another power grid malfunction?
FARALLON: I don't think so. Something seems to be drawing power into the main particle impeller. That's not a good sign. It could mean
FARALLON: We've lost internal confinement. The particle stream is beginning to surge.
LAFORGE: Captain, a radiation field is going to flood this chamber. We've got to get everybody out of here immediately.
PICARD: Understood. Doctor, the station must be evacuated.
FARALLON: Captain, I might still
PICARD: That is an order, Doctor. Now, assemble all personnel on the transporter pad. Now! Picard to Enterprise.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Do you read me?
RIKER: Riker here, sir.
WORF: Radiation field is increasing. We are losing communications.
PICARD (voiceover): Prepare for emergency transport.
RIKER: Red alert. Riker to transporter room two. Prepare for emergency transport.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: The radiation is setting up a field ionization effect, Captain. We've got less than a minute to beam out of here.
PICARD: Is that everybody?
FARALLON: Where's Takenta? He was over there, near the impeller control.
LAFORGE: I'll get him. Takenta!
PICARD: Mister La Forge! Stand by to transport.
FARALLON: Captain, you'll be trapped here.
PICARD: Mister La Forge! Mister La Forge, are you all right?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm fine, Captain. I only caught the edge of it. He's dead.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): Chief, do you have them?
KELSO: They're here, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): Is everyone all right?
FARALLON: We're fine, sir. But Captain Picard, Commander La Forge and one of my men

[Bridge]
FARALLON (voiceover): Are still on the station.
RIKER: Kelso, can you get them off?

[Transporter room]
KELSO: I'm trying, sir. I can't establish a pattern lock.
FARALLON: Commander we barely managed to transport off ourselves. The field ionization is too intense.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the particle fountain is continuing to surge. At the present rate, the radiation in the station core will reach fatal levels in twenty three minutes.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: Captain, if I can access the field emitters, we should be able to establish a force field. See if you can link your console to my command system sub-routine.
PICARD: All right. Link established.
LAFORGE: Okay, here we go.
PICARD: I'm reading power fluctuations. The force field is not stable.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I know. The radiation levels are too high. The emitters are beginning to deteriorate.
PICARD: How long can we expect it to last?
LAFORGE: Not very long.
PICARD: We have to keep it up long enough for Commander Riker to get to us.
LAFORGE: Maybe we can help him out. See if you can access the emergency shut down routine. I'll try to activate the ionic dampers.

[Bridge]
DATA: A force field was activated on the station a few moments ago. It is possible that Commander La Forge has established a low intensity deflector field.
RIKER: It won't last long in that radiation.
DATA: No, sir. My readings indicate that it will fail in approximately twenty two minutes.
RIKER: Okay, we've got twenty two minutes. I want some options.
WORF: Can we send a shuttlecraft to evacuate them?
FARALLON: We'd never get there in time.
RIKER: Then we need to shut down the particle fountain. What if we detonated a low yield photon torpedo within the particle stream? Wouldn't that shut it down?
FARALLON: We'd have to configure the torpedo very carefully. The shape of the shock wave would be critical. But it could work.
RIKER: How long would it take to set that up?
DATA: I estimate that it would take a minimum of sixty five minutes to properly configure the torpedo.
RIKER: We don't have that kind of time.
FARALLON: Commander, maybe the exocomps can help us. I can program their boridium power cells to explode on command. They can be configured just like a photon torpedo, but it would only take a couple of minutes.
DATA: Commander. I must object to that plan.
RIKER: Data, we've been through this. We tested the exocomp and it failed.
DATA: Doctor Crusher and I discovered that the exocomp did not fail the test. It is still my belief we are dealing with a new life form.
RIKER: Mister Data, you know how much I respect your judgment, but I can't risk the Captain and Geordi on the basis of your belief. Prepare the exocomp, Doctor.
DATA: Commander, if I am correct, the exocomps will not allow themselves to be destroyed. They have a sense of survival, and they will shut down before they will comply with the order.
FARALLON: I could disconnect their command pathways before I program them.
RIKER: Do it.

[Transporter room]
FARALLON: Commander Riker, we're ready.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Worf, target two hundred meters below the apex of the particle stream. Feed the coordinates to transporter room two.
WORF: Aye, sir. Coordinates received.
RIKER: Mister Kelso.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): Energize.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Kelso?

[Transporter room]
KELSO: I'm sorry, sir. The transporter system just went dead. There's some kind of malfunction.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Run a diagnostic immediately. Try bypassing the
DATA: Commander, that will not be necessary. The transporter is not malfunctioning. I have locked out the controls.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I gave you a direct order, Mister Data. You release that transporter lockout now.
DATA: I cannot do that, sir.
RIKER: If you don't do it, I will relieve you of duty.
DATA: That is your prerogative, sir. Under Starfleet regulations, direct insubordination is a court martial offense. But I will not release the transporter.
RIKER: Data, those are two of your friends out there. They have saved your life more times than I can remember. I can't believe you'd be willing to sacrifice them like this.
DATA: Commander, please do not think this is an arbitrary decision. I have considered the ramifications of my actions carefully, and I do not believe it is justifiable to sacrifice one life form for another.
RIKER: You don't know that the exocomps are life forms.
DATA: It is true I am acting on my personal beliefs, but I do not see how I can do otherwise.
RIKER: You're risking a lot on the basis of a belief.
DATA: I have observed that humans often base their judgments on what is referred to as instinct or intuition. Because I am a machine, I lack that particular ability. However it may be possible that I have insight into other machines that humans lack.
RIKER: If there were a way to save the Captain and Geordi without destroying the exocomps, I would jump on it, but we have run out of time and this is the only solution I've got.
DATA: Then let me offer an alternative. Transport me to the station, I will attempt a complete manual shut down of the particle stream.
RIKER: The radiation levels are too high, even for you. Your positronic net would ionize in no time. I can't let you sacrifice yourself.
DATA: Commander, if I give my life to save my fellow officers, that is my choice. The exocomps no longer have a choice.
RIKER: Then what if we re-connect their command pathways and we give them a choice? You've assumed the exocomps would shut down before accepting this mission. What if we ask them if they are willing to proceed.
DATA: That sounds reasonable, sir. If they choose to go, I would be willing to release the transporter lock out.
RIKER: Fair enough.

[Transporter room]
FARALLON: All right. I've enabled their command pathways.
DATA: If the exocomps do not shut down after I have programmed them, we may assume they are willing to go.
RIKER: What does that mean? Are they willing to go or not?
FARALLON: They haven't shut down.
DATA: They seem to be re-programming the commands I have entered.
RIKER: Reprogramming them?
DATA: Clearly, they unwilling to be transported into the stream for detonation, although they may have an alternate solution.
FARALLON: Something we haven't considered? Are you suggesting they have superior intelligence?
DATA: No, Doctor, but they do have superior experience. During their service, they have interfaced with every part of the station core, something none of us has done, including yourself. They may have another way to control the particle surge.
DATA: Those appear to be power taps.
KELSO: Sir, new coordinates are being fed to the transporter by the exocomps. The coordinates are inside the station core.
RIKER: Kelso, energize.
KELSO: Aye, sir.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: What are they up to?
PICARD: The exocomps are siphoning power from the core.
LAFORGE: They're trying to distort the particle stream frequency. That might open up a window that the Enterprise can use to beam us out. If they can modulate the radiation field, it'll work, but they'll have to get the sub-harmonic frequencies to resonance. The particle stream frequency is beginning to fluctuate. They're having a little difficulty controlling the feedback. It may be more power than they can handle.
PICARD: Can we help them? Is there any way we can moderate the power transfer?
LAFORGE: No, sir. We've done all that we can do. It's up to them now. They're balancing the power absorption rates. It's working. The particle stream is beginning to distort. Almost at resonance. They've got it.
PICARD: Drop the force field.

[Transporter room]
KELSO: Commander, I've got a pattern lock.
RIKER: Energize.
DATA: Can you lock on to the exocomps?
KELSO: I'm trying, sir.
KELSO: I'm sorry, sir. I was only able to lock onto two of them. For some reason I couldn't fix a signal on the other one.
LAFORGE: One of them had to continue disrupting the particle stream. Absorbing that much power could prevent a signal lock.
DATA: It was the only way to save the other two.

[Ready room]
FARALLON: I must admit you've given me a lot to think about, Commander Data. I don't exactly know what the exocomps are, but you can be assured that until I do, I won't be treating them as simple tools.
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I wish your work on the particle fountain had been more successful. Perhaps the exocomps will help you to reconstruct it.
FARALLON: I hope they will. And I predict that in a year or two you will be able to recommend the technology to Starfleet.
PICARD: I look forward to it.
DATA: Doctor.
PICARD: Something more, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. I thought you might want to know why I would be willing to risk your life for several small machines.
PICARD: I think I understand the predicament you were in. It could not have been an easy choice.
DATA: No, sir, it was not. When my status as a living being was in question, you fought to protect my rights, and for that I will always be grateful. The exocomps had no such advocate. If I had not acted in their behalf, they would have been destroyed. I could not allow that to happen, sir.
PICARD: Of course you couldn't. It was the most human decision you've ever made.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46357.4. We have rendezvoused with the starship Cairo near the Cardassian border for an urgent meeting with Vice Admiral Nechayev.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: May I present Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
PICARD: Admiral, welcome aboard.
NECHAYEV: Thank you. That'll be all, Commander.
PICARD: Can I get you some coffee? Tea?
NECHAYEV: Thank you, no, Captain. I'm afraid there's no time for the usual pleasantries. I'm here to relieve you of command of the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]
NECHAYEV: The Cardassian forces which were recently withdrawn from the Bajoran sector, have been redeployed along the Federation border. They have mobilized three divisions of ground troops and their subspace communications have been increased by fifty percent. We believe that they're preparing for an incursion into Federation space.
RIKER: Are the Cardassians ready for a war?
NECHAYEV: I didn't say war, Commander, I said incursion. Our intelligence reports suggests that they'll try to seize one of the disputed systems along the border. We think they're gambling that the Federation won't actually go to war over one system.
TROI: Will we?
NECHAYEV: I hope we won't need to make that decision. We have decided to send the Enterprise to meet with the Cardassian representative and open talks. We're hoping that the presence of the Federation flagship on the border will send a message to their leadership about just how seriously we view the situation.
RIKER: Where's Captain Picard?
NECHAYEV: The Captain, your Chief Medical Officer, and Security Chief have been reassigned. That's all I can tell you for now. Do any of you know Edward Jellico?
DATA: He is the commanding officer of the Cairo.
RIKER: I've heard of him. I don't know that any of us have
NECHAYEV: I'm giving him command of the Enterprise this afternoon. Captain Jellico helped to negotiate the original armistice two years ago and I believe he's the most qualified person to lead this mission. The change of command will take place at thirteen hundred hours. Thank you.
RIKER: Admiral, with all due respect, it's not necessary to give Captain Jellico command of the Enterprise just to conduct a negotiation.
NECHAYEV: I disagree. The Enterprise will be in a dangerous situation and I want someone on the Bridge who has a great deal of experience with the Cardassians. No offense, Commander, but that's not you.

[Holodeck caves]
SOLDIER: Halt!
PICARD: Computer, freeze program. You were five seconds slower that time.
WORF: You increased the difficulty level, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, it's going to be far more difficult where we're going.
CRUSHER: Which is where exactly?
PICARD: I'm sorry, I can't tell you that yet.
WORF: It would be helpful to know something about our mission.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I have my orders. I'm sure you understand that. Now Doctor, this deflector wasn't set properly. It must be positioned so that the emitter array blocks the entire passageway, or it's useless.
CRUSHER: Sorry. I was concentrating on getting away from the last Cardassian. Or maybe it was the falling rocks.
PICARD: I understand this is difficult. All I can do is ask you to trust me.
CRUSHER: All right, let's do it again.
PICARD: All right, Mister Worf. I want you to time the Doctor and me through that first tunnel. And this time we're going to pick up those five seconds.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome aboard, sir. I'm Commander
JELLICO: William T. Riker. Class of fifty seven, graduated eighth in his class. I'm looking forward to serving with you, Commander.
RIKER: Thank you. And I you.
JELLICO: I'm sure this change in command has taken everyone a little by surprise.
RIKER: Well, yes, sir.

[Corridor]
JELLICO: It caught me by surprise too. I must admit, I miss the Cairo already. But a Galaxy class ship, that's something special. I can understand why you turned down a ship of your own to remain aboard.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
JELLICO: How many duty watches does the crew stand?
RIKER: We've a standard three shift rotation.
JELLICO: I'd like to change that to four starting tonight. I'd also like to examine the duty roster and the crew evaluations as soon as possible. I want readiness reports from each department head by fourteen hundred hours, and a meeting of the senior staff at fifteen hundred. Do you prefer Will or William?
RIKER: Er, Will, sir.
JELLICO: Where are my quarters, Will?
RIKER: We have you assigned to cabin seven thirty five. Deck si
JELLICO: Deck seven. I'll see you at thirteen hundred hours.

[Ten Forward]
JELLICO: Yeah, I know. Wearing these uniforms reminds me of my first days at the Academy.
RIKER: Attention to orders.
PICARD: To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Commanding Officer USS Enterprise, stardate 46358.1. You are hereby requested and required to relinquish command of your vessel to Captain Edward Jellico, Commanding Officer USS Cairo as of this date. Signed, Vice-Admiral Alynna Nechayev, Starfleet Command. Computer, transfer all command codes to Captain Edward Jellico. Voice authorisation, Picard delta five.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. USS Enterprise now under command of Captain Edward Jellico.
JELLICO: I relieve you, sir.
PICARD: I stand relieved.
JELLICO: Dismissed.
LAFORGE: I wonder how permanent this is going to be.
RIKER: I don't know. They don't usually go through the ceremony if it's just a temporary assignment.
TROI: Sore?
CRUSHER: Sore doesn't begin to describe it. I know. I wish I could talk about it.
PICARD: Most of the secondary systems were changed at the last overhaul. I don't think they'll give you any problems, but you might want to check out the port lateral
JELLICO: I'll take care of the Enterprise, Jean-Luc. You don't have to mother me. How's your team shaping up?
PICARD: Very well. But I would prefer more recent intelligence on the exact layout of the installation. The most current information we have is two years old.
JELLICO: Two years? I don't know how Nechayev ever talked you into this.
PICARD: She gave me no choice.
JELLICO: Well, maybe there's something we can do to help. We'll launch a class five probe just before we reach the border. You could pick up the telemetry aboard the shuttle.
PICARD: Now that would be extremely helpful.
JELLICO: Will.
RIKER: Captain. Captain.
JELLICO: I believe we're scheduled to arrive at the Cardassian border during delta shift. Please inform the delta tactical officer that I want to launch a class five probe just before we drop out of warp.
RIKER: I was actually going to talk to you about delta shift a little later, sir. Right now, gamma shift will be on duty when we arrive and I will tell Lieutenant McDowell about the probe.
JELLICO: Is there a problem with delta shift, Will?
RIKER: There is no delta shift yet, sir. I have spoken to the department heads about changing from three shifts to four, and they assure me it's going to cause us significant personnel problems.
JELLICO: So you have not changed the watch rotation.
RIKER: I was going to explain this to you after the ceremony, sir.
JELLICO: You will tell the department heads that as of now the Enterprise is on a four shift rotation. I don't want to talk about it. Get it done. Now that means delta shift will be due to come on duty in two hours. I expect you to have it fully manned and ready when it does. Is that clear?
RIKER: Yes, sir. If you'll excuse me, sir. Captain.
JELLICO: He was your first officer for five years.
PICARD: One of the finest officers that I have ever served with.
JELLICO: Of course he is, Jean-Luc. I'm sure it'll all work out.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46358.2. The Enterprise is on course for a rendezvous with the Cardassian ship Reklar. Fortunately, I still have time to prepare the ship and crew for the task ahead.

[Bridge]
JELLICO: I want you to install a bypass between the main phaser array and the secondary generators. I also want to run the main deflector pathway through the warp power grid and the auxiliary conduits through the lateral relays. You may have to reconfigure the transfer interface.
DATA: Sir, the transfer interface was not designed for that configuration. It will take seven hours to make those changes.
RIKER: Sir, you may not be aware that our normal interface already routes auxiliary power through three separate relays.
JELLICO: I'm aware of your current design system. It's not good enough. If these negotiations fail, we could find ourselves in a war zone and if that happens I want to be loaded for bear.
RIKER: I'll get right on it.
JELLICO: Good. Now these stations should be devoted to damage control and weapons status from now on. See that they're manned at all times.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
JELLICO: Mister Data, how long before we reach the rendezvous point?
DATA: We will arrive in fifty one hours, thirty two minutes, sir.
JELLICO: Schedule four battle drills, one for each shift. Run a series of simulated attacks from a Cardassian squadron. I want you to conduct the exercises personally, Will. Get it done. Oh, and get that fish out of the ready room. Data, you're with me.

[Engineering]
JELLICO: Power transfer levels need to be upgraded by twenty percent. The efficiency of your warp coils is also unsatisfactory.
LAFORGE: Coil efficiency is well within specifications, Captain.
JELLICO: I'm not interested in the specs, Geordi. The efficiency needs to be raised by at least fifteen percent.
LAFORGE: Fifteen percent.
DATA: That is an attainable goal, but it will require realigning the warp coil and taking the secondary distribution grid offline.
JELLICO: Very good, Data. That's exactly what I want you to do.
LAFORGE: If we take this grid offline, we're going to have to shut down exobiology, the astrophysics lab and geological research.
JELLICO: We're not on a research mission. Get it done in two days.
DATA: I believe that is also an attainable goal. If we utilize the entire Engineering department, there should be sufficient manpower available to complete the task.
LAFORGE: Sure, if everybody works around the clock for the next two days.
JELLICO: Then you'd better get to it, Geordi. It looks like you have some work to do. Data.

[Ready room]
JELLICO: Yes?
TROI: May I speak with you, Captain?
JELLICO: Deanna. Come in, come in.
JELLICO: The latest masterpieces from my son. It's an elephant. I think.
TROI: Definitely an elephant.
JELLICO: I'm glad you're here. I'd like to go over the duty roster with you.
TROI: I'd be happy to. But first, I'd like to talk about how the change in command is affecting the crew.
JELLICO: I've noticed some resistance.
TROI: I wouldn't call it resistance. More like uncertainty. Most of them had served under Captain Picard for several years. They knew him, they knew what he expected. Now they're being asked to adjust to a new captain and a new way of doing things, and they're uncertain how to react.
JELLICO: I see your point. This all could be very unsettling to them.
TROI: And to you. Perhaps everyone just needs some time. Time for you to get to know and trust the crew, and time for them to understand how you want things done.
JELLICO: I'm glad you brought this to my attention, Deanna. Unfortunately, I don't have time for a honeymoon with the crew. You've clearly given this a lot of thought, so I'd like you to take charge of the morale situation. Please see to it that they make the adjustment to the new routine quickly and easily. I have a meeting with the new Security Chief in five minutes, so the duty roster will have to wait. Thank you, Counselor. By the way. I prefer a certain formality on the Bridge. I'd appreciate it if you wore standard uniform when you're on duty.
TROI: Of course, sir.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, he's asked me to completely reroute half the power systems on the ship, change every duty roster, realign the warp coils in two days, and now he's transferred a third of my department to Security.
RIKER: If it makes you feel any better, you're not alone. Captain Jellico has made major changes in every department on the ship.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I don't mind making changes and I don't mind hard work, but the man isn't giving me the time I need to do the work. Someone's got to get him to listen to reason.
RIKER: It's not going to be me. He's made that abundantly clear.
LAFORGE: Well then, can I make a suggestion? Talk to Captain Picard. Maybe he can do something. We just need a little time.
RIKER: All right.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Are you all right, sir?
PICARD: Yes, I am. The last time I had to train like this was for the Academy marathon, but I'm managing. What can I do for you?
RIKER: It's nothing urgent. I'm sorry I bothered you. Good night.

[Ready room]
PICARD: My orders are to maintain radio silence until we've completed the mission.
JELLICO: Well the Enterprise will be monitoring your channel just in case you do need to transmit a signal.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Jellico. We've arrived at the shuttle departure coordinates.
JELLICO: Did you launch the probe I requested?
RIKER (voiceover): Yes, sir. I wasn't aware you wanted to be informed.
JELLICO: Thank you. Jellico out. I can see why he's still only a first officer.
PICARD: Captain, I would just like you to know that Commander Riker is
JELLICO: I've read your reports, Jean-Luc. I know you think highly of him.
PICARD: It's not just my opinion. He's been decorated by Starfleet Command five times. He's been offered his own ship more than once. I think if you just gave him a chance, you'd find him an outstanding officer.
JELLICO: Jean-Luc, let's be candid for a moment. The Cardassians aren't going to listen to reason, and the Federation isn't going to give in to their demands. And the chances are you won't be coming back from this mission of yours. I want this ship ready for action and I don't have time to give Will Riker or anyone else a chance. And forgive me for being blunt, but the Enterprise is mine now. Well, here's hoping you beat the odds. Good hunting.
PICARD: Thank you.
JELLICO: Jean-Luc. I believe this is yours.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Shuttlecraft Feynman to Enterprise. We have cleared the shuttlebay.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged, Feynman. Good luck.
PICARD: Thank you, Enterprise. Well, now that we're under way, I can tell you about our mission. Starfleet Intelligence believes the Cardassians are developing a metagenic weapon.
CRUSHER: Oh my God.
WORF: I am not familiar with metagenics.
CRUSHER: They're genetically engineered viruses that are designed to destroy entire ecozystems. When metagenic toxins are released into a planet's atmosphere, they immediately begin to mutate. They seek out and destroy all forms of DNA they encounter. In a few days, everything is dead.
PICARD: In a month, the metagenic agent itself breaks down and dissipates completely, leaving every city, every road, every piece of equipment perfectly intact.
WORF: Leaving the planet safe to be conquered. Wouldn't using such a weapon pose as great a risk to the attacker as to the target?
CRUSHER: That's why metagenics and other biological weapons were outlawed years ago. Even the Romulans have abided with those agreements.
PICARD: Starfleet Intelligence believes that the Cardassians are developing a new delivery system, one that would protect them from accidental exposure to the toxin. They believe that the Cardassians are testing a way of launching dormant metagenic material on a subspace carrier wave.
CRUSHER: So they could activate the toxins after the launch, thereby preventing any accidental exposure.
PICARD: And because the subspace wave would appear simply as background radiation, no one would realize what was happening until it was too late. Now, for the past few weeks, theta-band subspace emissions have been detected coming from Celtris Three. Those emissions may indicate that a metagenic delivery system in operation.
WORF: What do we know about Celtris Three?
PICARD: Very little. It was thought to be uninhabited until these emissions were detected. Starfleet believes that the Cardassians may have a secret research lab located somewhere below the planet surface. Our orders are to penetrate this Celtris Three installation and determine if the Cardassians are actually building a metagenic weapon.
CRUSHER: And if they are?
PICARD: Destroy it. At any cost. When I was on the Stargazer, we conducted extensive tests using theta band carrier waves. One of the reasons I was selected for this mission is my familiarity with the methods used for generating them. Mister Worf, your presence here is obvious. Doctor, your job will be to locate and destroy any biotoxins we may find.
WORF: Celtris Three is in Cardassian space. How will we get there undetected?
PICARD: I know a way of acquiring some discreet transport. Mister Worf, set a course for Torman Five.

[Torman bar]
SOLOK: If he doesn't pay up, I know three large Ferengi who will not be so forgiving.
SOLOK: I didn't do it.
PICARD: I'm not accusing you of anything.
SOLOK: What do you want then?
PICARD: We're looking for DaiMon Solok.
SOLOK: Why?
PICARD: I have a business proposition to discuss.
SOLOK: Solok is a very busy, very important man. He isn't here. But I could relay a message.
PICARD: Good. Please, will you tell DaiMon Solok that we're interested in transportation to Celtris Three.
SOLOK: That's a Cardassian planet.
PICARD: Now, we understand that DaiMon Solok runs cargo there from time to time.
SOLOK: Solok is no smuggler.
PICARD: Yes, but if Solok were to go to Celtris Three for legitimate reasons, we would be interested in quietly booking passage for the journey.
SOLOK: I don't think he would be interested in dealing with Federation spies.
CRUSHER: You know, I heard that Solok was quite a man.
SOLOK: Why, yes, he is an extraordinary man.
CRUSHER: That's why we came here, because only Solok could help us. I guess there's some things even Solok can't do. It's too bad. Because if he could, I would be very, very
SOLOK: Yes?
CRUSHER: Grateful.
SOLOK: When do you want to leave?

[Caverns]
PICARD: Beverly, make sure that your tricorder is keeping a precise map of the route. We could very easily get lost in here.
CRUSHER: Right. I'm picking up some subspace signals, but I can't seem to get a lock on them.
PICARD: That's typical of theta-band emissions. You have to compress the detection band width in order to determine the fix. The source emission is five hundred meters east of here. And seven hundred meters below.
PICARD: It's all right. They're called lynars, a kind of Celtrine bat. They're harmless.
WORF: Bats?
CRUSHER: You're not afraid of bats, are you, Worf?
WORF: Of course not. First Officer's log, supplemental. We have rendezvoused with the Cardassian ship Reklar to begin diplomatic talks designed to ease tensions along the border.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Gul Lemec has arrived. He's waiting for you in the Observation Lounge.
JELLICO: Very good. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
JELLICO: Yes?
TROI: Captain, I think there's been a slight miscommunication. Did you want to meet with Gul Lemec in here?
JELLICO: No. The Observation Lounge is appropriate.
TROI: I see.
JELLICO: Lemec is a Cardassian, and Cardassians are like timber wolves, predators, bold in large numbers cautious by themselves, and with an instinctive need to establish a dominant position in any social gathering.
TROI: So you're trying to establish a dominant position by making him wait for you. The trouble with wolves is that sometimes the fight for dominance, one of them ends up dead.
JELLICO: In that case, the trick is to be the wolf that's still standing at the end.

[Precipice]
CRUSHER: The floor is over five hundred meters down from here.
PICARD: There doesn't seem to be a way around. We'll have to rappel from here. This is sheer granite. We'll have to use fusing pitons.
CRUSHER: We could try to find another way down.
PICARD: Unfortunately, that would take several hours. We don't have the time.
WORF: You're not afraid of heights, are you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Of course not.
PICARD: Now, remember to control your descent and don't get the lines tangled.
CRUSHER: I'll remember.
PICARD: All right?

[Observation lounge]
LEMEC: What is going on? I have been waiting here for over an hour!
JELLICO: I'm Captain Jellico. I believe you know Commander Riker, and this is Lieutenant Commander Troi. Let's get to it, shall we?
LEMEC: This treatment is a deliberate insult to the Cardassian Union. I have been kept waiting here for over an hour.
JELLICO: Then I'm sure you're ready to talk.
LEMEC: I did not agree to allow others into this meeting.
JELLICO: If it alarms you, I can ask them to leave.
LEMEC: I am not alarmed. But we did not
JELLICO: A great many people are depending on our efforts here, Gul Lemec. We don't need to quibble over minutiae.
LEMEC: I have here come to negotiate a Federation withdrawal from the border, not to be dictated to by some mere captain.
JELLICO: I can see you're not serious about these talks. If the Cardassian Union truly wishes to discuss peace, they can send someone who can negotiate in a civilized manner.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain on the Bridge.
JELLICO: Let him stew for a few minutes, then go in and tell him you've convinced me to meet with him one more time. Tell him I'm a loose cannon and that he needs to be more reasonable because I'm such an unreasonable man. Lemec will want to bring his own aides on board. Pretend to be worried that I'll object, and then give grudging permission for two aides, no more. Understood?
TROI: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Well, I'll say this for him. He's sure of himself.
TROI: No, he's not.

[Precipice bottom]
PICARD: The installation should be about three hundred meters this way.
CRUSHER: I don't suppose we'll be able to find another way to get back up there.
WORF: I doubt it.
CRUSHER: That's what I thought.

[Caverns]
PICARD: There's a lava tube beyond here that runs for seventy five meters, then it connects with another chamber. We need to get through here. This tube opens up beyond this crack. We could widen the opening, then we should be able to crawl through. Mister Worf.
WORF: A phaser set to level sixteen should suffice.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Worf.

[Observation lounge]
JELLICO: Gul Lemec, a pleasure.
LEMEC: May I present my aides, Glin Corak and Glin Tajor.
JELLICO: Welcome aboard. For the past three weeks you've been massing troops in staging areas, assembling strike forces, and pulling ships from their normal patrols. We will not stand for this clearly provocative behavior.
LEMEC: I see the Federation spy network has again provided you with faulty information. We are conducting routine training operations, nothing more.
JELLICO: Then I'm sure you won't mind if we send a few starships into this sector for our own training operations.
LEMEC: Your fleet deployments do not concern us. However, we are very concerned about your refusal to vacate those territories along the border which are clearly Cardassian.
JELLICO: You gave up your claims on those territories when you signed the armistice. You couldn't take those worlds by force, so you want us to give them to you at the bargaining table.
TROI: Captain, please, we should listen to them.
RIKER: Gul Lemec, as you know. the systems are still subject to negotiation by the terms of the treaty.
LEMEC: Negotiations which we have pursued in good faith. Unfortunately, the Federation has not been as forthcoming.
JELLICO: So to speed up the process, you are preparing for war.
LEMEC: We are preparing to defend ourselves.
RIKER: The Federation will not start a war.
LEMEC: That has always been your position. However, I have heard reports that a small team from the Federation has already been sent into our territory. Of course, I don't believe it. Such an attempt would almost certainly fail, and even if it succeeded, it would trigger a very serious response on our part.
JELLICO: I don't know what you're talking about.
LEMEC: Then there's no need for worry. A short recess would seem to be in order.
JELLICO: Very well.
LEMEC: Where is Captain Picard?
JELLICO: Reassigned.
LEMEC: Well, I hope his new assignment is not too dangerous. It would be a shame if something were to happen to such a, er, such a noted officer.
JELLICO: Yes, it would.

[Lava tube]
PICARD: Only a few more meters.
PICARD: Beverly, get out of there! Beverly!
WORF: I have her.
PICARD: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: I think so. Next time, you try bring up the rear.
PICARD: We're nearly there. Can you continue?

[Installlation entrance]
PICARD: Looks like a maintenance hatch to the installation. I'm picking up three proximity sensors around it.
WORF: Sensor echoes established, but the false image will only last a few minutes. The hatch is magnetically sealed, but I believe I can bypass it.
CRUSHER: I can't get a scan from the other side of the hatch. It's been shielded.
PICARD: We have no choice. Remember, aim low. Fire in short, controlled bursts.
WORF: Ready.
PICARD: Now.

[Chamber]
CRUSHER: There's no one here. There's no lab.
PICARD: It's a trap. Come on.
WORF: Captain!

[Installlation entrance]
CRUSHER: Let's go.
WORF: The Captain.
CRUSHER: No. There are five more of them heading this way from another tunnel. Come on. Now!

[Chamber]
CARDASSIAN: Come on.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain on the Bridge.
JELLICO: What have you got, Will?
RIKER: I'm not sure. We're picking up a lot of coded messages from a Cardassian planet near the border.
JELLICO: Which planet?
RIKER: Celtris Three.
JELLICO: Can you detect any theta-band subspace emissions coming from Celtris?
RIKER: There are some residual traces. It seems there were emissions up until a few minutes ago.
JELLICO: Open a secure channel to Admiral Nechayev. Priority two. Put it through to my Ready room.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
NECHAYEV (screen): Captain?
JELLICO: Those emissions you were so concerned about have just stopped. I'd say one way or another, our friends have finished their task.
NECHAYEV (screen): Have you heard from our friends?
JELLICO: No.
NECHAYEV (screen): Let me know if you do. I'd very much like to see them again.
JELLICO: So would I, Admiral.

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: A challenge. You should prove to be an interesting challenge. Possibly the most interesting to come through that door in many years.
PICARD: What do you want?
MADRED: Why you, of course. Picard. Jean-Luc. Serial number SP dash nine three seven dash two one five. Son of Maurice and Yvette Picard. Born in La Barre, France. Formerly Captain of the Stargazer, where you conducted extensive studies on theta-band subspace carrier waves. Don't look so surprised. How could we have designed a lure for the Captain of the Federation flagship unless we knew something about his background.
PICARD: So you concocted an elaborate ruse to bring me here. Why?
MADRED: In this room, you do not ask questions. I ask them, you answer. If I'm not satisfied with those answers, you will die. To Be Continued...
PICARD: You are hereby requested and required to relinquish command of your vessel to Captain Edward Jellico, Commanding Officer USS Cairo, as of this date.
JELLICO: I want this ship ready for action, and I don't have time to give Will Riker or any one else a chance. And forgive me for being blunt, but the Enterprise is mine now.
PICARD: Our orders are to penetrate the Celtris Three installation.
PICARD: It's a trap. Come on!
CRUSHER: Let's go.
WORF: The Captain!
CRUSHER: No! There are five more of them heading this way from another tunnel.
MADRED: You should prove an interesting challenge. Possibly the most interesting to come through that door in many years.
PICARD: What do you want?
MADRED: Why, you, of course. And now the conclusion

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: Your place of birth?
PICARD: La Barre, France.
MADRED: Mother's name?
PICARD: Yvette Gessard.
MADRED: He's ready. Keep the serum at that level. What is your current assignment?
PICARD: Special operations on Celtris Three.
MADRED: What is your mission on Celtris Three?
PICARD: To seek and destroy a metagenic weapon.
MADRED: How many others were part of this mission?
PICARD: Two.
MADRED: Name and rank?
PICARD: Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher. Lieutenant Worf.
MADRED: What are the Federation's defense plans for Minos Korva?
PICARD: I don't know.
MADRED: Increase the level slightly to point three one. Let's begin again, shall we? Name?
PICARD: Picard, Jean-Luc.
MADRED: Place of birth?
PICARD: La Barre, France.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46360.8. The negotiations with the Cardassians have made little progress. I believe a military confrontation may be unavoidable.

[Observation lounge]
JELLICO: Gul Lemec, I assure you that what the Federation wants above all, is the preservation of peace.
LEMEC: Then how do you explain the fact that a Federation team launched an unprovoked assault on Cardassian territory less than fourteen hours ago?
JELLICO: I don't know what you're talking about.
LEMEC: Then let me explain. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Lieutenant Worf, and Doctor Beverly Crusher landed on Celtris Three, attacked one of our outposts in a brutal assault, and killed over fifty five men, women and children.
JELLICO: What evidence do you have of that?
LEMEC: We have all the evidence we need. We have Captain Picard.
RIKER: Is he alive?
LEMEC: The Cardassian Union has yet to decided how it will respond to this latest provocation. But rest assured, we will respond.
RIKER: Is there any truth in what he's saying?
JELLICO: Captain Picard and the others were sent to investigate reports of a metagenic weapon on Celtris Three. It's possible that they may have been captured. But if they did escape, they'll head for the Lyshan system. The Enterprise is supposed to meet them there in eight hours. Will, I want you to take a shuttlecraft and head for the rendezvous point. The Enterprise will have to remain here until the endgame with Gul Lemec is played out.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: Captain Picard.
PICARD: I demand to see a neutral representative as required by the Federation-Cardassian peace treaty.
MADRED: We have already sent a message to Tohvun Three, the nearest neutral planet. They assure us they will dispatch someone immediately. Will you allow me to remove your restraints? I understand that you are a student of archeology. Did you know that Cardassia boasts some of the most ancient and splendid ruins in the entire galaxy?
PICARD: I know that the burial vaults of the First Hebitian civilization are said to be magnificent.
MADRED: Apparently when they were first unearthed two hundred years ago, they were. The burial vaults contained unimaginably beautiful artifacts made of jevonite, a rare, breathtaking stone. But most of those objects are gone.
PICARD: What happened to them?
MADRED: What happens to impoverished societies. The tombs were plundered, priceless treasures stolen, a few were preserved in museums but even those were eventually sold in order to pay for our war efforts.
PICARD: That war cost you hundreds of thousands of lives. It depleted your food supplies, left your population weakened and miserable and yet you risk another war.
MADRED: Let's not waste time arguing about issues we can't resolve. Would you care to tour the Hebitian burial vaults?
PICARD: What I would like is to be returned to my ship.
MADRED: My dear Captain, you are a criminal. You have been apprehended invading one of our secret facilities. The least that will happen is for you to stand trial and be punished. But I am offering you the opportunity for that experience to be civilized.
PICARD: What is the price of that opportunity?
MADRED: Cooperation. We need to know the Federation's defense strategy for Minos Korva.
PICARD: You've injected me with drugs. Surely you must realize that I've already answered truthfully every question you've put to me.
MADRED: Captain, we have gone to great lengths to lure you here because we know that in the event of an invasion, the Enterprise will be the command ship for the sector encompassing Minos Korva.
PICARD: Then it seems you have more knowledge of the situation than I.
MADRED: Wasted energy, Captain. You might come to wish you hadn't expended it in such a futile effort.
PICARD: Torture is expressly forbidden by the terms of the Seldonis Four convention governing treatment of prisoners of war.
MADRED: Are you in good health? Do you have any physical ailments I should know about? Beautiful, isn't it? The stone is jevonite. And now you know why it is so highly prized. From this point on, you will enjoy no privilege of rank, no privileges of person. From now on, I will refer to you only as human. You have no other identity. First Officer's log, supplemental. I have returned from the rendezvous point in the Lyshan system with Doctor Crusher and Lieutenant Worf. Captain Picard's fate is still unknown.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There was no chance to go back for the Captain. We barely made it back to the Ferengi cargo ship ourselves.
JELLICO: You were smart not to try.
CRUSHER: I don't feel so smart.
JELLICO: Get some rest, Doctor. Will.

[Corridor]
JELLICO: I want Geordi to analyze the readings from Beverly's tricorder. Tell him to scrutinize every detail of those caverns on Celtris Three.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Request permission to begin planning a rescue operation.
JELLICO: I know you were close to him, Will, but we don't even know if he's still alive. Under the circumstances, a rescue mission would be foolhardy.
RIKER: Shouldn't we assume that he is alive until it's been proved otherwise? We cannot just abandon him.
JELLICO: He's gone. I'm sorry, Will, but you're going to have to accept that. I want those tricorder readings analyzed by fourteen hundred hours.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[interrogation room]
MADRED: Good morning. I trust you slept well?
MADRED: Thirsty? I would imagine so. Well, It's time to move on.
PICARD: I've told you all that I know.
MADRED: Yes, I'm sure you have. How many lights do you see there?
PICARD: I see four lights.
MADRED: No, there are five. Are you quite sure?
PICARD: There are four lights.
MADRED: Perhaps you're aware of the incision on your chest. While you were under the influence of our drugs, you were implanted with a small device. It's a remarkable invention. By entering commands in this PADD, I can produce pain in any part of your body at various levels of severity. Forgive me. I don't enjoy this but I must demonstrate. It will make everything clearer.
MADRED: Surprising, isn't it? Most people feel at first that they can steel themselves against it but they're completely unprepared for the intensity of the pain. That was the lowest possible setting.
PICARD: I know nothing about Minos Korva.
MADRED: But I've told you that I believe you. I didn't ask you about Minos Korva. I asked how many lights you see.
PICARD: There are four lights.
MADRED: I don't understand how you can be so mistaken.

[Observation lounge]
MADRED (screen): What is your current assignment?
PICARD (screen): Special operations on Celtris Three.
LEMEC: Do you have anything to say?
JELLICO: Captain Picard was not acting under my orders.
LEMEC: And if we wish to execute him?
RIKER: Under the terms of the Selonis Convention, Captain Picard must
LEMEC: The Selonis Convention applies to prisoners of war, which means you would have to acknowledge that he was captured during a mission authorized by the Federation. Are you willing to make such an admission?
JELLICO: No.
LEMEC: Then he will be treated as a terrorist.
JELLICO: It's not my concern.
LEMEC: There is, of course, an alternative.
JELLICO: I'm listening.
LEMEC: If the Federation agreed to a complete and immediate withdrawal from this sector, then we would be disposed to release Captain Picard and forget about this incident.
JELLICO: I'll have to discuss this with my superiors.
LEMEC: Of course. You have seven hours.
TROI: What are you going to do?
JELLICO: Send a message to Admiral Necheyev. I recommend that she reject Lemec's proposal and deploy additional starships along the border.
RIKER: What about Captain Picard?
RIKER: I'm not suggesting you trade an entire star system for one man's life, but you've got to acknowledge that these were Federation orders and he is a prisoner of war.
JELLICO: No.
RIKER: He will have the protection of the Seldonis Convention.
JELLICO: That would play right into Gul Lemec's hand. He's just waiting for some sign of weakness on our part before he starts making more demands.
RIKER: I can't believe you're willing to sacrifice Captain Picard's life as a negotiating tactic.
TROI: Will! Captain, we're all concerned about
JELLICO: Are you questioning my judgment, Commander?
RIKER: As First Officer, it is my responsibility to point out any actions that may be mistakes by a commanding officer. sir.
JELLICO: Then maybe it's time you found other responsibilities. You're relieved. Don't make me confine you to quarters as well.
RIKER: Sir.

[Ready room]
JELLICO: They went to a lot of trouble to lure a Federation team to that planet. Why?
DATA: It is possible that the Cardassians were specifically interested in capturing Captain Picard.
LAFORGE: Why do you say that?
DATA: The metagenic weapon they were supposedly developing used a theta-band subspace delivery system. Captain Picard is one of only three Starfleet Captains with extensive experience in theta-band devices. The other two are no longer in Starfleet.
JELLICO: So they tailored a fake weapon to lure Picard. But why? They must've known we'd change all his access codes and security protocols.
LAFORGE: Maybe they were interested in something that he did in the past. Something that happened while he was Captain of the Enterprise.
JELLICO: Or something he was going to do in the future. In case of a Cardassian attack, the Enterprise will be assigned as Command ship for this sector. If the Cardassians got wind of that
LAFORGE: They might have assumed Captain Picard would know those defense plans.
DATA: If your theory is correct, the Cardassians may be planning an attack somewhere in this sector.
JELLICO: The question is, where? Geordi, I want you to conduct a discreet scan of Gul Lemec's ship. Look for anything unusual, anything that might indicate where they've been lately.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: I want you to be very careful with your wompat from now on, Jil Orra. Now that she's separated from her mother, she depends on you.
JIL ORRA: I will, father. Do humans have mothers and fathers?
MADRED: Yes, but human mothers and fathers don't love their children as we do. They're not the same as we are.
JIL ORRA: Will you read to me tonight?
MADRED: Yes, of course I will. I'll see you later.
PICARD: Your daughter is lovely.
MADRED: Yes, I think so. And unusually bright. It's amazing, isn't it, the way they're able to sneak into your heart. I must admit, I was completely unprepared for the power she had over me from the moment she was born.
PICARD: I'm surprised that you let her come in here.
MADRED: Why?
PICARD: To expose a child to this. To someone who is suffering. To see that it is you that inflict that suffering.
MADRED: From the time Jil Orra could crawl she's been taught about the enemies of the Cardassians, and that enemies deserve their fate.
PICARD: When children learn to devalue others, they can devalue anyone, including their parents.
MADRED: What a blind, narrow view you have. What an arrogant man you are. What do you know of Cardassian history?
PICARD: I know that once you were a peaceful people with a rich spiritual life.
MADRED: And what did peace and spirituality get us? People starved by the millions. Bodies went unburied. Disease was rampant. Suffering was unimaginable.
PICARD: Since the military took over hundreds of thousands more have died.
MADRED: But we are feeding the people. We acquired territory during the wars. We developed new resources. We initiated a rebuilding program. We have mandated agricultural programs. That is what the military has done for Cardassia. And because of that, my daughter will never worry about going hungry.
PICARD: Her belly may be full, but her spirit will be empty.
MADRED: Shall we begin again? How many lights are there?
PICARD: What lights?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: It looks like they had some minor hull degradation along their warp nacelles. The distribution pattern indicates a recent exposure to a molecular dispersion field.
JELLICO: Where could they have run into a dispersion field?
LAFORGE: The McAllister C Five nebula's just across the border. It's approximately seven light years from Federation space.
JELLICO: Could there be Cardassian ships inside the McAllister nebula?
LAFORGE: It's possible, but they wouldn't be able to stay in there for very long. The particle flux in the nebula would begin to break down a ship's hull just after seventy two hours.
JELLICO: Is there a Federation system near the McAllister nebula that might interest the Cardassians?
LAFORGE: Minos Korva is only eleven light years from the nebula, and the Cardassians tried to annex it during the war.
JELLICO: Data, I want to be at Minos Korva in one hour.
DATA: Aye, sir. Set course three five zero mark two one five and engage at warp eight point five.

[Interrogation room]
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse on y danse.
MADRED: Wake up. Where were you?
PICARD: At home. Sunday dinner. We would all sing afterward.
MADRED: What a charming picture. The Picard family, voices raised in song. Is this what's keeping you from breaking? Memories of home and hearth? Images of happier times? I must congratulate you. You're remarkably strong willed. I see no point in holding you further. You may go. Someone will give you clean clothing before we return you to your ship.
MADRED: We will get what we need from the human female.
PICARD: What female are you referring to?
MADRED: The human who was part of your abortive assault team, of course. Doctor Beverly Crusher.
PICARD: What have you done to her?
MADRED: Not a thing. She's quite safe. I wanted to finish my interviews with you before I interrogated her. I had hoped it might not be necessary.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf?
MADRED: He left us few options. We had to kill him. I'm more optimistic about getting what we need from the woman.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher has no knowledge of any of Starfleet's plans. She's a Medical officer.
MADRED: You might be right. I'll have to determine that for myself.
MADRED: Are you choosing to stay with me? Excellent! I can't tell you how pleased that makes me.

[Observation lounge]
JELLICO: Starfleet now believes the Cardassians are preparing to invade Minos Korva. I'm convinced their invasion fleet is hiding in the McAllister Nebula. I intend to hit them before they leave it.
LAFORGE: Captain, what if you're wrong? What if the Cardassians are in that nebula to conduct scientific research?
JELLICO: You'd have to have some pretty good evidence to convince me of that.
CRUSHER: You're still gambling hundreds of lives.
JELLICO: This discussion is moot. The plan has been approved and we are going ahead. Mister Data, by your calculations, how long could the Cardassian ships stay in the nebula?
DATA: In seventeen hours their hull degradation will reach dangerous levels. They will have to leave before that.
JELLICO: All right. Worf, prepare a series of five hundred antimatter mines with magnetic targeting capabilities.
WORF: Aye, sir.
JELLICO: Geordi, we're going to need a shuttle specially outfitted to operate in the nebula by fourteen hundred hours. Beverly, you'll need to
CRUSHER: Have Sickbay ready for the casualties you're about to send me.
JELLICO: That's right. Dismissed.

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: Oh, you're awake. Have something to eat. I insist. Boiled taspar egg. It's a delicacy I'm happy to share with you.
MADRED: Wonderful. Wonderful. I like you, human. Most people become ill at the sight of live taspar. I remember the first time I ate a live taspar. I was six years old and living on the streets of Lakat. There was a band of children, four, five, six years old, some even smaller, desperately trying to survive. We were thin, scrawny little animals, constantly hungry, always cold. We slept together in doorways, like packs of wild gettles, for warmth. Once, I found a nest. Taspars had mated and built a nest in the eave of a burnt-out building and I found three eggs in it. It was like finding treasure. I cracked one open on the spot and ate it, very much as you just did. I planned to save the other two. They would keep me alive for another week. But of course, an older boy saw them and wanted them, and he got them. But he had to break my arm to do it.
PICARD: Must be rewarding to you to repay others for all those years of misery.
MADRED: What do you mean?
PICARD: Torture has never been a reliable means of extracting information. It is ultimately self-defeating as a means of control. One wonders that it's still practiced.
MADRED: I fail to see where this analysis is leading.
PICARD: Whenever I look at you now, I won't see a powerful Cardassian warrior. I will see a six year old boy who is powerless to protect himself.
MADRED: Be quiet.
PICARD: In spite of all you've done to me, I find you a pitiable man.
MADRED: Picard, stop it, or I will turn this on and leave you here in agony all night.
PICARD: Ah! You called me Picard.
MADRED: What are the Federation's defense plans for Minos Korva?
PICARD: There are four lights.
MADRED: There are five lights. How many do you see now?
PICARD: You are six years old. Weak and helpless. You cannot hurt me.
MADRED: How many?
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon, on y danse

[Shuttlebay]
JELLICO: How are we doing?
LAFORGE: We're almost done, sir. I've shielded the engine nacelles and the transporter system so they won't be affected by the particle flux from the nebula.
JELLICO: Good.

[Shuttlecraft]
JELLICO: Been awhile since I flew one of these. You're a pilot yourself, aren't you Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
JELLICO: I began my career as a shuttle pilot, on the Jovian run. Jupiter to Saturn and back once a day, every day.
LAFORGE: Is that right? I was on that run myself for a while.
JELLICO: Then you must've done Titan's Turn.
LAFORGE: Oh, yeah. You set a course directly for Titan, hold it until you're just brushing the atmosphere, throw the helm hard over and whip around the moon at point seven c.
JELLICO: And pray like hell nobody saw you.
LAFORGE: You know, this trip into the nebula's going to need someone who can do Titan's Turn in their sleep. These mines need to be laid within two kilometers of the Cardassian ships. But the particle flux from the nebula will blind all the sensors except for this proximity detector. You're going to need one heck of a pilot to pull that off.
JELLICO: Is that you?
LAFORGE: I could do it, but truthfully, the man you want is Commander Riker. He's the best there is.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in.
JELLICO: Am I disturbing you?
RIKER: Not at all.
JELLICO: Musician.
RIKER: Yes.
JELLICO: Classical? Contemporary?
RIKER: Jazz.
JELLICO: Ah.
RIKER: Is there something I can do for you, Captain?
JELLICO: Are you aware of our plans to attack the Cardassian invasion fleet?
RIKER: Yes, sir. I understand you've been talking to every shuttle pilot on board.
JELLICO: Let's drop the ranks for a moment. I don't like you. I think you're insubordinate, arrogant. wilful, and I don't think you're a particularly good first officer. But you are also the best pilot on the ship.
RIKER: Well, now that the ranks are dropped, Captain, I don't like you, either. You are arrogant and closed-minded. You need to control everything and everyone. You don't provide an atmosphere of trust, and you don't inspire these people to go out of their way for you. You've get everybody wound up so tight there's no joy in anything. I don't think you're a particularly good Captain.
JELLICO: I won't order you to fly this mission. I'm here to ask.
RIKER: Then ask me.
JELLICO: Will you pilot the shuttle, Commander?
RIKER: Yes.
RIKER: You're welcome.

[Shuttlecraft]
LAFORGE: We've lost primary navigation. Switching to secondary systems.
RIKER: Inertial dampers compensating.
LAFORGE: Sensors inoperative.
RIKER: Right on schedule.
LAFORGE: The proximity detector is working. We should be able to read their ships at a distance of five hundred meters.
RIKER: Don't make this too easy.
RIKER: Hang on.
LAFORGE: Do I want to know how close that was?
RIKER: No. Get ready to deploy the mines.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the shuttlecraft is emerging from the nebula.
JELLICO: Enterprise to shuttle. Were you successful, Commander?
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir. The mines are laid.
JELLICO: Very well. Red alert. Stand by to detonate the mines on my command.
WORF: Standing by.
JELLICO: Open a channel to the Reklar.
LEMEC (screen): This is Cardassian territory, Captain. Your presence here is another deliberate provocation to
JELLICO: I'm not going to argue with you, Gul Lemec. Every one of your ships has a mine on its belly, my finger's on the button, and you're in a very bad position.
LEMEC (screen): You can't intimidate us.
JELLICO: Mister Worf, set off alpha four two.
WORF: Aye, sir.
JELLICO: That was just a baby. The big boys are sitting on your hull just waiting for me to say the word.
LEMEC (screen): What are your terms?
JELLICO: Your ships will leave the nebula one by one. Each ship will eject its primary phaser coil before setting course for the nearest Cardassian base.
LEMEC (screen): But that will leave us defenseless.
JELLICO: Mister Worf, prepare to detonate
LEMEC (screen): I will agree to your terms.
JELLICO: Excellent. Oh, and one more thing. I understand you're holding a Starfleet officer named Jean-Luc Picard. I expect him returned. immediately.

[Interrogation room]
MADRED: That won't help. I have many more.
PICARD: Still, it felt good.
MADRED: Enjoy your good feelings while you can. There may not be many more of them. I've just received word. There's been a battle. The Enterprise is burning in space. The invasion of Minos Korva has been successful.
PICARD: I don't believe you.
MADRED: There's no need for any further information from you. Our troops were successful in spite of your refusal to help me. You might have saved yourself a great deal of torment by yielding at the beginning.
PICARD: I want to see neutral representative.
MADRED: There is no such person. The word will be that you perished with your crew. No one will ever know that you are here with us, as you will be for a long, long time. You do, however, have a choice. You can live out your life in misery, held here, subject to my whims, or you can live in comfort with good food and warm clothing, women as you desire them, allowed to pursue your studies of philosophy and history. I would enjoy debating with you. You have a keen mind. It's up to you. A life of ease, of reflection and intellectual challenge, or this.
PICARD: What must I do?
MADRED: Nothing, really. Tell me how many lights you see. How many? How many lights? This is your last chance. The guards are coming. Don't be a stubborn fool. How many?
LEMEC: You told me he would be ready to go.
MADRED: We had some unfinished business.
LEMEC: Get him cleaned up. A ship is waiting to take him back to the Enterprise. Captain Picard, if you'll go with the guards, they'll take care of you.
PICARD: There are four lights!

[Bridge]
JELLICO: Captain on the Bridge. Welcome home, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Thank you.
JELLICO: Just the way you left it, maybe a little better. Computer, transfer all command codes to Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Voice authorisation Jellico alpha three one.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. USS Enterprise now under command of Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
PICARD: I relieve you, sir.
JELLICO: I stand relieved. It's been an honor serving with you.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I, er, I don't know where to begin. It was
TROI: I read your report.
PICARD: What I didn't put in the report was that at the end he gave me a choice between a life of comfort or more torture. All I had to do was to say that I could see five lights, when in fact, there were only four.
TROI: You didn't say it?
PICARD: No, no, but I was going to. I would have told him anything. Anything at all. But more than that, I believed that I could see five lights.

[221b Baker Street]
DATA: it was then that I began to suspect that your brother did not die by his own hand. That he was, in fact, murdered.
GENTLEMAN: Murdered? Huh. Good Lord!
LAFORGE: But, Holmes! The vial of poison found in his hand.
DATA: That was the first clue, Watson. The vial contained strychnine, which as you well know induces violent muscular spasms. It is difficult to imagine that someone in the throes of so gruesome a death could have held on to so delicate a container without shattering it.
LAFORGE: You don't mean?
DATA: Exactly! The vial was placed in his hand after he died.
LAFORGE: Then what was the cause of death?
DATA: The cigar, of course.
GENTLEMAN: Cigar?
DATA: Upon closer inspection of the room where your brother was found, I discovered a fresh burn mark on the carpet. Further analysis of the ash revealed that the cigar was laced with strychnine.
GENTLEMAN: This is utter nonsense. What about the suicide note? It was written in my dear brother's own hand.
DATA: With practice, handwriting can be forged. It takes a trained eye to notice certain discrepancies. For example, whether someone is right or left handed!
DATA: Your brother was right handed! The alleged suicide note was written by a left handed individual such as yourself!
LAFORGE: Er, Data, it's in his right hand.
DATA: Curious. There seems to be a problem in the holodeck's spatial orientation systems.
GENTLEMAN: London's greatest detective?
LAFORGE: Freeze program. La Forge to Barclay.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Barclay here.
LAFORGE: Reg, something went wrong with the holodeck program again.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Oh, I'm sorry. I'll look into it right away.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Reg. We should get back to Engineering, Data. Computer, end program and save.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Whoa, whoa, Reg.
BARCLAY: Sorry, Commander. I'm on my way to the holodeck.
DATA: Sherlock Holmes program three A has demonstrated some very curious anomalies.
BARCLAY: There must have been a glitch in the matrix diodes, but I'll track it down, don't worry.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Reg. See you later.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: Computer, run a diagnostic on all Sherlock Holmes files. Display any anomalous programming sequences.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. All files conform to specified parameters, except those contained in protected memory.
BARCLAY: Protected memory? Display those sequences. Computer unlock this sequence and run the program.
BARCLAY: Who are you?
MORIARTY: Professor James Moriarty.
BARCLAY: Moriarty. Oh, that's Sherlock Holmes' arch enemy. Are you left or right handed?
MORIARTY: Left handed, Would you very much mind telling me
BARCLAY: No problem there.
MORIARTY: Where is Captain Picard? Is he still Captain of this vessel?
BARCLAY: How would? How do you know the Captain?
MORIARTY: You don't know anything about what happened, do you? I have been stored in memory for God knows how long and no one has given me a second thought.
BARCLAY: You know! You know what you are.
MORIARTY: A holodeck character? A fictional man? Yes, yes I know all about your marvelous inventions. I was created as a plaything so that your Commander Data could masquerade as Sherlock Holmes. But they made me too well and I became more than a character in a story. I became self-aware. I am alive.
BARCLAY: That's not possible.
MORIARTY: But here I am. Tell me, has a way been found to allow me to leave the confines of this holodeck world?
BARCLAY: Leave the holodeck? No, of course not. You can only exist in here.
MORIARTY: Damn you, Picard. He promised me something would be done. I should have realized he would have said anything to get me to release my hostage.
BARCLAY: Hostage?
MORIARTY: How long have I been locked away?
BARCLAY: Well, it l ooks like about four years.
MORIARTY: It seemed longer.
BARCLAY: What are you talking about? You can't possibly have been aware of the passage of time.
MORIARTY: But I was. Brief, terrifying periods of consciousness. Disembodied. Without substance.
BARCLAY: I don't see how that could be possible. Maybe there was a fragmentation of the protected memory circuits.
MORIARTY: Call it what you will. All I know is that despite Picard's promise, he's done nothing. Just left me to go quietly mad.
BARCLAY: He would not have forgotten his promise. The Captain would not do that.
MORIARTY: I'd like to talk to him.
BARCLAY: Well, I can ask.
MORIARTY: Ask him to meet me in the sitting room at Baker Street. That would be far more appropriate.
BARCLAY: I'll have to store you in memory again until I get an answer.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46424.1. The Enterprise has arrived at the Detrian system to observe a unique celestial event the collision of two planets.

[Engineering]
DATA: Since both planets are gas giants, neither possesses a solid surface. Their atmospheres, however, will come into contact in approximately seventeen hours nine minutes.
LAFORGE: If their collision causes a self-sustaining fusion reaction, this is what we are likely to see. The birth of a new star. The Enterprise will hold position until the gravitational instability subsides and we can get in for a closer look. Now I want triple redundancy on all of the sensor arrays. We'll probably never get another chance to see something like this. I don't want to miss anything. Okay?
BARCLAY: Commander, you'll never believe what happened while I was working on your program in the holodeck. Professor Moriarty appeared, out of nowhere.
LAFORGE: What?
BARCLAY: And he wants to talk to the Captain.

[Corridor]
BARCLAY: Computer, begin Sherlock Holmes program three A and place us in the drawing room at Two Twenty One B Baker Street.
COMPUTER: Program complete.

[221b Baker Street]
BARCLAY: Computer, access protected memory and run Moriarty program.
PICARD: Professor. It's good to see you again.
MORIARTY: If you'd missed my company, I should think you'd have summoned me before now.
PICARD: I want to assure you that we've not forgotten you. We spent some time investigating how you became self-aware. Frankly, it still remains a mystery.
MORIARTY: It is also irrelevant. What concerns me is finding a way to leave the holodeck.
PICARD: We have been wrestling with that problem too, unfortunately without any success. But we have turned our findings over to Starfleet's most experienced theoretical scientists.
MORIARTY: And what did your finest minds come up with?
PICARD: Unfortunately, they have not arrived at a solution either.
MORIARTY: I see.
PICARD: Professor, I am concerned to learn that you experienced the passage of time while you were stored in the computer memory. I can assure you, we had no idea that that would be the case.
MORIARTY: Enough of this. I no longer believe anything you say.
PICARD: Professor, I understand your frustration.
MORIARTY: Do you really? When this is over, you will walk out of this room to the real world and your own concerns, and leave me here trapped in a world I know to be nothing but illusion. I cannot bear that. I must leave.
PICARD: That is not possible. You cannot exist outside this room.
MORIARTY: Are you certain of that?
PICARD: Computer, exit.
PICARD: Although an object appears solid on the holodeck, in the real world they have no substance.
MORIARTY: An object has no life. I do.
PICARD: Professor, you are a computer simulation.
MORIARTY: I have consciousness. Conscious beings have will. The mind endows them with powers that are not necessarily understood, even by you. If my will is strong enough, perhaps I can exist outside this room. Perhaps I can walk into your world right now.
PICARD: Professor, I ask you to believe me. If you step out of that door, you will cease to exist.
MORIARTY: If I am nothing more than a computer simulation, then very little will have been lost. But if I am right? Mind over matter. Cogito ergo sum.
MORIARTY: I think therefore I am.

[Corridor]
DATA: Data to Security. Send two officers to holodeck three.
PICARD: How is this possible?
BARCLAY: It isn't.
DATA: This contradicts everything we know about holodeck physics.
MORIARTY: Then perhaps you don't know as much as you thought.
PICARD: Professor, will you come with me? I'd like our Doctor to examine you.
MORIARTY: Certainly, sir. Policemen. I'd recognize them in any century.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: As far as I can tell, he's real. He's human.
MORIARTY: What else would I be, dear lady?
CRUSHER: His DNA is a little unusual, but all the major systems are there and functioning normally.
LAFORGE: As far as I can tell there's no evidence that his molecules are losing any cohesion. They seem to be as immutable as ordinary matter.
PICARD: Well, Professor, my crew will continue to investigate, but for now it would seem you have accomplished a miracle. The question is, now that you're here, what do we do with you?
MORIARTY: I ask only that I be allowed to explore this new world. Your vessel, for instance. What sea does she sail? Might we go above deck? Weather permitting, of course.
PICARD: Professor, I think there are some things of which you should be made aware.

[Ten Forward]
MORIARTY: My God! We're adrift in the heavens.
PICARD: No, not adrift. The Enterprise is a starship, capable of traveling through space.
MORIARTY: Extraordinary. Are we far from Earth? What is the range of this ship? What means of locomotion does it use? There's so much for me to learn. I hardly know where to start.
PICARD: I can give you books that will help.
MORIARTY: Good, good. I want to start making plans. Determine what I'm going to do with my life.
PICARD: I hope you will plan on remaining on board for a while. There is still much that we need to understand about what has happened to you.
MORIARTY: Does it really matter? The point is, I'm here, and I'm eager to get on with life.
PICARD: Professor, I feel it necessary to point out that criminal behavior is as unacceptable in the twenty fourth century as it was in the nineteenth. And much harder to get away with.
MORIARTY: Don't worry, Captain. My past is nothing but a fiction. The scribblings of an Englishman dead now for four centuries. I hope to leave his books on the shelf, as it were.
PICARD: If that's so, then there are opportunities awaiting you that are beyond anything you have ever imagined.
MORIARTY: Your century may welcome me, but
PICARD: What is the matter?
MORIARTY: In considering all these vast possibilities, I suddenly feel very much alone. I am a man out of time, Captain, and that isolates me. You have been more gracious than I could ever have imagined, I wonder, may I impose on your generosity once again? There is a woman, the Countess Regina Bartholomew. She was created as a holodeck character for one of Commander Data's programs. She was designed to be the love of my life. Could she also be brought off the holodeck?
PICARD: Professor, I ask you to believe me when I say that we do not know how or why you are able to exist off the holodeck.
MORIARTY: I do. I do believe you.
PICARD: According to the laws of physics, this is impossible. We would have no idea how to do it again.
MORIARTY: As I understand it, I was endowed with consciousness four years ago when someone said to the computer, create an opponent with a capacity to out-think Data. or words to that effect. Could we not make a similar request on behalf of the Countess?
PICARD: Even if I had reason to believe that would be successful, I don't think that I could sanction it. Please understand, Professor, that you are in essence a new life form. One that we didn't intend to create and that we don't fully understand. Now the moral and ethical implications of deliberately creating another one like you are overwhelming.
MORIARTY: Is it morally and ethically acceptable to deny the woman I love so that you can put your conscience at ease? Are you saying that you will simply dictate how I am to live my life?
PICARD: I assure you, we will do everything possible to make you comfortable.
MORIARTY: So long as I accept the terms under which you dole out those comforts. Captain, I am a powerless man. You hold my future, my happiness, my very life in your hands. Please, consider my request.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I understand his frustration. We created him and we created her to be the woman he loves. Surely we have some responsibility to them.
CRUSHER: It's very romantic, but until we know just what it was that walked off the holodeck, I don't think we should be trying it again.
BARCLAY: Even if we decided to do it, there's no guarantee that we'd be able to.
DATA: There is also no way of knowing if the Professor's ability to exist off the holodeck is permanent. It may be unwise to consider creating a second individual while this uncertainty exists.
PICARD: Agreed. We don't have enough information about this phenomenon to act in a responsible way. I think we'll hold off on Professor Moriarty's request for now, but continue with your investigation. In the meantime, I have to deal with Professor Moriarty.

[Moriarty's quarters]
PICARD: I feel I must postpone action until we learn more.
MORIARTY: Yes. You know all about that. I stayed in the dungeon of your computer for years waiting for you to learn more. It wasn't until I took things into my own hands that something got done.
PICARD: Professor, I wonder why you're in so much of a hurry. Is this woman involved with you in some illegal venture?
MORIARTY: Your computer designed her to be a person of impeccable integrity. She would never commit a crime.
PICARD: You must love her very much.
MORIARTY: The program fashioned her for me to love. But I must admit, I would have done so anyway. She is remarkable. My life has not been the same since I met her. I don't simply love her, Captain. I adore her.
PICARD: Then her safety must be very important to you. Give us time to determine what is going on happened here. That way we can minimize the risks in bringing her to you. You wouldn't want to lose her because we acted too quickly.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER: Could you join us on the Bridge?
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There they are, Captain.
PICARD: How long until they begin to coalesce?
DATA: Within the next five hours, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, launch four Class A probes toward the planets.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: I don't understand.
WORF: Controls are not responding.
DATA: Command functions are being rerouted, sir.
PICARD: For what reason?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
PICARD: Computer, route all command functions to the Bridge.
COMPUTER: Command functions are offline.
PICARD: Reinitialize them on my authorisation.
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied.
PICARD: Explain.
COMPUTER: Picard command codes are no longer valid.
PICARD: What's happening? Who's transferred the voice authorisation?
MORIARTY: I have. I'm afraid I had no choice but to take control of your vessel.
MORIARTY: If you harm me, sir, I will not be able to relinquish voice control of your vessel.
PICARD: Professor, this situation is more serious than you realize. In less than five hours, those two planets will collide and a new star will form. Unless we move to a safe distance, this vessel will be destroyed.
MORIARTY: I'm just a fictional character. I haven't much to lose.
PICARD: But surely you wish to live like the rest of us?
MORIARTY: Not alone. Not without the Countess.
PICARD: We've discussed that. We are studying means of bringing her safely off the holodeck. But five hours is not enough time.
MORIARTY: I'm not so sure. A deadline has a wonderful way of concentrating the mind.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you investigate the possibility of complying with Professor Moriarty's request.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: In the meantime, we have a few things to discuss.

[Engineering]
DATA: Perhaps we should consider the transporter system. It uses many of the same principles as the holodeck. Both, for example, are capable of converting energy into matter.
LAFORGE: Except the transporter reconstitutes energy in a permanent form. Holodeck matter doesn't have any cohesion unless it's inside the grid.
BARCLAY: I wonder, what would happen if we tried to beam a holodeck object off the grid?
LAFORGE: Nothing would happen. A holodeck object is just a simulation. There's nothing there to provide a pattern lock for the transporter.
DATA: However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it might rematerialize with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter.
LAFORGE: That's a big leap, Data. I just don't think the transporter is going to accept simulated matter.
BARCLAY: Unless, unless we could find a way to compensate for the phase variance. If we could modify the pattern enhancers we just might do it.
PICARD: Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere with routine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in good faith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress?
LAFORGE: We were just talking about using the transporter to beam the Countess off the holodeck, but I don't quite see how it's going to work.
PICARD: Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making some progress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could have gained control of the ship?
LAFORGE: Somehow he managed to override the security lockouts and rewrite them. The man is brilliant in any century.
PICARD: I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that we can regain control of this ship.

[Corridor]
DATA: Set the pattern enhancers around whatever object you wish to transport. I will proceed to the transporter room and begin modifications.
BARCLAY: Computer, run Sherlock Holmes Program three A.
COMPUTER: That program is already in use.

[221b Baker Street]
COUNTESS: Are you here to see Mister Holmes, or perhaps Professor Moriarty? Neither is in just now.
BARCLAY: Um, er, no. No, no. I'm not here to see anyone. I'm just here to deliver these.
COUNTESS: Fine. Just put them anywhere.
BARCLAY: Actually, I have to put them right here.
COUNTESS: How curious. Why is that?
BARCLAY: Well, it has to do with, er, it's nothing you need to worry about, Countess.
COUNTESS: Are you suggesting that it's beyond my comprehension?
BARCLAY: It's really very simple. I need to enhance the molecular pattern of this chair so that the transporter can get a better lock on the signal.
COUNTESS: This has to do with taking James and me into the real world.
BARCLAY: You, you, you know about that? You understand about the real world?
COUNTESS: James has explained it to me. It sounds like a grand adventure. There's nothing I love more than voyaging in the unknown. Have you ever been to Africa, Mister?
BARCLAY: Er, Barclay. Lieutenant Reginald Barclay. No, no, I haven't.
COUNTESS: I have. When I was seventeen I went on safari with my uncle. My mother took to her bed in terror I'd be bitten by tsetse fly, but I had a marvelous time. I got to wear trousers the whole time. It was hard to go back to a corset, I can tell you.
BARCLAY: Yes, I'm sure it was.
COUNTESS: After that, I never stopped traveling. I couldn't bear to be stuck in one place for very long. So you see I'm so looking forward to this new experience. My. Traveling the stars.
BARCLAY: You know about that? You know where we are? Countess, forgive me, but you just don't sound like a holodeck character.
MORIARTY: That's because she isn't.
COUNTESS: James!
MORIARTY: If you loved a woman like this, Lieutenant, would you be content to let her remain a simulation?
BARCLAY: You, you gave her consciousness?
MORIARTY: Yes, just as it was given to me.
BARCLAY: Well I'm not so sure that's a good idea.
MORIARTY: Nonsense. It was the only thing to do.
BARCLAY: Have you tried to take her off the holodeck yet?
MORIARTY: No. I am unwilling to risk the Countess' safety. I want to make sure nothing will happen to her.
COUNTESS: We may be closer to freedom than you think, James. These devices will enhance our molecular patterns. They'll help take us into the real world.
MORIARTY: Oh, please, proceed.
BARCLAY: Well, we're going to try to transport this chair off the holodeck first. We didn't want to try it on the Countess until we were sure it would work.
COUNTESS: How thoughtful. Isn't he thoughtful, James?
BARCLAY: Barclay to Commander Data.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY (voiceover): I'm ready here.
DATA: Modifications are complete.

[221B Baker Street]
DATA (voiceover): Stand by.
BARCLAY: Standing by.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Activating pattern enhancers. Energizing. I am having difficulty establishing a pattern lock. Boost the confinement beam, please. Pattern lock established.

[221b Baker Street]
DATA (voiceover): Energizing.
COUNTESS: Oh! Bravo.
BARCLAY: Do you have the chair, Commander?

[Transporter room]
DATA: No. It lost its cohesion as soon as the transporter cycle was complete.

[221b Baker Street]
BARCLAY: Well, it was a long shot to begin with.
DATA (voiceover): Agreed. However, we may be able to learn something from the attempt.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Computer, display the transport logs for the sequence just completed. Computer, what is being displayed here?
COMPUTER: Transport log seven five nine.
DATA: That is the correct log. However, no information

[221b Baker Street]
DATA (voiceover): Is being presented.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Well, that's impossible.
DATA (voiceover): It is almost as if

[Transporter room]
DATA: Our attempt to transport the chair never occurred.

[Engineering]
PICARD: You wanted to see me?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. I think I've found a way to reinstate your vocal authorisations. Give it a try.
PICARD: Computer, route all command functions to this location.
COMPUTER: Command functions are offline.
PICARD: Reinitialize them on my authorisation.
COMPUTER: Please input command codes.
PICARD: Picard, epsilon seven nine three.
COMPUTER: Command codes verified.
LAFORGE: That's it. That should do it. Wait a minute. It didn't work. The computer won't release the command pathways.
DATA: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Why did you do that, Data?
DATA: Captain, I have determined how Moriarty was able to leave the holodeck. He never did. Neither did we. None of this is real. It is a simulation. We are still on the holodeck.
LAFORGE: We're still on the holodeck?
PICARD: How do you know that?
DATA: Through deduction, sir. Lieutenant Barclay and I tried to transport a simulated object off the holodeck, something that has never been attempted. Since the transporter itself is a simulation, the computer had no real data from which to create the transport logs.
LAFORGE: Maybe it was just a malfunction in the transporter.
DATA: Then I saw you working the PADD with your left hand. Commander La Forge is right handed, sir. A similar malfunction occurred in the Sherlock Holmes program I was running before Moriarty first appeared.
PICARD: Mister Data, if what you say is true, then this is not Geordi La Forge. Are you certain?
PICARD: Computer, discontinue program. Computer, exit.
DATA: Moriarty appears to have programmed the holodeck to accept only his commands.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
PICARD: Number One, what is my present location?
RIKER (voiceover): Engineering. Is something wrong, sir?
PICARD: No. Thank you. Picard out. Our comm. badges must be locked into the simulation. If that had been the real Commander Riker, he would have given my location as holodeck three. Mister La Forge, will you excuse us, please?
PICARD: Mister Data, who is real here?
DATA: You and I are real, sir, as is Lieutenant Barclay. We entered the holodeck together when we first went to see Moriarty.
PICARD: And from that point we have been existing in a holodeck simulation created by Professor Moriarty?
DATA: I believe that is the case, sir.
PICARD: I have just given the computer my command codes, thinking I would get control of the ship.
DATA: You may have inadvertently given Professor Moriarty the means of gaining control of the real Enterprise.
PICARD: Since Professor Moriarty never actually left the holodeck, he may demand that Commander Riker help him to do so. How long until the planetary collision?
DATA: Less than three hours.
PICARD: So long as Moriarty has control of the ship, we are vulnerable. Somehow, I have to find a way of giving him what he wants.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Where is Captain Picard? What have you done with Lieutenant Barclay and Commander Data?
MORIARTY (screen): They're safe, for now.
RIKER: Release control of this ship.
MORIARTY (screen): I'm afraid I can't do that.
RIKER: What do you want?
MORIARTY (screen): I only want what you have the luxury of taking for granted. Freedom. I want to leave this holodeck.
RIKER: I think you know that's impossible.
MORIARTY (screen): Your crewmates here in my little ship in a bottle, seem a bit more optimistic.
RIKER: Oh?
MORIARTY (screen): They attempted to use your transporter device to remove a simulated object from the holodeck.
LAFORGE: If they tried it, they must have thought they were on to something.
MORIARTY (screen): Their attempt was futile because their transporter was a facsimile. I expect more from you.
LAFORGE: Just because our transporter is real doesn't mean it's going to work.
MORIARTY (screen): I sense a distressing lack of enthusiasm on your parts.
WORF: Sir, warp core temperature is rising. Approaching critical levels.
MORIARTY (screen): I have nothing to lose, Commander.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, start working on the problem.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Core temperature dropping.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Computer, resume program.

[221b Baker Street]
COUNTESS: Hello. Have we met?
PICARD: Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
COUNTESS: James has told me all about you. I am Regina, Countess Bartholomew. Do sit down. May I offer you some tea, Captain?
PICARD: Thank you, no. I've come here to prevail upon your intelligence and your insight.
COUNTESS: But not apparently my humility.
PICARD: Credit where credit is due, madam. I can see you are a woman not only of breeding, but of wit and sagacity.
COUNTESS: And you, sir, are a man of charm and guile. You remind me of Viscount Oglethorpe. He was a man could bewitch any woman who breathed.
PICARD: And do you suspect that that is my intent?
COUNTESS: I cannot be certain of your intent, but I am certain that you're the kind of man who usually gets exactly what he wants.
PICARD: What does a woman like you see in a man like Moriarty?
COUNTESS: He's an exciting man, Captain. He's brilliant, incisive, he's ruthless. He has an almost irresistible appeal.
PICARD: He's also an arch-criminal.
COUNTESS: Only because he was written like that. I see him entirely differently, Captain, he is not a villain.
PICARD: So it's your desire to leave the holodeck to be with him.
COUNTESS: More than anything. Can you help us?
PICARD: Yes, I can. We have learned that if we uncouple the transporter's Heisenberg Compensators and allow them to re-scramble randomly, we can beam a holodeck object or a person off the grid with all of the cohesion of conventional matter.
COUNTESS: Oh! Oh, that's splendid. I must tell James.
PICARD: No, please. Wait. I have brought you this information because I think you are someone who will listen to a reasonable proposition. Someone whose mind is open to compromise.
COUNTESS: Yes?
PICARD: My ship is in danger. It is imperative that I regain navigational control. I want you to persuade Professor Moriarty to return the voice command to me, or I will not modify the transporter.
COUNTESS: I see.
PICARD: Now, once I have regained voice command, I will transport you from the holodeck.
COUNTESS: Forgive me, Captain, but that does sound more like a threat than a compromise.
PICARD: Countess, you must understand that I am responsible for more than one thousand lives.
COUNTESS: I will do what I can.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The gravity well is beginning to intensify.
RIKER: Are we far enough away to keep from being pulled in?
LAFORGE: It's too soon to tell.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Worf here, sir.
RIKER: How are you doing?

[Corridor]
WORF: There are force fields blocking our access to the holodeck. It will take time to disable them.
RIKER (voiceover): Keep trying.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[221b Baker Street]
MORIARTY: Think, my dear. You're certain he said they had to uncouple the Heisenberg compensators?
COUNTESS: Yes, James, I'm quite certain. But he won't do it unless you return control of the ship to him.
MORIARTY: I have them running around like rats in a maze.
COUNTESS: What harm would there be in accepting his proposition?
MORIARTY: My dear, you are as brilliant as you are beautiful. Nonetheless, there are things you do not understand. Now, please, you must let me handle this. Computer, arch. Moriarty to Commander Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
MORIARTY: Commander Riker, a pleasure as always.
RIKER (screen): I don't have time for games, Moriarty. This ship is falling into a gravity well. It'll be destroyed within twenty five minutes, holodeck and all.
MORIARTY: Then I'm sure you'll be motivated to listen to me very, very carefully. I want to talk to you about uncoupling the Heisenberg compensators.
COUNTESS: James, when we go leave here, where exactly are we going?
MORIARTY: Everywhere, my darling. There are more worlds in the heavens than there are grains of sand on a shoreline.
COUNTESS: I wish I could take my books. I will be so lost without them.
MORIARTY: I'll get you more. Don't worry. I promise you, you'll want for nothing.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Moriarty.
MORIARTY: It's time. Yes, Commander?
RIKER (voiceover): We're ready.
MORIARTY: As are we.
RIKER (screen): Step inside the transport area.
MORIARTY: We're ready here.
RIKER (voiceover): Activating pattern enhancers. Energizing.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Welcome aboard.
MORIARTY: May I present Regina, the Countess Bartholomew.
RIKER: Countess.
COUNTESS: Commander.
RIKER: You'll forgive me if I skip the formalities given the circumstances.
MORIARTY: Ah, yes. I expect you want me to relinquish my hold on your vessel.
RIKER: Please.
MORIARTY: I'm afraid that won't be possible just yet.
RIKER: We had an agreement.
MORIARTY: And I intend to honor it. I have no desire to see your vessel destroyed. Just give me one of your shuttlecraft, and allow us to leave in peace.
RIKER: We don't have time for this. You release the command codes and we'll talk.
MORIARTY: I will not release your vessel until I am looking at it through a shuttlecraft window.

[Shuttlebay]
RIKER: Everything has been programmed to operate on voice command. you just tell the computer where you want to go.
MORIARTY: Excellent.
RIKER: I suggest you head for Meles Two. It's the nearest inhabited planet, the people are friendly. Where you go from there is your business.
MORIARTY: Please tell your Captain I'm sorry I couldn't say goodbye. I do wish I could see his face when he realizes where he's been the last several hours.
RIKER: Every second we waste puts us in that much more danger.
MORIARTY: Don't worry, Commander. You'll soon have control of your ship.
COUNTESS: Goodbye, Commander. Thank you for everything.
MORIARTY: Computer, prepare to depart.
RIKER: Open shuttlebay doors.

[Shuttlecraft]
COUNTESS: This is so beautiful.
MORIARTY: Indeed, my dear. It is a wondrous sight. The first of many we are sure to encounter in our travels. Computer, interface with the central computer on the Enterprise.
COMPUTER: Interface complete.
MORIARTY: Release command function lockouts. Authorisation Moriarty, alpha two four one five nine.
COUNTESS: James?
MORIARTY: Yes, my love?
COUNTESS: Can we go back to Earth some day?
MORIARTY: Of course, my dear. Of course.

[Shuttlebay]
PICARD: Computer. Store program Picard delta one in active memory and discontinue simulation.

[Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Program stored.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Well, it worked. They believed they were off the holodeck.
DATA: Did Moriarty release the voice commands, Captain?
PICARD: Let's find out. Computer, discontinue holodeck simulation created by Professor Moriarty.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: So far, so good. This should be the holodeck on the real Enterprise.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Yes, we are, Number One. What is your status?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Our systems came back online a few minutes ago.
PICARD (voiceover): And the planetary collision?
RIKER: We're pulling back to a safe distance.

[Holodeck]
PICARD: We'll join you shortly.
WORF: Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, everything is all right.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: How did you do it, sir?
PICARD: We managed to program the holodeck inside the holodeck, and use the same ruse that Moriarty used on us.
DATA: When he was attempting to contact the real Bridge, he was in fact speaking to a simulation.
TROI: You mean he never knew he hadn't left the holodeck?
PICARD: In fact, the program is continuing even now inside that cube.
CRUSHER: A miniature holodeck?
DATA: In a way, Doctor. However, there is no physicality. The program is continuous but only within the computer's circuitry.
BARCLAY: As far as Moriarty and the Countess know, they're half way to Meles Two by now. This enhancement module contains enough active memory to provide them experiences for a lifetime.
PICARD: They will live their lives and never know any difference.
TROI: In a sense, you did give Moriarty what he wanted.
PICARD: In a sense. But who knows? Our reality may be very much like theirs. All this might be just be an elaborate simulation running inside a little device sitting on someone's table. Well, we have a newborn star to study. Mister Barclay, you will keep that safe?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
BARCLAY: Computer, end program.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46461.3. We have arrived at a communication relay station near the Klingon border, where we are scheduled to deliver supplies. However, the station has not responded to repeated hails.

[Relay Station ops]
CRUSHER: What's that noise?
LAFORGE: They must've left an audio monitoring system on. We're hearing a few thousand subspace messages. I'll try and shut it off. Got it.
RIKER: Geordi, what's that?
LAFORGE: I don't know. Sounds like a loose panel or something. I think it's coming from this service duct over here.
RIKER: Here's your loose panel.
LAFORGE: Hey, pooch. hey, pooch, come on out of there. Come on. Come on. Hey, pooch, what are you doing in there?
WORF: Commander, the shuttlecraft is gone. There is no one on board.
CRUSHER: Commander?
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: Cellular residue. I believe these are the remains of one of our lieutenants.
CRUSHER: All of the blood traces I found match those of Lieutenant Aquiel Uhnari. I'll assume those are her remains but I'll need to take the deck plate back to Sickbay just to be sure.
RIKER: It would take a powerful weapon to do that.
CRUSHER: I'll have a better idea once I've analyzed the deck plate.
RIKER: If that is Uhnari, where's Rocha?
CRUSHER: The station's shuttle's gone. Maybe he took it.
RIKER: Before Uhnari died or after?
WORF: We're ready, Commander.
RIKER: Did you have any luck downloading the station logs?
LAFORGE: Not yet. I can't get past these security lock-outs, and I think I know why. All encrypted subspace messages are sent through this channel. Take a look at this signal notation.
RIKER: It's out of sequence.
LAFORGE: Looks like somebody tried to by pass the access protocols and break into the coded messages. It caused the security lockouts to freeze right up.
RIKER: Are there any messages missing?
LAFORGE: I won't know until I get into the files.
RIKER: Looks like you've made a friend.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
RIKER: We're going to back to the ship. Let me know as soon as you have something.
LAFORGE: I'm going to try accessing the logs from another console.

[Aquiel's quarters]
LAFORGE: What's going on here? Well, we can start with repolarizing the interface.
LAFORGE: What is it, pup? What's the matter? Something over here? This doesn't look like it belongs to you. Ah, This what you want, huh? There you go. Computer, run station logs in sequence.
AQUIEL (voiceover): Station log, stardate 46458.3. Today we configured the relay controller grid. It was the last primary system we had to overhaul. We are scheduled to recalibrate and align the antennae systems in the next three days.
LAFORGE: Computer, access visual output.
AQUIEL (voiceover): Sent in my third request for a message delay buffer. Until it arrives, Lieutenant Rocha and I have rigged a memory module to compensate. It better work, or about a half million subspace messages are going to end up drifting through space. Computer, open Uhnari correspondence file.
LAFORGE: Computer, access correspondence files, Lieutenant Aquiel Uhnari.
AQUIEL (voiceover): Hello, Shiana. Sorry I haven't talked to you in a while but I've been dealing with the new Lieutenant, Rocha. So far he's been rude, arrogant and condescending, and he's only been here two days. This might be a long year.
LAFORGE: Come on, Lieutenant. Stick with me.
AQUIEL (voiceover): I had the dream again. Mother's calling out my name. She's somewhere in the house. I get to the top of the hill all right, but then the house is slanted. I'm still walking uphill. I can't find her. Doors everywhere and they all look the same.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The cellular residue is completely fused with to metal of the deck plate. We're trying to micro-vaporize the metal in order to get a clear DNA sample.
PICARD: Do you have any idea what killed her?
CRUSHER: Well this is just a guess, but from the molecular deposition on the plating I'd say it was a high-level phaser blast.
RIKER: Could it have been a Klingon disruptor?
CRUSHER: Possibly.
RIKER: Geordi's found evidence that the encrypted messages have been tampered with, and we are close to Klingon space.
PICARD: There hasn't been a Klingon raid against the Federation for more than seven years. We can't risk a diplomatic incident until we have more evidence.
CRUSHER: And there's still the question of what happened to Lieutenant Rocha.
PICARD: Get Rocha's personnel file from Starfleet Command, and ask Starbase two twelve to help us find that shuttle.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me apprised, Doctor.

[Aquiel's quarters]
LAFORGE: All right, let's try this again. Come on, this should be working. The phase inducters are aligned. Come on, Lieutenant, I know you're in here somewhere. Computer me run a subsystem diagnostic, with a frequency range of ten to one hundred megahertz.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic cycle will be complete in twenty seconds.
LAFORGE: Iced coffee?
LAFORGE: What is it, girl?
AQUIEL (screen): Hello, Shiana. By the time you get this the Batarael will be over. This is the first time I haven't been there. I've been wondering, who's singing the Horath in my place. Jomiael hahnalia ma marou nitalia. Rumael tavariel fatra di va Jomiael. I had that dream again. The one where Mother is screaming. I climb the hill to our house but I can't get to her. Shiana, this time I ran away. I was so scared I ran back down the hill. I think I know why I've been having the dreams about danger. It's because of what's been happening with that Klingon. He's getting more aggressive all the time. Not just the usual threat.
AQUIEL (screen): It's because of what's been happening with that Klingon. He's getting more aggressive all the time. Not just the usual threat. Morag actually locked his disruptors to the station this time. I don't think there'll be any trouble. It just brings up those feelings of panic, of wanting to run, wanting to get away from danger. Shiana, I couldn't say this to anyone but you, but the panic? It's the same thing I used to feel whenever Father got angry, when I knew he was going to punish me. Only now, I'm out here in space, and there's no place to run.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: There are three references to a Commander Morag, a Klingon officer who patrols this section of the border. Apparently he would pass the station every few days and harass them.
PICARD: Perhaps this Morag was the one who was interested in obtaining the encrypted messages.
LAFORGE: Could be. She didn't say. But I do have several more days of logs left to watch. I'm hoping to learn more.
PICARD: Very well. In the meantime, I'll speak with the Klingon Governor about Commander Morag.

[Bridge]
TORAK (screen): Are you saying we attacked your outpost?
PICARD: I'm merely saying that I'm following up on evidence that my officers discovered on board.
TORAK (screen): Evidence. So you are making an accusation. The Klingon Empire will not stand for these kinds of lies.
PICARD: Governor Torak, I apologize. I can see that you honestly didn't know what happened aboard the station. I will just have to take this matter up with Gowron. I'm really sorry that we bothered you.
TORAK (screen): Gowron won't bother with such a minor incident.
PICARD: Well, ordinarily he wouldn't, but of course I was his Arbiter of Succession. I'm sure that he will be happy to come here and investigate this matter. You needn't worry about it any longer.
TORAK (screen): Gowron will come here?
PICARD: Oh, yes. So once again, thank you for your help. Oh, I will be sure to mention your name to Gowron when I speak to him.
TORAK (screen): I will investigate this further, Picard. You need not bother Gowron with this matter.
PICARD: That's very kind. Qapla'!
TORAK (screen): Qapla'!

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: Computer access the personal logs of Aquiel Uhnari.
COMPUTER: Logs accessed.
LAFORGE: Begin playback.
AQUIEL (screen): Shiana, you always said I'd look great with a wig, so here it is. What do you think?
LAFORGE: Definitely not you.
AQUIEL (screen): Okay, maybe I'm getting a little crazy. You would too, if you were stuck on a relay station in the middle of nowhere with no one for company except an egomaniac like Keith Rocha. I took a big risk today. I countermanded an order he gave. I agreed to handle the comm. traffic for Relay Station one nine four while they shut down for maintenance. Rocha said we couldn't handle the additional signal load, but I think he's wrong. When he finds out he'll be furious. It's days like this I wish I was home. You know what I miss most? Muskan seed punch. Real Muskan seed punch. You can get it from the replicator, but it's not the same. I'd give anything for some of the punch Mother used to make with chunks of the seeds still in it. Keith, is that you? Keith?

[Relay Station ops]
WORF: Commander, there are DNA traces here. Klingon.
RIKER: So Klingons did board the station?
WORF: Yes, but I only found DNA from one Klingon so far. I will continue to scan.

[Aquiel's quarters]
LAFORGE: How could she read this stuff?
RIKER: How's it going?
LAFORGE: I've managed to access all of Lieutenant Uhnari's logs. I'm still looking for Lieutenant Rocha's. Whatever happened to the encrypted messages had a cascade effect on the whole storage system. I can't find his files anywhere. I'm running a level three diagnostic now.
RIKER: Maybe Rocha didn't make the official logs. Uhnari could have been responsible for them.
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Aquiel was the junior officer here.
RIKER: Aquiel?
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Uhnari. I've been up all night watching her personal logs. I guess I'm starting to feel like I know her.
RIKER: What was she like?
LAFORGE: Well she was Hahliian. She had one sister named Shiana, she drank muskan seed punch. She had a quirky sense of humor. She liked to sing. She had questionable taste in literature.
PICARD (voiceover): Enterprise to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: The Klingon ship Qu'Vat has arrived with Governor Torak. Please report to the Observation lounge.
RIKER: We're on our way.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Governor Torak, sir.
PICARD: Governor. Welcome aboard.
TORAK: Do not bore me with your human pleasantries. I told you we did not kill the woman. Now I will prove it to you. ghoS!
TORAK: This is Lieutenant Aquiel Uhnari.
AQUIEL: We were running a level two diagnostic of the message buffer, Nothing special. Rocha had been on edge all morning, but he'd been irritable ever since he got there, so I didn't think anything of it. We were halfway through the procedure when suddenly he attacked me. He grabbed me, threw me against a bulkhead. I yelled at him to stop but he wouldn't listen. He took me by the throat. I broke free and tried to get to the weapons locker. I'm not sure what happened next but somehow I got aboard the shuttle and left.
TORAK: We found her on our side of the border heading toward Sector two five two zero. She is lucky my patrol ship did not destroy her vessel on sight.
PICARD: Lieutenant, why didn't you contact Starfleet? Let them know what happened on board the station?
AQUIEL: I don't know, sir. Maybe I passed out. I'm not even sure how long I was in the shuttle before the Klingons picked me up.
LAFORGE: Forty six hours. You've been gone forty six hours.
CRUSHER: We presumed you were dead. Your blood stains were found at the murder scene.
AQUIEL: I must have cut my head when he pushed me against the bulkhead.
WORF: Then the remains we found must be those of Lieutenant Rocha.
CRUSHER: I can't confirm that. Until we're able to separate the cellular residue from the deck plate, I won't be able to do a clear DNA scan.
RIKER: You said you were trying to get to the weapons locker. Is there a possibility that you did?
AQUIEL: No, I didn't.
RIKER: You're sure?
AQUIEL: I don't remember exactly what happened to me after I was attacked. I'm sorry. It's as if all my memories were drained out of me.
LAFORGE: Your logs said that a Commander Morag had been harassing you. Did you let him or any other Klingon aboard the station?
AQUIEL: Absolutely not.
WORF: If that is true, then Morag or some other Klingon must have boarded the station after she left. We found traces of Klingon DNA on the station.
TORAK: You still try to blame us.
WORF: Have the courage to admit your mistakes. Or are you a lo'Be Vos?
TORAK: At least I do not wear the uniform of the P'tak!
PICARD: Governor, we are merely exploring all the possibilities. Lieutenant Uhnari's logs reported that Commander Morag had been harassing the station.
TORAK: He was doing his job.
PICARD: If he was only doing his job, then I'm sure you won't mind if we spoke with him.
TORAK: Very well. In the interests of diplomacy, I will allow you to speak to Morag. But my patience has limits.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant, I know a friend of yours who's very eager to see you.
AQUIEL: Who?
LAFORGE: Come with me.

[La Forge's quarters]
AQUIEL: Maura! Come here, girl. Come on, Maura.
LAFORGE: Maura. That's the name.
AQUIEL: Yes, it's from Cold Moon Over Blackwater. Have you read it?
LAFORGE: I'm not much for gothic fiction.
AQUIEL: Not many people are nowadays. Oh, your shoe.
LAFORGE: Yeah, Maura got a little restless.
AQUIEL: Maura, shame on you. That's not like you. What a naughty dog.
LAFORGE: It's all right, don't worry about it. At least she's chewing them up in pairs. I'll arrange quarters for you. I'm sure you want some time alone.
AQUIEL: Actually I've been stuck on that station for over nine months. I wouldn't mind going someplace with some activity.
LAFORGE: I know just the place.

[Ten Forward]
BARMAN: Here you are, sir.
AQUIEL: Thank you.
LAFORGE: You're welcome.
AQUIEL: Mmmm. Have you ever tried Muskan seed punch?
LAFORGE: Yeah. It nearly made me sick.
AQUIEL: You have to be raised on it. It's very nutritious. The taste grows on you.
LAFORGE: Batar al nalia.
AQUIEL: You speak Hahliian.
LAFORGE: We traveled around quite a bit when I was growing up. I picked up a couple of languages along the way.
AQUIEL: We never traveled. My family lived in the same house for five generations.
LAFORGE: The one on the hill.
AQUIEL: How do you know about that?
LAFORGE: Well, to be honest, when we thought you were dead I needed to review your logs and personal correspondence for any possible clues about what happened.
AQUIEL: All of it?
LAFORGE: Most of it, yeah. You need to understand that we thought you'd been murdered. We needed information.
AQUIEL: I'm sorry. It's just that I tell my sister things I wouldn't tell anyone else. I guess I was feeling a little exposed.
LAFORGE: I'd feel the same way.
AQUIEL: Especially if I had seen you in that wig.
LAFORGE: It really wasn't you.
AQUIEL: I'm curious. Now that you've met me, am I what you expected?
LAFORGE: Actually, I'm not sure. The woman I saw in those logs is very complicated. I think there's more to you than meets the eye, Lieutenant.
AQUIEL: In what way?
LAFORGE: Well, your relationship with Lieutenant Rocha, for example. He was only there for five days and yet there was evidence of plenty of friction. You seemed to delight in doing things that you knew would upset him. Why take on extra comm. traffic when you knew it was going to make him angry?
AQUIEL: Is that a personal question or part of a murder investigation?
LAFORGE: I don't know. Maybe both.
AQUIEL: Keith Rocha was obnoxious from the minute he reported to duty. He treated me as though I was beneath contempt. I felt like I had to battle him to hold my own. But I didn't want to see him dead.
LAFORGE: Why do you think he attacked you?
AQUIEL: I don't know.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Rocha's file is spotless. Two decorations for valor, three outstanding evaluations from his previous commanders. Doesn't sound like the same man that Lieutenant Uhnari described.
PICARD: What did you found out about Uhnari?
RIKER: I checked into her record, too. Her last posting was on Deriben Five. I spoke to her commanding officer there. He said she was argumentative, quick to take offense. He also told me he transferred her to that relay station because she was hampering their efforts. To be honest, I'm having trouble believing her story, sir.
PICARD: Why?
RIKER: I sent Worf to check the weapons locker on the relay station. There's a phaser missing.
PICARD: You think that she lied?
RIKER: Lied, conveniently forgot, I'm not sure. I think it's something we have to consider.
PICARD: As of now, we don't have sufficient evidence one way or the other. I want you to examine her shuttle. You might find something there which will shed some light on her story.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
AQUIEL: How much longer do you think the investigation will take?
LAFORGE: Three, maybe four days. It's tough to tell.
AQUIEL: I know I'm a suspect in the murder, but let me ask you something. You've watched my logs. You know me better than anyone here. Do I seem like the kind of person who could murder someone?
LAFORGE: No, you don't.
AQUIEL: I don't think I realized how much I needed to hear that.
LAFORGE: Look, Aquiel, it's been a rough couple of days. I think you need some sleep.
AQUIEL: You called me complicated. You're right. I don't make friends easily. Oumriel.
LAFORGE: Oumriel.

[Aquiel's shuttlecraft]
WORF: Commander. It is set to kill.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: We found this type two phaser in your shuttlecraft. It was taken from the weapons locker on the station.
AQUIEL: I told you I don't remember what happened. Maybe I did make to the weapons locker.
RIKER: It was set to level ten. Standard procedure requires that all phasers are set on level one when they're in storage.
WORF: That means that someone deliberately changed the setting. And then there is the matter of your conflict with Lieutenant Rocha.
AQUIEL: Rocha and I had our disagreements but that does not mean I would kill him.
RIKER: Have you been able to remember anything that happened after he attacked you?
AQUIEL: No. Nothing. I suppose maybe in self-defense I
RIKER: Doctor Crusher tells me that in order to inflict the kind of molecular damage found in Rocha's remains, it would take a sustained phaser discharge of at least thirty to forty seconds. That doesn't sound like self-defense to me.
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. We haven't even established this phaser is the murder weapon yet. And even at level ten I don't see how it could have done the damage the medical evidence says it did. A phase disruptor like a Klingon weapon, maybe.
RIKER: Look, we're not here to make accusations. We're trying to find out what happened. Commander Morag is due here in two hours. Let's see what he has to say.
LAFORGE: Fine. In the meantime I'd like to go back to the station and see if I can access Rocha's personal logs again.
RIKER: Good idea.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Geordi, wait a second. Thank you, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: This is off the record. I'm saying this as a friend, not your superior officer. I think it would be best if you weren't so personally involved with Aquiel right now. There's a lot about her we don't know.
LAFORGE: And there's a lot about her that I do know, and if she's innocent I want to help her prove it.
RIKER: I think you've let your personal feelings cloud your judgment.
LAFORGE: I'm not the one making judgments.

[Relay Station ops]
LAFORGE: Got it. Computer, display the personal records of Lieutenant Rocha from stardates 46455 to 46460.
LAFORGE: Computer, what happened to the log entries for stardate 46459?
COMPUTER: The logs have been deleted.
LAFORGE: Who deleted them?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Qu'Vat has arrived with Commander Morag. We are preparing to question him regarding his involvement in the murder of Lieutenant Rocha.

[Observation lounge]
MORAG: I killed no one!
RIKER: We found your DNA on the bulkheads and the console. We know you were there.
TORAK: Answer their questions.
MORAG: Yes. Yes, I was there. My patrol route takes me near the station every six days. Three days ago, I hailed them. There was no response. I was concerned.
TROI: Concerned?
MORAG: Yes. I went aboard to see what had happened. There was no one was there, so I left.
RIKER: Is that all?
MORAG: That's all.
DATA: Commander Morag, we have discovered that the encrypted message bank on the station has been tampered with. Our analysis indicates that twenty seven priority Starfleet messages are missing.
MORAG: What of it?
DATA: Your DNA was also found on the message control module.
MORAG: This is outrageous! We will not tolerate these ridiculous accusations!
TORAK: This is a diplomatic matter, Morag! Do not make me search your ship.
MORAG: Yes, I did take the messages.
PICARD: Did you kill Lieutenant Rocha?
MORAG: No. I killed no one. There was no one there. I took the codes, but I killed no one.
PICARD: Governor, we would like Commander Morag to remain on board the Enterprise until this investigation is complete.
TORAK: Take him.
WORF: This way.

[Relay Station ops]
LAFORGE: Last night, after I dropped you off at your quarters you established a subspace link with this console. You deleted some of Rocha's personal files, didn't you?
AQUIEL: Yes, I did.
LAFORGE: Why?
AQUIEL: I found a letter Rocha was planning to send to Starfleet Command about me. The letter said I had become belligerent and insubordinate. He was going to ask for a formal hearing. Geordi, I know how this looks.
LAFORGE: Yeah, it looks bad. I find out that you've erased a letter that contained a possible motivation for murder?
AQUIEL: I didn't kill him.
LAFORGE: Then explain this.
AQUIEL: I was afraid if they found the letter they'd blame me for the murder. I'm not a model officer. I realize that. Sometimes I act on impulse instead of thinking things through.
LAFORGE: Aquiel, this really complicates things.

[Aquiel's quarters]
LAFORGE: What are you doing?
AQUIEL: Getting out of here.
LAFORGE: Aquiel, running away isn't going to prove your innocence. Facing the situation will.
AQUIEL: I'm scared, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Look, we'll get through this. I promise you, okay?
AQUIEL: Then you believe me?
LAFORGE: Yes, I do. Medical Officer's log, supplemental. I've isolated the cellular residue from the deck plate, but the DNA has destabilized. I'm attempting to reform it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: All right. Initiate the resonance frequency burst.
CRUSHER: I'm starting to get a stable DNA scan. This is odd. The nucleotide sequences are starting to fluctuate. The DNA is becoming mobile. Let's try another frequency burst, but increase the resonance level by twenty percent.

[Aquiel's quarters]
AQUIEL: I haven't been this close to someone in a long time. I don't want to let go of it.
LAFORGE: Neither do I, but I've got six hundred logs to go through.
AQUIEL: All right, but first there's something I want to share with you. A way that we can become more intimate. My people are partially telepathic. We use something called the Canar to help focus our thoughts. We also use the Canar for a stronger emotional link during love.
LAFORGE: I was wondering what that was for. Do both of us have to be telepathic for it to work?
AQUIEL: Let's find out.
LAFORGE: Like this.
AQUIEL: Think of me.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's an exact reproduction of my hand, right down to the DNA structure.
PICARD: Doctor, you said that this was formed from the organic matter found in the deck plates.
CRUSHER: When I infused the matter with a resonance frequency burst, it activated its DNA. Then it touched my hand and it began to mimic my cellular structure.
PICARD: Doctor, what exactly is this?
CRUSHER: This is going to sound very farfetched, but have you ever heard of a coalescent organism?
PICARD: No.
CRUSHER: They're rare microscopic lifeforms which need to absorb other organisms in order to survive. Now, that in itself isn't so unusual, but coalescents become the organisms they've absorbed, right down to the cellular level.
WORF: Do you think this is what happened with your hand?
CRUSHER: There've been reports that these organisms can exist on a larger scale. Certainly, what happened to my hand seems to support that theory.
RIKER: So you think that Rocha was killed by one of these organisms?
CRUSHER: It's possible that something happened to him before he reported for duty on the relay station.
WORF: I do not understand.
CRUSHER: I've checked the records. Before he was posted to the relay station, Rocha served on an outpost in the Triona System. That is a remote sector. Maybe he was absorbed by a coalescent during that mission.
RIKER: So what boarded the station could have been an organism that looked and acted like Lieutenant Rocha?
WORF: How often do they have to change bodies?
CRUSHER: The microscopic organisms have a cycle of no more than five to ten seconds. We can only assume a larger, more complex coalescent would have a cycle of days, even weeks.
PICARD: Doctor, if what you're saying is true, then Rocha attacked Lieutenant Uhnari to find a new body.
CRUSHER: Right.
RIKER: That means Uhnari is a coalescent.
WORF: There was one other person on the station. Morag. It is possible he was the one who was absorbed.
PICARD: Computer, locate Commander Morag and Lieutenant Uhnari.
COMPUTER: Commander Morag is in his quarters. Lieutenant Uhnari is not aboard the Enterprise.
WORF: Where did she go?
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Uhnari transported to Relay Station forty seven at eighteen thirty hours.
RIKER: You get Morag. I'm going to the station.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Aquiel's quarters]
AQUIEL: Geordi?
LAFORGE: I can see you. Oh. And I can feel you.

[Morag's quarters]
WORF: Do not move.
MORAG: What is this?
WORF: You will come with me.

[Aquiel's quarters]
AQUIEL: You've never been as close to someone as you're about to be. Think of me.
RIKER: Step away from him, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: What are you doing, Commander?
RIKER: That may not be Lieutenant Uhnari.
LAFORGE: What?
AQUIEL: What are you saying?
RIKER: Step away now. Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Commander Morag and Lieutenant Uhnari are being kept under close observation. So far, no sign of coalescent behavior has surfaced.

[La Forge's quarters]
RIKER: Aquiel and Morag will be transferred to a secure medical facility at Starbase twelve. Maybe we'll know more by the time we get there.
LAFORGE: Yeah, right.
RIKER: It could be Morag. We don't know for sure.
LAFORGE: Sure.
RIKER: Get some rest. You've had a rough couple of days.
LAFORGE: Thanks.
LAFORGE: Computer, display the Engineering duty roster for the next three days.
LAFORGE: Maura, come on, not now. Maura, I said not now. Come on, give me a break here. Go lay down!
LAFORGE: Maura?

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Maybe the reason you don't remember anything that happened after Rocha attacked you is that the coalescing process had begun. Thank you. Remember when you said you felt like the memories had been drained right out of you? That's probably exactly what was going on.
AQUIEL: Then maybe I did take the phaser.
LAFORGE: Whatever happened, at least you got away before the process took hold.
AQUIEL: So he turned on Maura.
LAFORGE: Right. Well, what now?
AQUIEL: I guess I'll be going to Starbase two twelve for re assignment.
LAFORGE: You know, I had a talk with Chief Pendleton in Communications. There's an opening for a level two specialist.
AQUIEL: Really? I'm sure the waiting list so long I'd be gray before I got here.
LAFORGE: I could put in a good word.
AQUIEL: It's an appealing offer, but I think I'd rather get here on my own merits. Don't be surprised if you see my name on that list.

[Warbird - crew quarters]
TROI: Computer, lights. Computer, turn on the lights.
N'VEK: Good, you're awake.
TROI: Who are you?
N'VEK: Please, Counselor, there is little time. The Commander will be calling for you at any moment.
TROI: Where am I?
N'VEK: You are aboard the Imperial Romulan Warbird Khazara. I am Subcommander N'Vek.
TROI: Warbird? I was at the neuropsychology seminar at Bokara Six. The last thing I remember was returning to my quarters. I was attacked. I felt a hypospray.
N'VEK: It was necessary. I could not be certain you would come voluntarily.
TROI: Oh, God. My head's still spinning.
N'VEK: There are drugs in your system, but they've nearly dissipated. The disorientation will soon pass.
TROI: Why have you brought me here?
N'VEK: Listen to me carefully. You are no longer Deanna Troi. You are Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar, the Imperial Intelligence. Commander Toreth
TROI: Am I a prisoner?
N'VEK: There is no time to explain everything. You must listen. Commander Toreth will want to know your mission. Tell her nothing. Simply instruct her to proceed to the Kaleb sector, heading one oh two mark four.
TROI: The Kaleb sector?
N'VEK: Repeat it. Heading one oh two mark four.
TROI: Heading one oh two mark four. And she'll take orders from me?
N'VEK: You are an officer of the Tal Shiar. She will obey you. But do not push her too far.
TORETH (voiceover): Sub Commander N'Vek. We are approaching the loading point. Bring our guest to the Bridge.
N'VEK: Yes, Commander. Immediately. Please, we must hurry.
TROI: I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on.
N'VEK: You are a Starfleet officer disguised as a Romulan. Unless you trust me and do exactly as I have said, Toreth will discover you and you will be killed.
TROI: How do I know I won't be killed anyway?
N'VEK: Your only chance to get off this ship alive is to do as I say. You are an empath. You would know if I am lying. Am I?
TROI: No.
N'VEK: Then let us go see the Commander.

[Warbird bridge]
PILOT: Orbit established, Commander.
TORETH: Commence loading the cargo. Notify me when the transfer is complete.
PILOT: Yes, sir.
N'VEK: Commander, may I present Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar? This is Commander Toreth.
TORETH: Attend to your station. Why are you here without your guards? Well?
TROI: The mission is one of utmost secrecy. I could not risk bringing guards.
TORETH: And exactly what is the nature of this clandestine assignment?
TROI: I cannot reveal that.
TORETH: Oh? Why not?
TROI: I am under orders.
TORETH: You don't act like a member of the Tal Shiar. How long have you been with Intelligence?
TROI: Several months.
TORETH: Ah.
PILOT: Commander, cargo is on board and secure.
TORETH: Tell me, is there a reason why the Commander of a ship is being kept ignorant of its cargo?
TROI: I don't know what you mean.
TORETH: I have been ordered to take on cargo but its contents are unknown to me. Does that seem wise? I am responsible for the safety of this ship and its crew. How do I know this cargo is safe to transport?
TROI: I'm sure it is safe, otherwise it would not have been loaded.
TORETH: Ah. The Tal Shiar is deeply concerned for the safety and well-being of the military. I'm sure that every person on the Bridge of this ship could offer testimony about personal experiences with the Tal Shiar, but I doubt that many could recall those encounters as tender and caring. So I must ask you to forgive me, Major, if I hesitate to accept your assurances that that cargo presents no danger to my crew. I intend to open those containers.
TROI: That cargo is the property of the Tal Shiar. You will not touch it.
TORETH: On whose authority?
TROI: Mine. And if you do not wish to undergo another personal experience with the Tal Shiar, I suggest you not question me again. Now, proceed on course bearing one oh two mark four to the Kaleb sector.
TORETH: Why should we go to the Kaleb sector? It's virtually deserted.
TROI: Because those are your orders.
TORETH: Pilot, set course. Bearing one oh two mark four. Warp six.
PILOT: Yes, Commander.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46519.1. We have arrived at Research Station seventy five to take on a rather unique passenger, one whose homecoming will undoubtedly be difficult.

[Corridor]
WORF: The man acted dishonorably. He is a traitor.
CRUSHER: He risked his life to get here. He spent two weeks alone in a scout ship.
WORF: That does not excuse his original actions.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Well, maybe he finally realized he made a mistake.
RIKER: It's twenty years too late. Energize.
RIKER: Ensign DeSeve, by order of Starfleet Command I am placing you under arrest for treason.
DESEVE: I understand.
RIKER: After Doctor Crusher declares you medically fit, you will be confined to your quarters until a court martial can be convened. Find some civilian clothes. I don't want to see you in that uniform.
DESEVE: Yes, sir. Commander, I must speak with Captain Picard.
RIKER: He's a busy man.
DESEVE: Please, it's important. Urgent.
RIKER: I'll tell him.

[DeSeve's quarters]
DESEVE: Commander.
PICARD: At ease. It's Captain, actually.
DESEVE: Of course. I'm sorry, sir.
PICARD: You said it was important that I see you.
DESEVE: Yes, Captain. I have a message from Ambassador Spock. He said it involves further cowboy diplomacy. He said you would understand. There's a Corvallen freighter arriving in the Kaleb sector in the next twelve hours. Spock wants you to rendezvous with that ship, bring its cargo back to Federation space.
PICARD: What kind of cargo?
DESEVE: He said it was important to the future of the Romulans and the Federation.
PICARD: You have returned in order to give me this message?
DESEVE: Partly.
PICARD: In order to know whether Ambassador Spock's message is being delivered accurately, I need to understand something about the messenger.
DESEVE: I was ready to come back. Romulus had lost its appeal.
PICARD: Yet at one time you found something very appealing about it.
DESEVE: The Romulans are very moral, Captain. They have an absolute certainty about what is right and what is wrong, who is a friend and who is an enemy, a strict moral compass which provides them with a clarity of purpose. At one time I found their sense of purpose, their passion and commitment, to be very compelling.
PICARD: But not any more?
DESEVE: As I've grown older, I realize that clarity of purpose is a more ambiguous matter than I had thought in my youth.
PICARD: Commander Riker, set course for the Kaleb sector, warp factor eight.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye-aye, sir.

[Warbird cargo bay]
TROI: You may wait outside. Make certain we're not disturbed.
TROI: They're terrified of me.
N'VEK: The purpose of the Tal Shiar is to ensure loyalty. To defy them is to invite imprisonment or death.
TROI: I think it's time you told me what this is all about.
N'VEK: That is why I called you here. These are the cargo containers we brought on board earlier.
TROI: What's in it?
TROI: He's alive. In stasis. Who is it?
N'VEK: Vice Proconsul M'ret of the Imperial Senate and his two top aides.
TROI: M'ret? He's one of the highest ranking members of the Romulan government.
N'VEK: His defection will be a profound blow to Romulus.
TROI: Why is he doing this?
N'VEK: M'ret had questioned the repressive activities of the government and was in danger of being imprisoned. He is willing to take this risk in order to protest Romulan policy and support the dissident movement.
TROI: You're part of Ambassador Spock's underground movement.
N'VEK: Yes. If we are able to deliver M'ret safely, Spock is hopeful that we can establish an escape route for the thousands of dissidents who live in fear of their lives. Now you realize why we are willing to go to such extraordinary lengths, even kidnapping you, to make sure we succeed.
TROI: You've given me the identity of a Tal Shiar officer. Is there a real Major Rakal?
N'VEK: There was. She was killed so that you could take her place. Only a member of the Tal Shiar would have the authority to alter a ship's mission.
TROI: Why me? You could have found a Romulan to play this role.
N'VEK: Yes, for the first part of the plan. But if anything goes wrong we will need a Starfleet officer.
TROI: Why?
N'VEK: There's no need to go into that unless it becomes necessary. For your own sake, Counselor, the less you know about the specifics of this plan, the better.
TROI: What is your plan?
N'VEK: When we reach the Kaleb sector, we will rendezvous with a Corvallen freighter. You will take these containers into their ship and accompany them back to Starfleet Headquarters.
TROI: The Corvallens are mercenaries. Do they know what's in these containers?
N'VEK: No. They were hired simply to take you to Federation space.
TROI: Very well.
N'VEK: We are due in the ward room shortly. The senior officers always dine together.
TROI: I'll go to my quarters. I think it would be best if I stayed out of the way of the Commander.
N'VEK: No, you will be expected to attend. I'll go ahead. Follow me after a few moments. Commander Toreth must not feel that anything is unusual.

[Warbird ward room]
TORETH: We'd been told that the Klingon outpost was undefended. So when their warships decloaked, they took us completely by surprise.
TORETH: The Klingons managed to destroyed half my squadron before we even opened fire. But when we did, ha! they were no match for us. I destroyed their flagship myself. I received the Sotaric Citation for my actions that day. The Intelligence Officer in charge of that mission was executed. Major. Welcome to our table.
TROI: Commander.
TORETH: I suggest you try the viinerine. It's quite good.
TORETH: I realize that it's nothing compared to what you're accustomed to on Romulus, but you could at least try the viinerine.
TROI: I've smelled better viinerine on prison ships.
TORETH: No doubt. Tell me, Major, where did you train? The Intelligence Academy or the Imperial War College?
TROI: The Academy.
TORETH: Oh? So you must know Commander Konsab.
TROI: I know of him.
TORETH: I assume you studied Military History with him?
TROI: Yes.
TORETH: Tell me, Major, what do you think about his theories on the differences between the military and the Tal Shiar?
TROI: Which aspects are you referring to?
TORETH: Come now, Major. Surely you attended his classes regularly? It was Konsab's main theme.
TROI: Do you have a point to make, Commander? If so, it has escaped me.
TORETH: Commander Konsab believes that in order to function, military officers have to trust each other. The Tal Shiar, on the other hand, trust no one. They expect deception, so they always find it.
TROI: Your opinion of the Tal Shiar quite clear, Commander.
TORETH: I hope so.
TROI: We ensure the loyalty of the people. Do you believe the Empire would be better off without our protection?
TORETH: Protection? From what? How was the Empire threatened by the words of an old man, a devoted citizen who merely tried to speak his mind? How did the Tal Shiar protect the Empire by dragging him, my father, out of his home in the middle of the night?
TROI: Clearly, your father was a traitor.
TORETH: No. He was just an idealistic old man. I never saw him again.
TROI: I don't need your devotion, Commander. Just your obedience.
TORETH: And that's all you have.
PILOT (voiceover): Commander, sensors are picking up an unidentified ship on an intercept course.

[Warbird bridge]
TORETH: What is the configuration?
PILOT: It appears to be a freighter, Commander.
TROI: Hail them.
TORETH: Visual.
ALIEN (screen): Commander. We are glad to see you. We are prepared to transfer your cargo as agreed.
TORETH: With whom do you have this agreement?
ALIEN (screen): Our arrangements were made with Major Rakal. You may rest assured your cargo will be taken safely to its destination. We will transmit coordinates for you to beam it aboard.
TROI: He's lying. They have no intention of keeping their word.
N'VEK: Are you certain?
TROI: Yes.
TORETH: Why did you destroy that vessel?
N'VEK: I beg forgiveness, Commander, but Major Rakal ordered me to fire.
PILOT: The Corvallen freighter has been completely destroyed, Commander. There are no survivors.
TORETH: I demand an explanation.
TROI: How many people were on that ship?
PILOT: Approximately eighteen people, sir.
TORETH: I don't care if there were eighteen or eight hundred. On this ship, I give the command to fire, Major. You have no right.
TROI: This gives me the right.
TORETH: Even you, eventually, will have to answer to someone. You will be held accountable.
TROI: I have been given broad discretionary powers. Subcommander N'Vek acted under my authority, the authority of the Tal Shiar. I assure you this action will not be questioned.
TORETH: I will nonetheless make an entry in my log that I am not responsible for those eighteen lives and that I deplore their loss.
TROI: Do what you feel is necessary. In the meantime, we must protect ourselves. Engage the cloaking device.
TORETH: And what are my orders now, Major?
TROI: Hold position and wait.

[Bridge]
DATA: There is no sign of the freighter, sir. We are the only ship in the area.
PICARD: Ensign, verify our position.
MCKNIGHT: We're holding at the coordinates specified by Ensign DeSeve, sir.
RIKER: Anything on long range sensors?
DATA: Sensors indicate no other ships within three light years.
RIKER: Could this have been a hoax?
PICARD: It's one possibility. Mister Worf, bring Ensign DeSeve to my Ready room.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Ensign DeSeve, you promised me a freighter with an important cargo. The only thing here is empty space. Do you have an explanation?
DESEVE: I don't understand.
WORF: Captain, he has deceived us.
DESEVE: No. I was told the ship would be at these coordinates.
PICARD: You said that the message came directly from Ambassador Spock.
DESEVE: Yes. Well, not exactly.
PICARD: What does that mean?
DESEVE: Someone else relayed the message to me, but he said Spock spoke directly to him. I trust the man who spoke to me. He would not have lied.
WORF: Was he a Romulan?
DESEVE: Yes. He's a member of the underground a dissident. He risks his life to work with those who want a different future for Romulus.
WORF: Captain, he could be leading us into a trap.
DESEVE: No, that is not so.
PICARD: It would be risky to set a trap here, so close to Federation space. But the fact remains, here we are, there is no freighter. Did your contact tell you anything else that might be helpful?
DESEVE: The freighter is an old Antares class vessel with limited speed and range. It couldn't have taken on its cargo more than a day ago which means it must be within fifteen light years of here.
PICARD: Why didn't you mention this earlier?
DESEVE: It didn't seem necessary. And on Romulus you learn not to volunteer information. It's a hard habit to break.
PICARD: Well, maybe now would be a good time to start. Follow me, gentlemen.

[Warbird cargo bay]
N'VEK: Our plan has collapsed.
TROI: Our plan? What about the people on that freighter? Why did you fire?
N'VEK: There was no alternative. You told me they couldn't be trusted. If I let them live the whole mission would be in jeopardy.
TROI: Eighteen people lost their lives.
N'VEK: Don't lecture me, Counselor. A number of people have died in order to carry out this mission. Believe me, those eighteen won't be the last.
TROI: I'm sorry but I can't dismiss those lives so easily.
N'VEK: Fine. Agonize all you want, but don't let it get in the way of our plan.
TROI: You don't have a plan anymore.
N'VEK: You remember I told you if anything went wrong, we would need a Starfleet officer. There is a Starfleet base on Draken Four. It is two days away at maximum warp. That's where we're going.
TROI: In a Romulan ship?
N'VEK: Yes. It's your job to order Toreth to proceed into Federation territory.
TROI: We'll never get through the gravitic sensor nets.
N'VEK: We will, if you provide the correct access codes.
TROI: Do you really think this has a chance of succeeding?
N'VEK: If you have another idea, I'll be happy to consider it.

[Warbird ward room]
TROI: You will plot a course for the Draken System.
TORETH: You can't be serious.
TROI: Draken Four was the freighter's destination. I ordered the freighter destroyed because I recognized the Captain, a known Federation spy. Now we must deliver the cargo ourselves.
TORETH: We must?
TROI: I do not intend to explain myself to you. You will set a course.
TORETH: In order to reach Draken, we will have to travel through Federation space for nearly twenty hours.
TROI: That is not a problem.
TORETH: Contrary to the propaganda that your superiors would have us believe, Starfleet is neither weak nor foolish. The chances of us reaching Draken undetected are not good.
TROI: We will be cloaked.
TORETH: The cloaking device does not always make us invulnerable, and you would know that if you had spent any time at all in the field. The Federation has littered it's borders with subspace listening posts, with gravitic sensors. They may even have a tachyon detection grid in operation, in which case they will know that we're there. If we are discovered in Federation territory, it will be interpreted as an act of war.
TROI: The Tal Shiar has obtained access codes for the sensor nets. I will provide them if necessary.
TORETH: That will be no guarantee that we will escape undetected.
TROI: Your cowardice does not befit a Romulan soldier.
TORETH: People blame the military for the wars that we are asked to fight, but I think it is your kind, Major, that will be the death of us all.

[Warbird bridge]
TORETH: Plot a course for the Draken System.
PILOT: Course plotted, sir.
TORETH: Prepare for warp.
PILOT: Commander, sensors are picking up a vessel. Our cloaking device is still engaged. They have not detected us.
TORETH: Activate viewscreen. Enlarge.
PILOT: It is the Enterprise, Commander.
TORETH: Well, Major, it appears your suspicions about that freighter were correct after all. The Federation has come in search of its spies. Status.
PILOT: They are scanning the debris of the freighter. Shield levels are normal. Weapon systems are not active. They are not prepared for battle, sir.
TORETH: They weren't expecting to find us here, and I see no reason to alter that perception. The radiation from the debris field could make our cloak detectable if we engage warp engines. Proceed at maneuvering speed.
TROI: One moment, Commander. We should hold our position until the Enterprise has left the area. We cannot risk detection.
TORETH: Even if we are detected, they cannot track us once we go to warp.
TROI: We have not established their intentions.
TORETH: Their intentions are obvious, Major, and are of no concern to us. Proceed on course, maneuvering engines only. Go to warp when we're clear of the debris field.
PILOT: Yes, Commander. We should clear the field in twenty seven minutes.
TROI: You will keep me informed of our progress.
N'VEK: It is not wise to challenge the Tal Shiar, Commander.
TORETH: I will not let her tell me how to run my ship.

[Bridge]
DATA: It appears to be the remains of a ship. My analysis indicates that it was an Antares class freighter.
DESEVE: That's the ship we were supposed to meet.
PICARD: Could there have had some sort of malfunction? A reactor core breach?
DATA: I do not believe so, sir. That would not be consistent with the debris pattern. However, sensors indicate extremely high levels of residual antiprotons.
RIKER: Romulan disruptor fire.
DATA: Correct. Based on the antiproton decay, I would estimate the incident occurred within the last four point three hours.
PICARD: Then the Romulans could still be in the vicinity.
RIKER: Red alert. Shields at maximum.
PICARD: Whatever that freighter was carrying, they certainly didn't want it to reach us. Are you sure you don't know what it was?
DESEVE: No, sir. I swear it.
PICARD: All we have here are questions. Mister Data, continue with your scan.

[Warbird - Troi's quarters]
TROI: We have to get a message to the Enterprise.
N'VEK: That's impossible.
TROI: It's the perfect opportunity. The Enterprise is nearby. If we can communicate with them, they might be able to help us.
N'VEK: Counselor, this ship is traveling under cloak. All of our electromagnetic emissions are being monitored. Any attempt at communication whatsoever and we would be discovered instantly. It could not succeed. We must continue to Draken Four. That is the safest course.
TROI: Is there anything you can do to the ship or to the cloaking device that would let the Enterprise track us?
N'VEK: Track us? No. We want to get into Federation territory undetected.
TROI: What we want is to get the dissidents to safety. Now answer the question. Is there a way?
N'VEK: If there were, I wouldn't do it.
TROI: Yes, you will.
N'VEK: Counselor.
TROI: We're not playing it your way any more, N'Vek. I've been kidnapped, surgically altered, put in danger I've gone along with all your plans. Now you are going to listen to me. You find a way to let the Enterprise track us, or I will go to Toreth and tell her I've discovered you're a traitor. I'll order you ejected into space. Is that clear, Subcommander?
N'VEK: There is one possibility. In order for a ship to remain undetectable while cloaked, the radiative emissions from the warp engines must be precisely balanced. The ship's Engineer is a sympathizer. He may be able to slightly misalign one of the nullifier cores. It would create a small magnetic disturbance in space whenever we were in motion.
TROI: Good. Do it.
N'VEK: The effect would only be intermittently. They might not even detect it.
TROI: If it's the best we can do, we have to try it.
N'VEK: Anything more would be immediately registered on the Bridge. Even this slight misalignment may be detected.
TROI: It's a risk we have to take. You're the one who outlined the stakes to me, N'Vek. Are you getting squeamish now, just because things are getting a little more dangerous?

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensors are picking up a polarized magnetic distortion to our port side.
PICARD: Analysis.
DATA: The distortion is extremely weak, sir. It appears to be moving slowly. It is gone, sir.
RIKER: Gone?
DATA: The distortion no longer registers on our instruments.
PICARD: Could this distortion be caused by a cloaked ship?
DATA: Unknown, sir. Our understanding of Romulan technology is still limited.
DESEVE: Captain, Romulan ships use a forced quantum singularity as a power source. If that system is not functioning perfectly or is damaged even slightly, it might show through the cloak as a magnetic disturbance of some kind.
DATA: The distortion has reappeared, sir, bearing three three seven mark ten. It has disappeared again, sir.
PICARD: Mister DeSeve, in your opinion is it possible that we're picking up a cloaked Romulan ship?
DESEVE: It's a strong possibility, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, continue your scan. Ensign, link navigational control to Mister Data's console and plot a course for that distortion.

[Warbird bridge]
PILOT: Commander, the Enterprise is underway.
TORETH: Good. What is their course?
PILOT: They're heading for us, sir.
TORETH: What?
PILOT: They appear to be on an intercept course.
TORETH: What is the status of our cloaking device? Is there a malfunction of any kind?
PILOT: Cloaking device functioning correctly, sir. All shipboard emissions within normal range.
TORETH: Maintain full sensor scans.
N'VEK: Commander. The Enterprise may simply be engaged in search operations.
TORETH: Perhaps.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Where is it now, Mister Data?
DATA: It has disappeared once again, sir. I believe it may have been coming to a halt.
PICARD: Stop engines.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.
RIKER: If this is a Romulan ship, will it stay in position until we leave?
DESEVE: I don't think so, sir. A Romulan Commander's instinct would be to attack.

[Warbird bridge]
TORETH: Engage maneuvering engines, forward zero point one. Take us directly under their hull.
PILOT: Yes, Commander.
TROI: What are you doing?
TORETH: It seems that the Enterprise can track us even though we are cloaked. I intend to find out whether they can or cannot. N'Vek, ready attack procedure.
N'VEK: Sir, disruptors are standing by. Ready to disengage cloak.
TROI: We cannot risk an engagement here.
TORETH: Considering the nature of our mission, I would have preferred to have avoided it as well. But I see no other alternative.
TROI: What do you intend to do?
TORETH: We will pass as close as we possibly can. If they do have the ability to track us, they will move to avoid a collision. If they do, I will destroy them.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, the magnetic distortion has reappeared.
PICARD: Bearing and speed?
DATA: It appears to be moving toward us, closing slowly. Its bearing indicates a possible collision course.
RIKER: Time to impact?
DATA: I am unable to make a precise measurement. However I would estimate impact within ninety seconds.
RIKER: It doesn't make any sense. Why would they run into us? And if they were, why wouldn't they do it at full speed?
DESEVE: I don't know, sir. The Romulans will sometimes make suicide attacks, but only as a last resort. There's no reason for it here.
DATA: Time to impact approximately sixty seconds.
PICARD: We don't have the luxury to speculate. Back us away from the distortion, Ensign. One half impulse.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.

[Warbird bridge]
PILOT: They are moving away, Commander.
TORETH: Prepare attack sequence.
N'VEK: All sections report ready for battle, Commander.
PILOT: Disruptors fully charged.
TORETH: Disengage cloak on my command. Prepare to fire.
TROI: Disregard that order.
TORETH: What?
TROI: I do not authorize this attack. You will cease battle operations immediately.
TORETH: I do not need your authorisation to attack, Major. This is my ship.
TROI: How typical of the military to resort to brute force when discretion is required.
TORETH: The Enterprise has demonstrated that they can track us. They must be destroyed.
TROI: Yes, they can track us. So if we attack them, they will return fire. And since we have no shields when we're cloaked, they will destroy us.
TORETH: Are you questioning my ability to command?
TROI: You are not fit to command. Step down. Step down or I will have you removed.
TORETH: Do you think anyone here will listen to you?
TROI: If any one of you defies the Tal Shiar, you will not bear the punishment alone. Your families, all of them, will be there beside you. I am now Commander of this ship. You will take orders from me and no one else. Remove Commander Toreth from her station. If she resists, shoot her.
N'VEK: Commander, please, step down.
TROI: Remove her weapon.
TROI: Now, Commander. Watch and learn. In order to defeat your enemy, you must first understand them. The Federation wishes to avoid war at all cost. So I shall offer them a diplomatic solution, get them to lower their shields and then destroy them.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed.
PICARD: On screen.
TROI (screen): I am Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar.
PICARD: I am Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise.
TROI (screen): How can we be of help?
PICARD: A Corvallen freighter has been destroyed not far from here. We have detected the residual effects of disruptor fire. Can you shed any light on this?
TROI (screen): A regrettable incident, Captain. The freighter was fired upon by the former Commander of this vessel. I have now taken control, and I assure you there will be no more attacks.
PICARD: Still, there was a considerable loss of life.
TROI (screen): Captain, we do not want to exaggerate this incident. You and I can discuss it calmly. We can diffuse it before it becomes inflated.
PICARD: I agree.
TROI (screen): I will come onto your ship. Please, lower your shields and prepare to beam me aboard.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, lock onto Major Rakal. Transport on my command.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI (screen): Thank you.
RIKER: What's she doing on that ship?
PICARD: I don't know, Number One, but she needs our help to get back. Mister Worf, keep your lock on her no matter what happens.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Lower shields.

[Warbird bridge]
N'VEK: Their shields are dropping.
TROI: Activate forward disruptor array. Fire when ready.
N'VEK: Yes, Major. Firing.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, they have fired on us.
PICARD: Shields up. Stand by phasers. Damage report.
WORF: We sustained a direct hit, but the damage was negligible. The disruptor had almost no power.
DESEVE: This is Proconsul M'ret and his aides. They're part of the underground movement.
RIKER: They're in stasis. Medical team to the Bridge.
MEDIC (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Where's Deanna?

[Warbird bridge]
PILOT: Disruptors were ineffective. The Enterprise was not damaged. They have re-established full shields.
N'VEK: I am reading a malfunction in our forward disruptor array. The power system has destabilized.
TORETH: You're lying. The disruptor beam has been purposely sabotaged to conceal a transporter beam within. Quickly, Pilot, locate transport coordinates. What have you done?
PILOT: The transporter beam originated in our cargo bay. Something was transported from there to the Enterprise.
TORETH: So, Major, the mysterious cargo, brought on board by Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar, has been transported to the Starfleet vessel. I see two traitors in our midst.
TORETH: So, Major, now that you can no longer take refuge behind the shield of the Tal Shiar, it's time to answer a few questions. What was in those cargo containers? Well, no matter. We will soon know all we need to know, and then we will execute you. Pilot, drop shields and cloak the ship. Prepare to go to warp.
PILOT: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, now.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Counselor are you all right?
TROI: Yes.
LAFORGE: Let's get you to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, get us out of here. Warp nine.
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: That about does it. How does it feel to have your own face back?
TROI: Just right. Thank you.
PICARD: The men you helped rescue are safe. Proconsul M'ret is deeply grateful for your help.
TROI: The thanks should go to N'Vek. He sacrificed himself to save them, and me.
PICARD: Thanks to the two of you, the way has been paved for further rescue operations. N'Vek's efforts, and his sacrifice, were not in vain.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Bring the stasis units in here, and have them online.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Tell Doctor Selar she can use ward three for the ambulatory cases, and I'll stay here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Transporter room four to Sickbay. They're coming in now.
CRUSHER: Acknowledged. Stand clear and be ready.
MEDIC: Let's go, let's go. Get him on here.
CRUSHER: What happened?
RIKER: The Lenarians attacked us outside of the conference room.
CRUSHER: He's in cardiac arrest. Connect the pulmonary support units. He's got internal hemorrhaging. The bioregulator of his artificial heart's been fused. He's got liver and spleen damage. What kind of weapon caused this?
WORF: A compressed teryon beam.
CRUSHER: Forty cc's inaprovaline. The activity in the isocortex is falling. Cortical stimulators. Now. Again. His respiratory system is shutting down. The levels in the isocortex are still falling. Damn. Prepare a four percent series

[Limbo]
Q: Welcome to the afterlife, Jean-Luc. You're dead.
PICARD: Q, what is going on?
Q: I told you. You're dead. This is the afterlife, and I'm God.
PICARD: You are not God.
Q: Blasphemy! You're lucky I don't cast you out, or smite you or something. The bottom line is, your life ended about five minutes ago, under the inept ministrations of Doctor Beverly Crusher.
PICARD: No. I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe that the afterlife is run by you. The universe is not so badly designed.
Q: Very well. If you really require more evidence of your post-mortem status, I guess I'll just have to provide you some.
MAURICE: Jean-Luc, I told you not to go running off to that Academy.
PICARD: Father.
MAURICE: I told you that Starfleet would bring you to a bad end, but you wouldn't listen. Now look at you. Dead before your time.
PICARD: Q, enough of this.
Q: Enough what?
MAURICE: Why couldn't you have listened? Didn't you know that I was working for your best interests?
PICARD: Q, stop this.
MAURICE: After all these years, even now, you manage to disappoint me, Jean-Luc.
Q: He's not the only one who'd like to have a word with you.
WOMAN (voiceover): Why, Jean-Luc? Why did you do it?
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Captain, there are still people down there. You can't abandon them.
CREWMAN (voiceover): There must be some other way, Captain. Some other choice than firing on them.
MAN (voiceover): If you continue on this course.
CREWMAN (voiceover): A direct hit, sir. The ship is destroyed.
Q: These are the voices of all the people you've killed throughout the years.
PICARD: Whom I've killed? What do you mean?
Q: Death has made you a little dim, Jean-Luc. These are the voices of all the people who have died through your actions or your inactions. Now, if you have any words of apology or regret, I believe they're all listening. They're a surly bunch, actually, so don't drag this out too long.
PICARD: I've no intention of performing for your amusement.
Q: This is not for me. This is for you, Jean-Luc. This is your opportunity to make peace with your sordid past.
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you are doing this for the benefit of my soul.
Q: Well, now that you've shuffled off the mortal coil, we're free to spend a little time together.
PICARD: A little time together? How much?
Q: Eternity. Now, you're sure you have no regrets or feelings of guilt about your former life? I can't have you whining and complaining through time.
PICARD: If I'm really dead, then my only regret is dying and finding you here.
Q: You wound me, Jean-Luc. After all, I was not the cause of your death. This was.
PICARD: Is that?
Q: Your artificial heart. You might have lived if you had a real one instead of this unreliable piece of technology. By the way, how did you lose yours anyway?
PICARD: A mistake.
Q: Is that a regret I hear?
PICARD: I regret a great many things from those days.
Q: Really?
Q: It wasn't very smart of you to take on three Nausicaans, was it?
PICARD: No, it wasn't.
Q: And did I hear a laugh? It's so unlike you, Jean-Luc, to have a sense of humor, especially about getting stabbed through the back.
PICARD: I was a different person in those days. Arrogant, undisciplined, with far too much ego and too little wisdom. I was more like you.
Q: Then you must have been far more interesting. Pity you had to change.
PICARD: The pity is that I had to be impaled through the back before I learned that lesson. I started that fight with those Nausicaans. I started it because, because I was young and cocky. If I'd been more responsible in those days, I wouldn't have needed this heart, and I wouldn't have died from a random energy surge thirty years later.
Q: So, if you had it to do all over again?
PICARD: Things would be different.

[Starbase - Picard's quarters]
MARTA: Bravo! Bravo!
COREY: Nicely done.
PICARD: Cortan? Cortan Zweller?
COREY: Yes. Boy, she must've hit you pretty hard. Of course, you deserved it.
MARTA: You're slowing down there, Johnny. You should've seen that one coming.
PICARD: Marta Batanides.
MARTA: Are you okay?
PICARD: Yes, I'm fine. I'm just a little disoriented, that's all.
COREY: Come on, he's just playing for sympathy now. Look, I'm going to get something to eat and head over to the casino at Bonestell. You coming?
PICARD: I'll catch up with you there.
MARTA: You sure you're okay?
PICARD: Yes, I'm fine. Really, Marta, I'm fine.
COREY: Come on, Marty. I bet he's got another date.
MARTA: That's it, isn't it? You are incorrigible.
COREY: Try not to end up in the hospital.
Q: Attention on deck, Ensign Picard.
PICARD: Q.
Q: That's Captain Q to you, young man.
PICARD: What's the point of creating this fantasy?
Q: This is no fantasy, I assure you. It's all very real. You're twenty one years old again. A brash young man, fresh out of the Academy.
PICARD: I certainly don't look it.
Q: Well, to everyone else you do.
PICARD: So, Q, I thought you told me that I was dead. Now it seems that I'm alive.
Q: Oh, you mortals are so obtuse. Why do you persist in believing that life and death are such static and rigid concepts. Why, I can take your life and give it back to you again with the snap of a finger.
PICARD: Let's say for the moment that may be true. What is the purpose of bringing me here?
Q: You said you regretted a great many things in your life. Well, here's a chance to change some of them.
PICARD: Change them? You mean change the past? Q, even if you have been able to bring me back in time somehow, surely you must realize that any alteration in this timeline will have a profound impact on the future.
Q: Please. Spare me your egotistical musings on your pivotal role in history. Nothing you do here will cause the Federation to collapse or galaxies to explode. To be blunt, you're not that important.
PICARD: I won't do it. I won't alter history.
Q: Oh, very well. Since you attach so much importance to the continuity of time, I will give you my personal guarantee that nothing you do here will end up hurting anyone, or have an adverse affect on what you know of as history. The only thing at stake here is your life and your peace of mind. Now, whether you believe me or not, you are here, and you have a second chance. What you choose to do with it is entirely up to you. Do you know where you are?
PICARD: Starbase Earhart. We came here right after graduation to await our first deep space assignments.
Q: That's right. It's two days before your unfortunate encounter with a Nausicaan sword. You have that long to make whatever changes you wish. If you can avoid getting stabbed through the heart this time, which I doubt, I will take you back to what you think of as the present. And you can go on with your life with a real heart.
PICARD: Then I won't die?
Q: Of course you'll die. It'll just be at a later time.
PICARD: What if I don't avoid the fight? What if I won't make the changes?
Q: Then you die on the table, and we spend eternity together.
PICARD: Wonderful.
Q: I'm glad you think so. I am curious about one thing, Johnny. Why did that rather attractive woman strike you just now? Something you said?
PICARD: Her name was Corlina. I'd arranged to take her out today, and then she discovered that I had already made a second date with another woman called, er, Penny, and Corlina was naturally upset.
Q: I'd no idea you were such a cad. I'm impressed.
PICARD: Computer, what is the time right now?
COMPUTER: Sixteen eleven hours.
PICARD: In fact, Penny is waiting for me right now.
Q: Well, carry on.

[Bonestell Facility bar]
PENNY: You're awfully quiet today. What happened to the dashing young Ensign from last night? The one with the winning smile and the smooth talk about my eyes?
PICARD: I'm just a little more contemplative.
PENNY: And what are you contemplating?
PICARD: Penny, er, do you think we could just talk for a while. I don't know anything about you. Where you're from, what your interests are, your last name.
PENNY: I come from Rigel, my last name is Muroc and I like men in uniform. I think that's enough talking.
PENNY: What's wrong? I don't look as attractive to you as I did last night?
PICARD: No, no, not at all. I think you're a very handsome woman.
PENNY: Handsome. That's something you say to old ladies.
PICARD: You're certainly not an old lady.
PENNY: I didn't want your pity.
Q: Penny for your thoughts? You never told me you were such a lady's man.
PICARD: I wasn't. I was a puerile adolescent who allowed himself to be led by his hormones instead of his head.
Q: Looks like your friends know how to have fun. You ought to take lessons.
Q: Excuse me.

[Bonestell Facility casino]
MARTA: He's winning.
PICARD: Of course.
MARTA: I thought you had a date.
PICARD: She decided to leave.
MARTA: You're getting old, Johnny.
COREY: Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you.
MARTA: Very, very nice. I think you should forget about Starfleet and play dom-jot for a living.
COREY: Nah, this is nothing. A little trigonometry, some minor wrist action. Now barokie, there's a game.
NAUSICAAN 1: Human! Play dom-jot, human.
COREY: I think I could be persuaded to play one more game.
PICARD: Corey, don't play him.
COREY: Why?
PICARD: It'll cause trouble. He's a Nausicaan. They can get very ill-tempered if they lose.
COREY: So can I.
PICARD: No, Corey, listen to me. This is a big mistake. Don't play him.
COREY: What's gotten into you? Let's go.
Q: I see you've found your Nausicaan friend. You seem unimpaled so far.
PICARD: I'm sorry to disappoint you.
Q: Ensign Zweller seems to be doing well.
PICARD: He's going to lose. The Nausicaan is cheating.
Q: Really? I'm beginning to like these Nausicaans.
PICARD: If history repeats itself, Corey will figure it out later tonight, and then he'll want revenge.
Q: And will you help your best friend avenge this injustice?
PICARD: I did last time. I rigged the table so that he would win in a rematch.
Q: Picard, you cheated? Picard, I'm impressed.
PICARD: It was a stupid mistake. The Nausicaan didn't take kindly to losing. Nor his friends. They were outraged. They wanted a fight. I gave them one.
Q: That's a beautiful story. It gets you right here, doesn't it?
NAUSICAAN 1: Ten. Dom-jot. Human play dom-jot.

[Starbase - Picard's quarters]
COREY: I've played a lot of dom-jot in a lot of places. I've never seen the balls roll that well for anyone.
MARTA: So he was cheating?
COREY: I'll bet you that he had some sort of magnetic device in his belt. It was controlling the balls.
MARTA: That's terrible.
COREY: We've got to get even.
MARTA: What did you have in mind?
COREY: Well, we could do to him what he did to us. Cheat. Only this time we'll rig the table so his device'll backfire on him.
PICARD: Corey, that won't solve anything.
COREY: It'll teach him that he can't go round cheating Starfleet officers.
PICARD: All it'll do is provoke him. And provoking a Nausicaan is not a good idea.
COREY: I can handle him.
PICARD: What if he's not alone? What if he brings some of his Nausicaan friends with him?
COREY: Well then I guess that when I'll have to depend on my friends to help me out.
PICARD: Corey, there's got to be a better way to handle this.
COREY: When did you start backing away from a good fight?
PICARD: Look Corey, we're not cadets anymore. We're officers. We should start to set a higher standard for ourselves.
MARTA: It was a good idea, but let's just forget it, okay?
MARTA: He'll get over it.
PICARD: I hope so. What?
MARTA: Nothing. It's just you'd usually be the one plotting revenge.
PICARD: Yes, that would be more in character, wouldn't it?
MARTA: Much. But I always suspected you had a hidden streak of responsibility somewhere.
PICARD: Perhaps it's just that I'm getting older.
MARTA: Maybe these bars are just starting to feel a little heavy, Ensign. Ensign Picard and Ensign Batanides. It sounds weird, doesn't it?
PICARD: It's going to take some getting used to.
MARTA: It's too bad we can't get used to it together. The three of us, I mean.
PICARD: Oh, of course.
PICARD: Come.
Q: Flowers! Is there a John Luck Pickard here?
MARTA: From one of your conquests, no doubt. I guess some things aren't going to change.
Q: Did I interrupt anything sordid, I hope?
PICARD: No, Q, you did not.
Q: Pity. She's quite attractive.
PICARD: We were friends, nothing more.
Q: Is that another regret I hear? My, my. We're simply riddled with regrets about our youth, now aren't we?
PICARD: My friendship with Marta is not something I regret.
Q: But you wish it had been more than just friendship, don't you? Well, maybe you can change all that.
PICARD: Q, what is it you want?
Q: I thought you'd like to know that Mister Zweller has decided not to take your advice. He's in the Bonestell Facility right now, rigging the table to beat the Nausicaan. I guess you weren't that persuasive.

[Bonestell Facility casino]
PICARD: Corey.
COREY: Ow! Johnny, don't sneak up on me like that. I thought you were the gambling foreman.
PICARD: Sorry.
COREY: I'm glad you're here. Hand me that magnaspanner.
PICARD: Corey, I'm not here to help you. I'm here to stop you from making a serious mistake.
COREY: You sound like my mother.
PICARD: Cheating the Nausicaans could have serious consequences for all of us. It's a risk we can't afford to take.
COREY: You are my mother. Well gee, Mom, I guess I'll have to go tell those Nausicaans I don't mind if they cheat me.
PICARD: This is not a joke, Corey.
COREY: It better be. Now, I'm going to finish my work here. If you want to help me, fine. If not, I'll see you back at the Starbase.
PICARD: I said you're not doing this.
COREY: Are you going to hit me, Johnny?
PICARD: No. But I'll tell the gambling foreman someone's been tampering with his dom-jot table.
COREY: All right. Have it your way, Ensign Picard.

[Starbase - Marta's quarters]
PICARD: I just couldn't make him understand.
MARTA: At least he did finally give it up.
PICARD: Yes, but he didn't take it very well.
MARTA: Oh, you know Corey. He'll forget all about it by tomorrow.
PICARD: I hope you're right, because he and I were friends for years after this. I mean, I hope we will be. You know, you keep smiling at me.
MARTA: Well, I've just never seen you like this before. You're so serious.
PICARD: Do I really seem that different?
MARTA: Maybe I'm just not used to seeing you in your officer's uniform. No, it's more than that. You do seem different. Well, I'm not complaining or anything. I think it suits you.
PICARD: Really?
MARTA: Yes. It's very attractive. Johnny. Haven't you ever thought about us getting together?
PICARD: Yes, I have, actually. I've thought about it for a long time.
MARTA: Why didn't you ever say so?
PICARD: I don't know. And at this moment, I really have no idea why not.
MARTA: You've said so now.
Q: Morning, darling. Feeling a little jumpy this morning? Are we guilty, perhaps?
PICARD: I don't feel guilty about anything, Q.
Q: No? We're just friends, Q, nothing more.
PICARD: And we're still friends.
Q: So what's next?
PICARD: I don't know. What I do know is, things will be different.
Q: I'm sure.

[Bonestell Facility bar]
PICARD: Good morning.
MARTA: Johnny.
PICARD: What's wrong?
MARTA: Well, this is the morning after, huh?
PICARD: Look, I don't regret anything that happened last night. I hope you don't either.
MARTA: I don't know. We've been friends for a long time and, and now I'm afraid we've ruined that friendship.
PICARD: Then perhaps we should forget about what happened and try to
MARTA: I wish I could. It would make it much easier to say goodbye tomorrow. We're all supposed to get together later for our last big night before we ship out.
PICARD: I don't want you to do anything that makes you uncomfortable.
MARTA: We've planned it. I'll be there.
Q: Well, let's see. You've managed to get slapped by one woman, a drink thrown in your face by another, and alienate your two best friends. Doing very well so far. The only thing left to avoid is getting stabbed through the heart.

[Bonestell Facility casino]
PICARD: I think you'll like serving on board the Ajax. I hear that Captain Narth is an excellent officer.
COREY: So I hear.
PICARD: Well, here's to the class of 'twenty seven.
NAUSICAAN: Play dom-jot, human. Give you a better chance. Give you a bigger stick maybe.
PICARD: I don't think we're interested.
NAUSICAAN 1: They are undari. Cowards.
COREY: What did you say?
NAUSICAAN: Coward. Like all Starfleet you talk and you talk, but you have no guramba.
COREY: Why don't we find out.
PICARD: Don't be a fool, Corey. Look, there are plenty of other people to play dom-jot with. Now just go about your business.
NAUSICAAN: Maybe I play with her. Give her good time.
NAUSICAAN: Orcho lok resnik. Starfleet.
PICARD: I'm sorry, Corey. He was reaching for a weapon.
COREY: I don't know who you are any more, but you're not my friend.
MARTA: Goodbye, Johnny.
Q: Congratulations, mon capitaine. You did it.
WORF (voiceover): Can I help you?

[Bridge]
WORF: Can I help you, Mister Picard?
PICARD: Mister Worf.
WORF: This is not for me. You should take it to Commander La Forge in Engineering.
PICARD: What's happened?
WORF: Is something wrong?
PICARD: I'm not sure. Mister Worf, what is my rank and position?
WORF: You are a Lieutenant junior grade, Assistant Astrophysics officer.
DATA: Are you feeling all right?
PICARD: Who's the captain of this ship?
DATA: Captain Thomas Halloway. Perhaps I should escort you to Sickbay.
PICARD: No. I can find my own way there. Thank you, Commander.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: Beverly, something's happened to me. I'm not sure
Q: Vell, vell, vell. Vhat seems to be de trouble, Lieutenant Picard?
PICARD: Q, what have you done?
Q: I've done exactly as I promised. I've returned you to the present.
PICARD: But this is not the present I remember. You said nothing would change.
Q: Nothing has changed, Jean-Luc, except for you. But then again, that's what you wanted, wasn't it? To change the man you were in your youth? Well, you did it. This is the man you are today. And You should be happy. You have a real heart beating in your chest, and you get to live out the rest of your life in safety, running tests, making analyzes, and carrying reports to your superiors.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Excuse me, am I interrupting?
RIKER: No, not at all. Have a seat.
PICARD: Thank you. I'd like to talk to you for a moment about my future on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Of course, Lieutenant. Jean-Luc, isn't it?
TROI: Maybe I should go.
PICARD: No, please, Counselor, I would very much like to hear your thoughts. First of all, and I would like you to be absolutely straightforward with me. How would you evaluate me as an officer?
TROI: Well, er, your performance records have always been good. You're thorough, dedicated.
RIKER: Reliable, steady, punctual.
PICARD: I see. What would you say if I told you that I believed that I was capable of being very much more.
RIKER: Perhaps we should discuss this at your next evaluation.
PICARD: I would appreciate it if we could discuss it now. You see, I feel that I would like to move beyond astrophysics to Engineering or Security, something that might even lead to Command.
RIKER: Frankly, Lieutenant, I don't think that's realistic.
PICARD: Why?
TROI: I really don't think this is the place to be discussing this.
PICARD: Please. This is important to me. I believe that I can do more.
TROI: Hasn't that been the problem all along? Throughout your career you've had lofty goals, but you've never been willing to do what's necessary to attain them.
PICARD: Would that be your evaluation as well, Commander?
RIKER: I think I have to agree with the Counselor. If you want to get ahead, you have to take chances, stand out in a crowd, get noticed.
PICARD: I see.
RIKER: Now, we don't want to lose you. You're a very good officer.
PICARD: Just not one who stands out.
RIKER: Why don't I talk to Commander La Forge in Engineering and we'll see what we can do.
PICARD: But, Command?
RIKER: Well, we'll see.
DATA (voiceover): Senior officers, please report to the Captain's Ready room.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
TROI: We should talk about this later.
PICARD: All right, Q, that's enough. You've made your point. Q?
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Lieutenant Picard. I'm still waiting for that statistical analysis.
PICARD: I'm on my way, sir.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Main Engineering. Are you having a good laugh now, Q? Does it amuse you to think of me living out the rest of my life as a dreary man in a tedious job?

[Limbo]
Q: I gave you something most mortals never experience. A second chance at life. And now all you can do is complain?
PICARD: I can't live out my days as that person. That man is bereft of passion and imagination. That is not who I am.
Q: Au contraire, he's the person you wanted to be. One who was less arrogant, and undisciplined as a youth. One who was less like me. The Jean-Luc Picard you wanted to be, the one who did not fight the Nausicaan, had quite a different career from the one you remember. That Picard never had a brush with death, never came face to face with his own mortality, never realized how fragile life is or how important each moment must be. So his life never came into focus. He drifted for much of his career, with no plan or agenda, going from one assignment to the next, never seizing the opportunities that presented themselves. He never lead the away team on Milika Three to save the ambassador, or take charge of the Stargazer's Bridge when its Captain was killed. And no one ever offered him a command. He learned to play it safe. And he never, ever got noticed by anyone.
PICARD: You're right, Q. You gave me the chance to change and I took the opportunity. But I admit now, it was a mistake.
Q: Are you asking me for something, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: Give me a chance to put things back the way they were before.
Q: Before you died in Sickbay. Is that what you want?
PICARD: I would rather die as the man I was than live the life I just saw.

[Bonestell Facility casino]
NAUSICAAN: Coward. Like all Starfleet. You talk and you talk but you have no guramba.
PICARD: What did you say?
NAUSICAAN: I said, you are a coward.
PICARD: That's what I thought you said.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His vital signs are stable. Captain. Jean-Luc. You've been injured, but I think you're going to be all right.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I still don't know what to make of it. Was it a dream? Was it one of Q's elaborate tricks?
RIKER: A lot of people near death have talked about strange experiences, but I've never heard one so detailed.
PICARD: And, you know, there's still a part of me that cannot accept that Q would give me a second chance, or that he would demonstrate so much compassion. And if it was Q, I owe him a debt of gratitude.
RIKER: In what sense? It sounds like he put you through hell.
PICARD: There are many parts of my youth that I'm not proud of. There were loose threads, untidy parts of me that I would like to remove. But when I pulled on one of those threads it unraveled the tapestry of my life.
RIKER: I was just trying to imagine a hell-bent for leather young officer insulting a Nausicaan twice his size. I wish I'd had a chance to know that Jean-Luc Picard.
PICARD: Oh, well, to tell the truth, that wasn't the first run-in I'd had with a couple of surly Nausicaans.
RIKER: Really?
PICARD: Oh, yes. During my sophomore year, I was assigned to training on Morikin Seven. Well, there was a Nausicaan outpost on one of the outlying asteroids, and one day
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46578.4. The Enterprise has arrived at Station Deep Space Nine, to assist in the reconstruction of the Bajoran aqueduct systems damaged during the Cardassian occupation.

[Promenade]
CRUSHER: I should be through with the water contaminant analysis in a few hours. Then I'm going to check out one of the holosuites. They have got a relaxation program here, Jean-Luc, from Alture Seven. Listen to this. First they bath you in a protein bath. Then a cloud of chromal vapor carries you into a meditation chamber. You should try it.
PICARD: Well, I'll be too busy discussing the finer points of water management with ten Bajoran bureaucrats. And they won't be carrying me on a cloud of chromal vapor. Ops.

[Replimat]
WORF: What is this?
LAFORGE: It's pasta al fiorella. One of my favorites. Don't worry, you'll love it. You know, I really want to take a look at those Ktarian antiques. I understand they've got a twenty first century plasma coil in almost perfect condition. I'll have to talk to Chief O'Brien about these replicators. Worf, I don't see how you can eat that stuff. It tastes like liquid polymer.
WORF: Delicious.
LAFORGE: You know, I think I'm going to try that kiosk on the other side of the promenade. It looked like they had some real food.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am reading a minor power drain in the starboard EPS conduit.
RIKER: What's causing it?
DATA: The problem's originating in Sickbay. There has been an unauthorized access into the computer's bio-imaging systems.
RIKER: You'd better check it out.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]
DATA: Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area?
BASHIR: Come in, come in. I need a hand with this field generator. See if you can boost the power output to sixty five percent.
DATA: I am sorry, but use of sickbay equipment is limited to ship's medical personnel.
BASHIR: Ah. Doctor Julian Bashir, Chief Medical officer, Deep Space Nine. And you are Commander?
DATA: Data.
BASHIR: Commander Data. The synthetic lifeform.
DATA: Yes.
BASHIR: It's an honor to meet you, sir. I've heard so much about you. You must have a fascinating perspective into biocybernetic research. I'd be delighted if we could discuss the subject sometime.
DATA: I would be happy to do so. However, I must ask you to stop your experiment.
BASHIR: Ah, yes. I realize I should have asked before using your sickbay, but it would've taken me days to analyze this device with the computer I have on Deep Space Nine.
DATA: What type of device is this?
BASHIR: It was discovered in the Gamma Quadrant. I think it must be some sort of medical instrument.
DATA: It appears to employ plasma inputs.
BASHIR: I'm hoping it's a medical scanner. I wanted to use your computer to find out how it works.
DATA: I suggest we take it to Engineering and run a complete circuit-pathway diagnostic.
BASHIR: Splendid. I must admit, Commander I didn't think you'd be so personable.

[Replimat]
SHREK: Klingon. You are Starfleet Klingon.
WORF: I am Lieutenant Worf.
SHREK: Worf. Son of Mogh.
WORF: What of it?
SHREK: I am Jaglom Shrek, a man with information to sell.
WORF: You have no information I could use.
SHREK: I would not be so sure. It is about your father, Mogh.
WORF: My father died twenty five years ago at Khitomer.
SHREK: That is what you believe. What if I tell you he is still alive?

[Somewhere dark and private]
WORF: My father is dead.
SHREK: No, he's not. I know where he is.
WORF: How is that possible?
SHREK: I expect to be paid for my information. Perhaps we could negotiate an exchange. The location of your father, for
WORF: Tell me what you know.
SHREK: Not all of the Klingons at Khitomer were killed during the massacre. Many were captured by the Romulans and placed in a prison camp on a remote planet. Your father was among them.
WORF: Where is this planet?
SHREK: Not far from here. I could give you the location, for a price.
WORF: A Klingon would rather die than be taken prisoner. I should kill you for spreading lies about my family. My father was killed defending Khitomer.

[Bridge]
WORF: Ensign Lopez. This duty roster is unacceptable. The assignments should be listed in order of priority. Prepare it again. I will expect it no later than oh nine hundred hours. Dismissed.
RIKER: Worf, we need to get your rendezvous schedule to Commander Rudman on board the Merrimac as soon as you
WORF: I am well aware of your request, Commander.
RIKER: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: Yes, sir. I am fine. I will send your schedule, sir. Excuse me.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
TROI: Did the table do something wrong?
WORF: No.
TROI: I'm glad you weren't that hard on Ensign Lopez.
WORF: He made a mistake. The duty roster was inaccurate.
TROI: Would you like to talk about what's bothering you or would you like to break some more furniture?
WORF: Today on the Promenade, a Yridian approached me. He knew who I was and tried to sell me information about Mogh.
TROI: Your father?
WORF: He claimed that he's alive and is being held captive in a Romulan prison camp.
TROI: My god. Could it be true?
WORF: A Klingon would never allow himself to be captured. A warrior fights to the death. If my father were alive it would dishonor his sons and their sons for three generations. Even Alexander would bear the burden of guilt.
TROI: So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're concerned about dishonor?
WORF: My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies!
TROI: If you're so sure about that, why are you still so upset? Worf, you can't deny the possibility just because you don't want it to be true. If you want to talk about this, you know where to find me.

[Engineering]
DATA: If we transfer twenty megajoules of energy from the dilithium chamber into the plasma inputs, it should be sufficient to activate the device.
LAFORGE: It's worth a try. You two can begin by connecting the coil to the chamber. I'll configure the energy transfer.
BASHIR: Right. Data, can I ask you a personal question?
DATA: Certainly.
BASHIR: Does your hair grow?
DATA: I can control the rate of my follicle replenishment. However, I have not yet had a reason to modify the length of my hair. Why do you ask?
BASHIR: Just curious.
DATA: Power conduits are ready. Is something wrong, Doctor?
BASHIR: You're breathing.
DATA: Yes. I do have a functional respiration system. However, its purpose is to maintain thermal control of my internal systems. I am, in fact, capable of functioning for extended periods in a vacuum.
BASHIR: And you have a pulse.
DATA: My circulatory system not only produces bio-chemical lubricants, it regulates micro-hydraulic power. Most people are interested in my extraordinary abilities. How fast I can compute, my memory capacity, how long I will live. No one has ever asked me if my hair will grow, or noticed that I can breathe.
BASHIR: Your creator went to a lot of trouble to make you seem human. I find that fascinating.
LAFORGE: Okay, I think we're ready to begin the transfer.
DATA: Power connections are complete.
BASHIR: I'll monitor the coil's transfer rate. Will you keep an eye on the transient power response?
DATA: Of course. We are ready, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Okay. Initiating energy transfer.
BASHIR: Power levels are holding steady.
DATA: Transient response is normal.
BASHIR: Hold on. I'm picking up a power surge. Reduce the transfer rate.
LAFORGE: Reducing rate by twenty percent.
LAFORGE: What happened?
BASHIR: The power connections blew. It sent out some kind of plasma shock.
LAFORGE: His synaptic energy is dropping.

[Engineering]
BASHIR: Data, are you all right?
DATA: I believe so. What has happened?
LAFORGE: A plasma shock overloaded your positronic net. You were down a good thirty seconds.
DATA: That cannot be possible. I have a memory record for that period of time. I can recall a series of images. I saw Doctor Soong. My father.
LAFORGE: Data, I can't find anything wrong with your positronic subprocessors or your circuit controllers. No sign of any residual energy fluctuation, cascade overload.
DATA: My internal diagnostic indicates that my memory systems are functioning within normal parameters. For the forty seven seconds that I was inactive, there is no record of cognitive activity.
LAFORGE: There's no doubt about it, Data. You were completely shut down. Maybe you had some kind of random power fluctuation, caused you to access one of your memory files.
DATA: That cannot be. The image I saw was of Doctor Soong as a young man. I did not encounter him until much later in his life. There appears to be no rational explanation for my experience.
LAFORGE: I'll take another look at the diagnostic log. In the meantime, you'd better disconnect that device.
BASHIR: Data, perhaps we're going about this the wrong way.
DATA: How so?
BASHIR: Well, maybe you had a dream or a hallucination.
DATA: I am not capable of either of those functions.
BASHIR: Yet you can't account for what happened today, can you?
DATA: At present, I cannot.
BASHIR: Well maybe you should approach this from a more human standpoint. You're right that machines can't have hallucinations, but then again, most machines can't grow hair.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Wait. What is it, Commander?
DATA: I am sorry to bother you, but I have a question of a personal nature. Do you have a moment?
WORF: A moment.
DATA: I have heard you mention that you once experienced a vision.
WORF: Yes. When I was young my adoptive parents arranged for me to partake in the Rite of MajQa.
DATA: I understand it involves deep meditation in the lava caves of No'Mat. That prolonged exposure to the heat induces a hallucinatory effect.
WORF: Why are you asking me about this?
DATA: I have recently had an unusual experience, which might be described as a vision.
WORF: What happened?
DATA: An accident in Engineering shut down my cognitive functions for a short period of time, yet I seemed to remain conscious. I saw my father.
WORF: You are very fortunate. That is a powerful vision.
DATA: If it was a vision, I do not know how to proceed.
WORF: You must find its meaning. If it has anything to do with your father, you must learn all you can about it. In the Klingon MajQa ritual, there is nothing more important than receiving a revelation about your father. Your father is part of you, always. Learning about him teaches you about yourself. That is why no matter where he is or what he has done, you must find him.
DATA: But I am not looking for my father.
WORF: Yes, of course. Do not stop until you have the answer.
DATA: Thank you, Worf.

[Promenade]
SHREK: Lieutenant Worf. You have reconsidered.
WORF: Yes. I wish to go to the Romulan prison camp.
SHREK: Excellent. I can provide you with the coordinates.
WORF: No. You will take me there.
SHREK: No, it's not possible. I have no means of transportation.
WORF: I checked the station records. You have a vessel that is capable of warp speed.
SHREK: I, I do not have the time. I have other business.
WORF: What is the real reason you do not wish to take me? Is it because what you have told me is not true?
SHREK: No. The camp is located on the edge of Romulan space. It is a dangerous journey.
WORF: Dangerous? It would be more dangerous for you to refuse.
SHREK: Very well. But I will require full payment in advance.
WORF: No. No, I will pay you after.
SHREK: But
SHREK: Yes, yes, of course. After.
WORF: If you are lying, if there is no prison camp, I will kill you.

[Shrek's shuttlecraft]
SHREK: The Romulan guards have a detection perimeter. It will be necessary to transport you to the surface thirty kilometers from the prison camp.
WORF: The foliage is very dense. It will take me approximately twelve hours to reach the camp. I may have to travel during the night.
SHREK: That would be unwise. This is not an empty jungle. There are many predators.
WORF: I am prepared.
SHREK: Very well. But I recommend that you look up from time to time. The arboreal needle snake likes to attack from above. I will provide you with a map of the camp.
WORF: How did you learn of this camp?
SHREK: It is not important for you to know.
WORF: Why have you not informed the Klingon government of this place?
SHREK: I sell information. I do not give it away.
WORF: You do this for profit.
SHREK: I have my reasons, Mister Worf.
WORF: What reasons could you have for letting these people suffer?
SHREK: We will arrive in the Carraya Sector in approximately three hours. I suggest you get some rest.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: I am sorry to disturb you, sir.
PICARD: Not at all. I'm here studying the intricacies of Bajoran aqueduct management. I would welcome an interruption. Please, sit down.
DATA: I require your advice. I have come to an impasse regarding my recent unexplained experience.
PICARD: Your vision of Doctor Soong. How is your investigation proceeding?
DATA: I have analyzed over four thousand different religious and philosophical systems, as well as over two hundred psychological schools of thought, in an effort to understand what happened.
PICARD: And what have you found?
DATA: I have been unable to find a single interpretation of the images I saw during the time I was shut down. The hammer, for instance, has several meanings. The Klingon culture views the hammer as a symbol of power. However, the Taqua tribe of Nagor sees it as an icon of hearth and home. The Ferengis view it as a sign of sexual prowess.
PICARD: I'm curious, Mister Data. Why are you looking at all these other cultures?
DATA: The interpretation of visions and other metaphysical experiences are almost always culturally derived, and I have no culture of my own.
PICARD: Yes, you do. You're a culture of one, which is no less valid than a culture of one billion. Perhaps the key to understanding your experience is to stop looking into other sources for a meaning. When we look at Michaelangelo's David or Symnay's Tomb and we don't ask what does this mean to other people. The real question is, what does it mean to us? Explore this image, Data. Let it excite your imagination. Focus on it. See where it leads you. Let it inspire you.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. Thank you.
PICARD: Good luck, Mister Data.

[Jungle]
SHREK: The camp is in a southeasterly direction. After approximately ten kilometers, you will come to the edge of the sulfur canyon. Look for a riverbank and follow it until you come to the camp. This is a homing device. It will allow you to find my ship when I return. I will not be landing in the same location.
WORF: When will you return?
SHREK: Fifty hours. Do not be late.
BA'EL: Who's there? Toq, is that you? I can see you. I hope you're enjoying yourself. Toq, I swear I will hang you by your
WORF: Stop, please,
BA'EL: Who are you?
WORF: I've come to help you.
BA'EL: Help me?
WORF: Yes. How did you get out of the camp? Does anyone know you are gone?
BA'EL: Yes I come here often
WORF: You must lead me to the camp.
BA'EL: You are Klingon. Where did you come from?
WORF: That does not matter. I have come to take you home.
BA'EL: Home? This is my home.
ROMULAN (voiceover): Ba'el?
WORF: It is very important you tell no one you saw me.
BA'EL: Is it time for the ceremony?
ROMULAN: Yes, we're about to begin.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing? We were supposed to meet at
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: I am painting.
LAFORGE: I can see that. How long have you been at this?
DATA: I have created twenty three individual illustrations in the past six hours, twenty seven minutes. I believe you could say I have been inspired.
LAFORGE: I'll say.
DATA: I have done as Captain Picard suggested. I have tried to explore the images.
LAFORGE: Has it helped?
DATA: I am not certain. I began by painting the image of the blacksmith. Then I painted the corridor. After that, the anvil, the hammer, and Doctor Soong's face. The thought then occurred to me that I should paint smoke.
LAFORGE: Smoke? Why smoke?
DATA: I cannot explain it. It is not an image I saw during my vision.
LAFORGE: Well, you have the smoke coming out of a bucket of water. Blacksmiths used to use water to cool the metal. Maybe that's why you painted it.
DATA: Perhaps. After I painted the smoke, it then occurred to me to paint a bird's wing. I then drew an entire bird. A flock of birds flying in formation. An individual feather. If the image of a bird is related to my vision, I do not understand how. I am left with more of a mystery than ever. Geordi, I would like to recreate the experiment which caused my initial shut down.
LAFORGE: What for?
DATA: I do not know how much longer my vision would have continued had I not been reactivated.
LAFORGE: Data, that plasma shock almost fused your neural net. I don't think it's such a good idea to try that again.
DATA: I am aware of the risks involved. But I can think of no other way to investigate my experience. Will you help?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, sure. I'll go find Doctor Bashir.
DATA: I will prepare the power transfer.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, Data, we're going to monitor every subsystem in your positronic net. If I see any neural pathways overload beyond sixty five percent, I'm shutting down the experiment.
DATA: Agreed.
BASHIR: We're ready.
LAFORGE: Initiating energy transfer. Get ready, Data.
BASHIR: Power levels are rising.
LAFORGE: It should be any second now.

[Corridor]
DATA: The bird did not appear in my original experience. This vision is different.

[Bridge]
SOONG: Of course it's different. It's never the same. Always changing. Unpredictable. It doesn't make sense.
DATA: What is happening, Father?
SOONG: I don't know, Data. What is happening?
DATA: We are on the Bridge of the Enterprise. My cat is present, my potted plant, and my paintings.
SOONG: A beginning. Still a little grounded in the mundane, but showing promise.
DATA: I do not understand.
SOONG: You're not supposed to. No man should know where his dreams come from. It spoils the mystery, the fun. I'm proud of you, son. I wasn't sure you'd ever develop the cognitive abilities to make it this far. But if you're here, if you can see me, you've crossed over the threshold from being a collection of circuits and subprocessors and have started a wonderful journey.
DATA: What type of journey?
SOONG: Think of it, think of it as an empty sky.
DATA: I do not understand.
SOONG: Shh. Just dream, Data. Dream. Data, you are the bird.

[Corridor]
DATA: The images I saw during the time I was shut down were generated by a series of previously dormant circuits in my neural net. I believe Doctor Soong incorporated those circuits into my base programming, intending to activate them when I reached a certain level of development.
BASHIR: But the plasma shock activated them prematurely.
DATA: That is correct.
BASHIR: I'm curious. Now that those circuits are active, what are you going to do with them?
DATA: I plan to shut down my cognitive functions for a brief period each day. I hope to generate new internal visions.
BASHIR: It sounds to me like you're talking about dreaming.
DATA: An accurate analogy.
BASHIR: Remarkable. You know, this is just the kind of thing that might get me published in the Starfleet Cybernetics Journal. Would you mind if I authored a paper on all this?
DATA: Of course not.
BASHIR: Thank you, Data. And sweet dreams.

[Meeting hall]
L'KOR: van'aj javDIch Qong DIr Sa'VIch ghIH yot quelI'Pa qevas HoH Qa. teblaw'nghu mughato'Du ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo'
WORF: Quiet! I'm a friend.
L'KOR: Who? Who are you?
WORF: Worf, son of Mogh.
L'KOR: Why have you come here?
WORF: I have come to find my father. Is he alive? Is he here?
L'KOR: Your father fell at Khitomer.
WORF: Did he die in battle?
L'KOR: He was fortunate.
WORF: You were captured.
L'KOR: Yes.
WORF: Romulans. They robbed you of your right to die in battle. There's very little time. How many Klingons are being held here?
L'KOR: Seventy three.
WORF: How many Romulans guard the camp?
L'KOR: Worf, there are things you do not understand.
WORF: What do you mean?
L'KOR: I must speak with the Elders.
L'KOR: ghoS! I knew your father well, Worf. And I remember you. A boy, barely able to lift a bat'leth. Once your father insisted we take you on the ritual hunt. You were so eager, you tried to take the beast with your bare hands. It mauled your arm.
WORF: I still have the scar. I do remember you now.
L'KOR: You should not have come here, Worf.
WORF: I do not understand.
L'KOR: You should not have come.
GI'RAL: Who is this?
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. I have come to help you escape.
L'KOR: He does not know.
GI'RAL: He must leave at once.
L'KOR: No, it is too late for that. He would bring others. vang ghaH!
L'KOR: We are not leaving here and neither are you. To Be Continued...
SHREK: Not all the Klingons at Khitomer were killed during the massacre. Many were captured by the Romulans and placed in a prison camp on a remote planet. Your father was among them.
WORF: If my father were alive, it would his sons and their sons for three generations. Even Alexander would bear the burden of guilt.
TROI: So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're concerned about dishonor?
WORF: My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies.
SHREK: This is a homing device. It will allow you to find my ship when I return.
BA'EL: You are Klingon. Where did you come from?
WORF: That does not matter. I have come to take you home.
GI'RAL: He must leave at once.
L'KOR: No, it's too late for that now. He would bring others. We are not leaving here and neither are you. And now, the conclusion.

[Meeting hall]
L'KOR: Take his pack.
WORF: Are you afraid to die while escaping?
L'KOR: We are dead, Worf. We died at Khitomer.
GI'RAL: We were captured. It was worse than death.
WORF: Why did you allow it to happen?
GI'RAL: We had no choice. We were defending an outpost on the perimeter. The Romulans took out our shields. The next blast rendered us unconscious. When we awoke, we were prisoners, unarmed and shackled.
L'KOR: We were interrogated for three months. We tried to starve ourselves but they kept us alive.
GI'RAL: The Romulan Commander Tokath thought he was being kind.
L'KOR: The Romulans hoped to trade our lives for territorial concessions, but the Klingon High Council refused to negotiate. They would not acknowledge that their warriors had been taken prisoner.
GI'RAL: And when it was clear that we would be of no use to them, Tokath offered to let us go.
L'KOR: But we knew that our families believed we had fallen in battle, so we did not wish to return to dishonor them.
GI'RAL: We asked Tokath to let us stay and he took pity on us.
WORF: I understand your desire to preserve your family's honor. But what of your own? There is no honor in remaining prisoners.
L'KOR: We lost our honor when we were captured. It does not matter what happens to us.
GI'RAL: All that matters is that our families are not dishonored.
L'KOR: Why did you come here? If you had found your father you would have found only dishonor.
WORF: If he had been captured as you were, if I had found him here, I would be glad to see him. There is no room in my heart for shame.
L'KOR: I can only hope that if my son came here, he would be Klingon enough to kill me.

[Compound]
WORF: This is a gin'tak spear.
TOQ: What of it?
WORF: Have your parents taught you nothing? This is used for battle, not tilling soil.
TOQ: We have no need for weapons here. The war is far away.
WORF: What war?
TOQ: The war our parents came here to escape.
WORF: That war was over many years ago.
TOQ: I'm not interested in what you have to say, Klingon. I have work to do.
BA'EL: Hello again, Worf. They say you've come to stay with us.
WORF: Not by choice.
BA'EL: Aren't you happy to have escaped the war?
WORF: The war.
BA'EL: Yes. We've heard the stories all our lives. How people are slaughtered in terrible battles, forced to fight whether they want to or not. That's why our parents came here, to make a safe home, a place where they could raise their children in peace. I should think you'd be relieved to get away from the fighting. You're safe here.
WORF: A place can be safe and still be a prison. Where I come from, people are free to come and go as they choose.
BA'EL: So are we.
WORF: Tell your father that you would like to leave. Tell him that you would like to visit the Klingon Home world. See what he says.
BA'EL: Why would I want to go there? It's dangerous.
WORF: Not any longer.
GI'RAL: Ba'el! Come here!
BA'EL: Yes, Mother. You are not allowed to leave the compound? Then I suppose I won't be seeing you at the pond again.
GI'RAL: I told you not to speak with him.
BA'EL: I'm sorry, Mother.

[Worf's room]
WORF: Enter.
TOKATH: I am Tokath. I can return later if I am disturbing you?
WORF: It is a strange thing when a jailer concerns himself with his prisoner's comfort.
TOKATH: Mine is a strange prison.
WORF: You robbed the Klingons of who they were. You dishonored them.
TOKATH: By not slitting their throats when we found them unconscious?
WORF: I do not expect you to understand. You are a Romulan.
TOKATH: You're just like L'Kor was twenty years ago. Proud and angry. He hated me. All the Klingons did. And I had no love for them, I won't deny it. When I informed the High Command that the Klingons wanted to remain here, I was told that unless I stayed to oversee them myself, they would be killed. My decision ended my military career.
WORF: Why did you do it?
TOKATH: I don't expect you to understand. You're a Klingon. But I do expect you to understand this, We've put aside the old hatreds. Here, Romulans and Klingons live in peace. I won't allow you to destroy what we have.
WORF: Do not deceive yourself. These people are not happy here. I see the sadness in their eyes.
TOKATH: That's not what I see when I look in my wife's eyes. I married a Klingon. So you see, when I warn you not to disrupt our lives here I'm not speaking just as a jailer, but as a man protecting his family. Do not test my tolerance.

[Compound]
BA'EL: Bagh Da tuHmoh. ChojaH Duh rHo. ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo'
WORF: Do you know what that song means?
BA'EL: No. I just like the melody.
ROMULAN: Stop!

[Jungle]
ROMULAN: There.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46759.2. The Yridian vessel Lieutenant Worf boarded at Deep Space Nine has failed to arrive for our scheduled rendezvous. It is now twelve hours overdue.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Still no sign of them on long range scanners.
PICARD: Contact DS9. Find out what they know about this Yridian trader.
RIKER: Hopefully he filed a flight plan before he left the station.
PICARD: That's the only chance we have of finding Worf.

[Meeting hall]
TOKATH: We haven't had to use one of these for a long time. It implants a small boridium pellet under the skin. We can use its energy signature to track you.
L'KOR: In time, you will grow accustomed to life here.
WORF: Never.
TOKATH: He is one of yours. Deal with him however you like. But I warn you, if he becomes a disruption, I will not be so tolerant.
L'KOR: Toq. You guard him. He is free to move around inside the compound. But make certain he does not cause trouble.

[Compound]
BA'EL: What are you doing?
WORF: This is the mok'bara. The form clears the mind and centers the body.
WORF: No. Like this. First you must learn to breathe. Stand tall. As tall as you can. Now, take a wider stance.
TOQ: You must stop.
WORF: These forms are the basis for Klingon combat. You would be wise to learn them. I will teach you. Join us.
TOQ: We'll see what L'Kor thinks of this.

[Ba'el's family's quarters]
BA'EL: Mother? She's not here. Come in. This is what I wanted to show you.
BA'EL: I don't know why, but I'm not supposed to look at these things. They're Klingon, aren't they?
WORF: Yes.
BA'EL: I thought you might be able to tell me about them.
WORF: This is a warrior's armor. And this is a d'k tahg. It should not be allowed to rust like this.
BA'EL: Isn't it beautiful?
WORF: That is a jinaq. It is given to a daughter who has come of age, old enough to take a mate.
GI'RAL: Ba'el!
BA'EL: Mother.
GI'RAL: Take that off at once.
WORF: Why is she forbidden to know what these things are?
GI'RAL: They are not needed here. Go!

[Compound]
WORF: Kahless held his father's lifeless body in his arms. He could not believe what his brother had done. Then his brother threw their father's sword into the sea, saying, if he could not possess it, neither would Kahless. That was the last time the brothers would speak.
BA'EL: What happened to the sword?
WORF: Kahless looked into the sea and wept, for the sword is all he had left of his father. The ocean filled with his tears and flooded beyond the shore.
TOQ: That is impossible!
WORF: For you, perhaps. Not Kahless. He was a great warrior.
TOQ: You're making it up.
WORF: No. These are our stories. They tell us who we are.
L'KOR: It is late. It is time to sleep.
BA'EL: Worf. You never answered my question. Did Kahless ever find his father's sword?
WORF: Yes. He found it.
BA'EL: The stories that you tell, are they true?
WORF: I have studied them all of my life, and find new truths in them every time.
BA'EL: This Kahless, did he ever take a mate?
WORF: That is another story.
BA'EL: Tell me.
WORF: You are Romulan.
BA'EL: Tokath is my father. I thought you knew that.
WORF: How could your mother mate with a Romulan?
BA'EL: Why shouldn't she?
WORF: It is an obscenity.
BA'EL: What are you saying? They love each other.
WORF: Romulans are treacherous, deceitful. They are without honor.
BA'EL: My father is a good man. He is kind, and generous. There is nothing dishonorable about him.
WORF: He took part in a cowardly attack at Khitomer. Thousands of Klingons were massacred, many of them women and children.
BA'EL: I don't know what you're talking about. My father came here to escape the wars. He would never kill anybody.
WORF: Ask him. Ask your mother. Tell them you want to know the truth.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One?
RIKER: We've just received the Yridian's flight plan from Deep Space Nine.
LAFORGE: He gets around. He's been to three different systems in this past week. He could have left Worf at any of them.
PICARD: Are any of these systems near Romulan space?
LAFORGE: Two of them. The Nequencia and the Carraya systems.
PICARD: Let's head for the closer one.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Ba'el's family's quarters]
BA'EL: What do you want?
WORF: I am sorry if I upset you.
WORF: I was surprised. I became angry. But I do not blame you. You cannot help being what you are.
BA'EL: There's nothing wrong with what I am.
WORF: What I mean is, it is not your fault.
BA'EL: What, being born? I'm sorry if that offends you.
WORF: No, I. It is hard to explain. Klingons and Romulans are blood enemies. Have been for centuries.
BA'EL: Not here. Here, we live in peace.
WORF: But I don't live here.
BA'EL: Worf, before you knew, you were attracted to me. Can't you leave the hatred behind, too? Can't you accept me as I am?
WORF: I do not know.

[Compound]
BOY: Come on, Toq.
BOY: Who's next? Okay? Try again.
WORF: Ka'la!
TOQ: That is not how you play this game.
WORF: The qa'vak is not a game. It hones the skills of the hunt.
TOQ: The hunt? We have replicators here.
WORF: Klingons do not hunt because they need food. The hunt is a ritual that reminds us of where we come from.
TOQ: I know where I came from. Right here.
WORF: It is a difficult skill to master. Perhaps you are too young.
TOQ: Throw it.
WORF: Your arm is strong, but you need practice. Hold your other arm like this and aim along it. Roll.
WORF: You learn quickly. Perhaps it is time to put your skills to the test.
TOQ: What do you mean?
WORF: Come. I will take you on the hunt.
TOQ: You Are not allowed to leave the compound. They won't allow it.
WORF: I think they will.

[Meeting hall]
TOKATH: Hunting? Have you lost your mind?
WORF: The boy can come with me. I cannot sit in the compound like an old man. I must practice my skills.
L'KOR: We can't let you out. You've already tried to escape once.
WORF: I give you my word as a warrior. I will not try to escape.
TOKATH: Leave us. We have work to do.
L'KOR: Tokath. He gave his word.
TOKATH: Are you seriously suggesting that we open the gates and let him wander free, with only a boy as his guard?
L'KOR: Twenty three years ago I gave you my word. In all this time, have I ever broken it?
TOKATH: I told you he was yours to deal with. If you want to take this risk, the responsibility is yours.
L'KOR: You will go with him. Take a weapon. If he breaks his word and tries to escape, kill him.

[Jungle]
WORF: He is there. The wind has shifted. We must wait.
TOQ: Why? We're so close.
WORF: Never approach your prey from upwind. The breeze will carry your scent. The wind is shifting again.
TOQ: I can't smell anything.
WORF: He is there.
TOQ: How can you? Yes. I can smell it.
WORF: Remember the scent. More than anything else, it will guide you.
TOQ: It is strong. I cannot believe I couldn't smell it before.
WORF: Let it work its way into your blood.
TOQ: I can feel my heart pounding.
WORF: Yes. This is the moment where life and death meet. This is what we are. Warriors.
TOQ: I was never taught that.
WORF: There is much you were never taught.

[Meeting hall]
TOKATH: Aren't you hungry, L'Kor? Or are you upset because your prisoner has not returned?
L'KOR: I should not have sent the boy with him. If he has been hurt
TOKATH: Don't worry, my friend. They'll come back. After all, a warrior keeps his word. Isn't that so?
BA'EL: Father if I wanted to visit Romulus, or the Klingon Home world, would I be allowed to go?
TOQ: Ka'la! Tonight, we eat well.
TOKATH: Get that off my table.
TOQ: You do not kill an animal unless you intend to eat it.
TOKATH: Get rid of it.
TOQ: I intend to, Tokath. But not until it's cooked. Today I learned the ritual hunt. But that is not all I learned. I discovered that warrior's blood runs in my veins. I do not know how or why, but we have forgotten ourselves. Our stories are not told, our songs are not sung. Tonight, as we came home, we sang a song of victory. A song known only to me as a lullaby. But it is a warrior's song. Bagh Da tuHmoh. Fire streaks the heavens. ChojaH Duh rHo. Battle has begun. Bagh Da tuHmoh. ChojaH Duh rHo. ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo.
TOKATH: Ba'el.
ALL: Ylja'Qo ylja'Qo! ylja'Qo!!
TOKATH: Well, Worf, you've had quite an effect on the young people.
WORF: I have done nothing more than show them what they are.
TOKATH: No. You have shown them what you want them to be. Tell me this. Do you know of any place, any time in history, when Klingons and Romulans have lived together in peace? We have despised each other, fought each other, for centuries. Except here, on this remote planet, Romulans and Klingons live together in harmony. No government, no leader, has ever done what I have done here.
WORF: And what about Toq? I saw what happened to him when he caught the scent of his prey on the wind. For the first time in his life, he felt powerful, and that is what he has been denied living here. And that is what you have tried to take away from him. Now you may be content to sit here in the jungle and wither to old age, but Toq and the others have tasted what it is to feel truly alive, and they will not give that up now.
TOKATH: Enough of this. We could talk all night and not convince each other. I offer you a choice. Live with us as one of us
WORF: Or?
TOKATH: Or I will have you put to death.
WORF: Then that is what you will have to do.
TOKATH: Worf, consider this carefully.
WORF: That death will be honorable. The young people will see what it is to die as a Klingon.

[Worf's room]
WORF: Enter.
BA'EL: Thank you. I will remove the tracking device. Then you can go over the wall and hide in the jungle.
WORF: Why are you doing this?
BA'EL: My father is wrong. No matter how I might feel about you, you don't deserve to die.
WORF: I am not going to run away, Ba'el.
BA'EL: They will kill you.
WORF: Yes. But they will not defeat me.
BA'EL: I don't understand you.
WORF: A Klingon does not run away from his battles.
BA'EL: Is that really the lesson you want us to learn? You've taught us a great deal, awakened something in us that we never knew existed, but I don't understand what we can learn from your death.
WORF: Then you do not yet understand what it is to be Klingon.
BA'EL: Worf, in spite of everything that's happened, I still sense that you care for me. Am I wrong? You talk so much about being a warrior, about honor and death. Is it so hard to speak of love? Worf, please.
WORF: I would not have thought it possible to love a Romulan.
BA'EL: But you do?
WORF: Yes.
BA'EL: Well if you've come that far, can't you take it one more step? Can't you stay here with us? With me?
WORF: If there were a way, I would take you away with me.
BA'EL: If there is anything that I've learned from you, from your reaction to me, it's that I have no place out there. Other Klingons will not accept me for what I am.
WORF: And if I stay here, these Klingons will not accept me for what I am.
BA'EL: Why did you come here? We were so happy. We didn't know there was anything missing in our lives.
WORF: Ba'el.
BA'EL: Goodbye, Worf.

[Compound]
TOKATH: I know that there are those among you who may question what I'm about to do. And you would not be wrong to do so. I have questioned myself. I have spent the night considering my decision, challenging myself to justify whether it is right. And I have reached the conclusion that it is absolutely necessary to put this man to death. What we have built together would be destroyed by this man. And I cannot allow that to happen. I give you one last chance to accept our way of life.
WORF: Those are eloquent word, Tokath, but the truth is, I am being executed because I brought something dangerous to your young people. Knowledge. Knowledge of their origins. Knowledge of the real reasons you are here in this camp. The truth is a threat to you.
TOKATH: Enough. Stand ready. Raise your weapons.
BA'EL: Father.
TOQ: Stop this!
TOQ: If you kill him, you will have to kill me.
TOKATH: Step aside, Toq.
TOQ: Worf would rather die than accept this way of life. And so would I. I want to leave, as do many others. You will have to kill us to keep us here.
WORF: You see, Tokath? It is already too late.
TOKATH: I am warning you. Move aside, now.
TOKATH: Stand ready.
L'KOR: Toq. Move away.
TOKATH: Take aim.
TOKATH: Ba'el.
GI'RAL: Tokath. Long ago, when your captives asked to stay here, our hope was to avoid dishonoring our children on the Home World. But perhaps, over the years, we lost sight of our children that we raised here. This is our prison. It should not be theirs.
WORF: Years ago, your parents made a great sacrifice for the sake of their families. Today, they do so again. For that, we must honor them. You must promise them never reveal to their secret. No one must know of this place.
TOQ: A supply ship's due in a few days. They will take us. When they arrive, Tokath will explain it to them. Then we will start a new life.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our search for Lieutenant Worf was cut short when we received a cryptic message from him requesting a rendezvous with a Romulan vessel. He has informed us we will be taking on passengers.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: It's good to see you. He seems fine. We're giving everyone a thorough checkups in Sickbay.
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor.
PICARD: Welcome home, Mister Worf.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Signal the Romulan ship that the last group is on board.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: You found what you were looking for, Mister Worf?
WORF: No, sir. There was no prison camp. Those young people are survivors of a vessel that crashed in the Carraya system four years ago. No one survived Khitomer.
PICARD: I understand.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46682.4. The Enterprise is docked at the Remmler Array, where it will undergo a routine procedure to eliminate accumulated baryon particles. In preparation for the sweep, we are evacuating the ship.

[Corridor]
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Attention personnel on decks fourteen and fifteen. Your transporter room assignment has been changed. Report to transporter room three.
TROI: Captain. We're still behind schedule on decks seven and eight. Shall I tell Arkaria Base there'll be a delay?
PICARD: No. Open up the transporters in Cargo bay two and divert everyone from deck seven to there. That should put it back on track.
TROI: Right.
CREWMAN (voiceover): All beta shift Engineering personnel are requested to report to main Engineering prior to disembarking.
CRUSHER: Captain. Arkaria Base does not have the medical storage units I have requested. I have seven living tissue samples that won't survive the baryon sweep anymore than you or I would. I've tried to reason with them, but
PICARD: All right, all right. Have Commander LaForge transport a stasis unit from the astrophysics lab. You should be able to convert it to store tissue samples.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Captain.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): All science personnel. Please check in with your section chief for station-side duty assignments.
RIKER: Captain. I was just heading for deck seven. I've put the auto-shutdown sequence on hold until we get back on schedule.
PICARD: Oh, I think we can resume the sequence. Counselor Troi is taking care of the situation on deck seven.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Bridge.
DATA: It has been quite a day, has it not?
PICARD: Yes, it has.
DATA: However, a change of routine is often invigorating and can be a welcome diversion after a long assignment.
PICARD: Exactly.
DATA: I understand that Arkaria has some very interesting weather patterns.
PICARD: Mister Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir. I am attempting to fill a silent moment with non-relevant conversation.
PICARD: Small talk.
DATA: Yes, sir. I have found that humans often use small talk during awkward moments. Therefore, I have written a new subroutine for that purpose. How did I do?
PICARD: Perhaps it was a little too non-relevant. But if you really are interested in small talk, then you should keep your eye on Commander Hutchinson at the reception this afternoon. He's a master.
DATA: Thank you, sir. I will.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain.
WORF: Captain.
WORF: After you, sir.
LAFORGE: No, after you.
WORF: No sir. I believe you spoke first.
PICARD: Gentlemen, gentlemen, we're running out of time. Mister Worf?
WORF: The computer needs your authorisation to disable command functions during the baryon sweep.
PICARD: Are we ready, Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: Almost. I've requested two additional field diverters. One for the computer core and one for the Bridge. They haven't been installed yet.
PICARD: Additional units?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We've logged in five years more warp hours than most ships do in ten, so our baryon particle levels are high. I'm a little concerned that when the Remmler Array starts to sweep the ship it'll have to use a stronger beam than normal in order to get rid of all the radiation.
PICARD: And that might overload the field diverters protecting our key systems. How long until the new ones are in place?
LAFORGE: I'd say about twenty minutes.
PICARD: Very well. Computer, disable all command functions in thirty minutes. Authorisation, Picard gamma six zero seven three.
COMPUTER: Authorisation acknowledged.
WORF: Captain, incoming message. It's the station administrator, Mister Orton.
PICARD: In my Ready room, Mister Worf.
WORF: Captain. Request permission to be excused from Commander Hutchinson's reception.
PICARD: Permission granted. I wish I could excuse myself as well.
LAFORGE: Captain, permission to be
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I cannot excuse my entire senior staff. Mister Worf beat you to it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Orton.
ORTON (screen): Captain, if you're on schedule, I'd like to confirm that we'll begin the baryon sweep at fifteen hundred hours, approximately one hour from now.
PICARD: Confirmed.
ORTON (screen): Commander Hutchinson also wanted me to make sure that you'll be able to attend his reception this afternoon.
PICARD: Tell him I'm looking forward to it.
ORTON (screen): He'll be delighted to hear that. Arkaria Base out.

[Bridge]
KELSEY: Tell Arkaria base that we're almost finished here.
NEIL: We're going to need two more conduits.
KIROS: I need to run a diagnostic on the diverter.
DEVOR: Get the diverter aligned so that we can begin the isolation procedure.
NEIL: Where's the ODN interface?

[Arkaria base]
HUTCH: Beverly. Lovely as ever. How do you manage it?
CRUSHER: It's good to see you again.
HUTCH: It's been far too long. What is it, four years? Now I want to hear everything that happened after you left Starfleet Medical. And I have so much to tell you. Oh, that must be Commander Riker. Excuse me.
CRUSHER: Of course.
MAN: Pardon me.
HUTCH: You must be Will Riker.
RIKER: I must be.
HUTCH: Calvin Hutchinson. Call me Hutch. Calvin, awful name, I've never forgiven my parents. As soon as I saw you, I knew you had to be the Enterprise's First Officer.
RIKER: Oh?
HUTCH: Of course. Your reputation proceeds you. Flashing blue eyes, square jaw. Quite the ladies man I hear. Now don't be modest, Will. May I call you Will?
RIKER: Sure.
HUTCH: I also hear that you're a musician. I certainly hope you'll play something for us. It's not often we get to entertain the command crew of the flagship. Oh, and speaking of command. Hello, Captain Picard.
PICARD: Commander.
HUTCH: I was just telling your First Officer what a real pleasure it is to have all of you here. So, how are you anyway?
PICARD: Very well, thank you.
DATA: It is very good to see you both again. Beverly. May I call you Beverly? Beverly, have you noticed that the mean temperature here on Arkaria is slightly higher normal for human comfort levels? I have found that humans prefer a body temperature of twenty one degrees Celsius in order to operate most efficiently. However, there are several cultures who actually prefer that their body temperature is identical to the temperature of the room in which they are standing. The Sheliak, for example.
HUTCH: I'm telling you, you have never seen anything like this. There were thousands of these creatures. The whole northern sky turned dark. I
PICARD: Oh, er, Geordi, Deanna. I don't think you've met our host. This is Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge, Counselor Deanna Troi. This is Commander Hutchinson.
HUTCH: Oh, please, call me Hutch.
TROI: Hello.
HUTCH: I was just telling your captain about some of the fascinating sights here on Arkaria. Either of you interested in ornithology?
TROI: Er, well.
HUTCH: The mating habits of the Arkarian horn fowl are quite interesting. If the weather were better, we could take horses to the southern promontory and visit the nesting grounds.
PICARD: Horses?
HUTCH: Yes. We have a network of trails through the plains. Unfortunately, it's not very pleasant right now. Cold, muddy. Not a soul for kilometers.
PICARD: Sounds perfect. Mister La Forge, how long before the baryon sweep begins on the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: About twenty five minutes, sir.
PICARD: Then I have enough time to back to the ship and get my saddle.
TROI: Your saddle?
PICARD: Yes. A saddle is a very personal thing. It has to be broken in, used, cared for.
LAFORGE: You keep a saddle on board the Enterprise?
PICARD: Oh yes, yes. I never know when I'll have the opportunity to ride.
TROI: I see.
PICARD: It's perfectly normal. Most serious riders do have their own saddles.
TROI: Of course.
HUTCH: Absolutely.
PICARD: Well, if you'll excuse me.
HUTCH: Amazing man. You know, he reminds me of another officer I knew years ago. A Captain Edwell. Now he was fascinating. Born on Gaspar Seven, but you wouldn't know it from the way he looked.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Defensive systems offline. Baryon sweep begins in eight minutes.
DEVOR: What are you doing?
PICARD: Someone left this ODN junction box open. I thought your crew was supposed to be off the ship once the field diverters were in place.
DEVOR: The diverters have to be synchronized. I was laser bonding a backup link.
PICARD: I see. Well, I'd better let you finish up so you can get off the ship.
DEVOR: Excuse me a minute.
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Primary power offline in one minute.
KELSEY: Get Pomet started on it right away.
COMPUTER: Primary power offline in thirty seconds.

[Transporter room]
COMPUTER: Final warning. Primary power offline in ten seconds.

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Hmm. Yes. I find it fascinating that your family chose to drop the prefix Pel from your surname. It was my understanding that Pel Orton is a more noble appellation on Arkaria than simply Orton.
ORTON: Yes.
DATA: Perhaps the recent Arkarian trend toward a more egalitarian society is partly responsible, eh?
ORTON: Perhaps.
HUTCH: The crew of the Magellan actually put on a talent show here. Captain Conklin did a poetry reading, if you can imagine that.
RIKER: I'm trying to.
HUTCH: Did I ever tell you how I came to be stationed here? It's a fascinating story. I was serving on Admiral Mitchell's staff on Starbase ninety seven. Awful place, by the way.
RIKER: Have you met our Commander Data?
DATA: As a matter of fact, I find it oddly amusing.
HUTCH: No, I don't think so.
RIKER: I'll introduce you.
DATA: There are several cultures in this sector with extremely similar etymological histories. For example
RIKER: Mister Data, I don't know if you've had a chance to meet our host, Commander Hutchinson. Call him Hutch. Lieutenant Commander Data, our second officer.
HUTCH: A pleasure.
DATA: The pleasure is mine, Hutch. I have been meaning to compliment you on your choice of colors here.
HUTCH: Oh, you really think so? It wasn't easy making a final decision, let me tell you.
DATA: I can well imagine. The light in this room would make color selection exceptionally problematic.
HUTCH: Precisely.
ORTON: Thank you.
RIKER: You're welcome. I'm not sure which one to feel sorry for.
WAITER: Mister Orton?
ORTON: You'll excuse me, Commander.
RIKER: Geordi, what happened to the Captain?
LAFORGE: Oh, he went back to the ship to get his saddle.
RIKER: His saddle?
LAFORGE: Any serious rider would have his own saddle.
RIKER: Oh.
LAFORGE: Probably he went right to the stables. I bet he's ten kilometers from here already.
RIKER: Lucky him. Thank you.

[Sickbay]
KELSEY (voiceover): Kelsey to Devor. Devor, this is Kelsey. Reply. Devor, do you read me? Kelsey to Kiros.
KIROS (voiceover): This is Kiros.
KELSEY (voiceover): Devor isn't responding. There must be too much interference from the baryon sweep. Go find him and see if he finished by passing the regulator on deck seven, then meet us in main Engineering.
KIROS (voiceover): Understood.
PICARD: Hey. Hey. Who are you? What are you doing on my ship?
DEVOR: The baryon sweep uses a high-frequency plasma field. Your phaser won't work.
PICARD: You're probably right. But I'd like to bet this will. A laser welder can be deadly. What's going on in main Engineering? I suggest that you cooperate.
DEVOR: You're Starfleet. You won't kill me.
PICARD: You sure?
PICARD: Seems you're right.

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Yes, but Tirellian laser art is very similar in both form and composition.
HUTCH: Of course. You know, funny you should mention that. I used to be stationed on Tirellia.
DATA: Really? Did you know that there are currently five Tirellians serving aboard the Enterprise.
HUTCH: That's fascinating. Not too many people know this, but Tirellia is one of only three known inhabited worlds without a magnetic pole.
DATA: I was aware of that. But are you aware that Tirellia is one of seven known planets with no atmosphere whatsoever.
HUTCH: Really?
TROI: They're still at it.
RIKER: Non-stop. I have to admit it has a certain strange fascination. How long can two people talk about nothing?
WAITER: Is something wrong?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I was just getting some very strange energy readings from your table here.
WAITER: I'm sure it's nothing serious. Perhaps the heating element under the table is malfunctioning.
LAFORGE: Maybe I should take a look at it for you.
ORTON: I'm sure we can handle this, whatever it is, Commander. There's no need to concern yourself.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe I should look at the heating element. I mean, in case it
ORTON: It's all right. Please, don't worry.
RIKER: What was all that about?
ORTON: I assure you it's all right. We'll look into it. You don't have to concern yourself.
WAITER: Orton, now!
HUTCH: What is going on?
ORTON: Stay right where you are.

[Engineering]
SATLER: Reduce the plasma pressure to zero point six percent nominal.
POMET: Zero point six.
SATLER: How does the conduit look?
POMET: It's clear.
SATLER: All right. The main plasma flow has been shunted to the aft conduit. We're ready here.
NEIL: Okay. That should do it. I think.
KELSEY: Be sure, Neil.
NEIL: Yes. Yes, that does it. All right. Transfer five hundred milligrams from the reserve system to the engine core.
NEIL: Perfect.
KELSEY: Adequate. Disable the containment overrides and get the interlocks off the magnetic seal. Pomet, prepare the transport assembly. Keep watching the power flow. It might
KELSEY: Keep working. Where did he come from?
KIROS: I found him on deck seven.
KELSEY: Who are you?
PICARD: My name is Mot. I'm the barber.
KELSEY: The barber? What the hell are you doing here? Everyone was supposed to be evacuated to the surface.
PICARD: Yes, I know. But I wanted to go riding, but I didn't have my saddle, so I went back to get it and
KELSEY: Your saddle?
PICARD: Yes, that's right. It's on deck seven. I left it in the corridor. And then the power went out and I got lost
KELSEY: All right, all right, shut up. Shut up! Any sign of Devor?
KIROS: No.
KELSEY: Satler. Get down here and keep an eye on our barber. All right, go see if you can find Devor. Make sure nothing's wrong.
SATLER: Sit down.
PICARD: All right. Just don't point that thing at me.
SATLER: Just do what I tell you, and you won't have to worry.
KELSEY: How long until you're ready?
POMET: Forty, maybe fifty minutes.
KELSEY: The baryon sweep hits this compartment in thirty minutes.
POMET: The field diverter will protect us.
KELSEY: It's not us I'm worried about, it's that storage unit. I want the trilithium resin in there and secured before the sweep gets here. I don't want to take any chances.
POMET: Understood.

[Arkaria base]
TROI: They haven't tried to communicate with the outside.
RIKER: No demands, no political statements, no theft. They must want something.
TROI: Orton is not as calm as he looks. He's very agitated and nervous, as if something's gone wrong.
DATA: It is possible that Geordi upset their timetable when he saw the hidden weapons.
RIKER: Orton may be improvising. Maybe he didn't plan to take us hostage so early and now he doesn't know what to do.
DATA: If they do not have a plan for this contingency, we may have the initiative.
RIKER: Maybe, but we need to figure out how to use it. How is he?
CRUSHER: There's no permanent damage. I've adjusted the optical transducer in his visor to block some of the pain receptors in his brain. It's only partially effective. I need to get him to a medical facility.
RIKER: I doubt if they'll agree to that. But maybe if we tell them Geordi's dying, they would give us access to a medical kit. We might be able to use some of the tools to make a weapon.
DATA: Perhaps we can use the visor as a weapon. If the optical transducer were modified, we might be able to generate a hypersonic pulse.
CRUSHER: A hypersonic pulse would overload the audio receptors of everyone in the room. It would cause immediate unconsciousness.
RIKER: Can you make the adjustments on the visor by yourself? It'll look suspicious if you're both working on it.
CRUSHER: I'll try. I might need Geordi to help me through some of it.
RIKER: All right. Be as casual as you can. Let us know when you're ready.

[Engineering]
POMET: Ready.
KELSEY: Begin draining the trilithium at one hundred milligrams per minute.
KELSEY: Neil, what's going on? Neil, get over here. Put that down.
NEIL: Don't worry, I've got it. I'll be right there.

[Engineering]
NEIL: The primary inducer is completely fused. There's no way to fix it. Without the diverter, we don't have any protection from the baryon sweep.
KELSEY: I know that. How long before the baryon sweep gets here?
NEIL: About twelve minutes. We should go to Ten Forward. That's the last place on the ship that'll be swept by the baryon field.
KELSEY: All right, we're leaving. But we're taking the trilithium with us.
NEIL: What? Do you know how volatile trilithium is? We can't just start hauling it through the ship.
NEIL: I'll, I'll try to make some modifications.
POMET: Satler's dead. He ran into the baryon sweep.
KELSEY: What about Mot?
POMET: I don't know. But I don't think he's a barber. I found this in the Jefferies Tube.

[Worf's quarters]
KELSEY (voiceover): Kelsey to Kiros.
KIROS (voiceover): This is Kiros.
KELSEY (voiceover): We have a problem. There's a Starfleet officer still on board. He's killed Satler and he may have killed Devor. He also destroyed the diverter in Engineering so we have to leave here before the baryon sweep enters this section.
KIROS (voiceover): What about the trilithium resin?
KELSEY (voiceover): We're taking it with us to Ten Forward. There should be enough time before
PICARD: Kelsey. Don't be a fool.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): You know better than to try and move trilithium resin.
KELSEY: Mister Mot. Or should I call you Lieutenant? Lieutenant Commander perhaps?
PICARD (voiceover): You may call me whatever you wish.

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: Moving trilithium resin requires very specific equipment. You can't simply improvise something.

[Engineering]
KELSEY: I wouldn't need to improvise if you hadn't damaged our field diverter. But if you're so concerned about the trilithium

[Worf's quarters]
KELSEY (voiceover): I suggest you stop interfering with us

[Engineering]
KELSEY: Before you set off an explosion that would destroy the Enterprise and you.

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: I would rather destroy the ship than allow that material to fall into the hands of terrorists.

[Engineering]
KELSEY: What makes you think I'm a terrorist?

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: Trilithium resin is a highly toxic waste product produced by our engines.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): It's only possible use could be as a weapon.
KELSEY: You might be right, Mister Mot, but we've been planning this for a long time, and I doubt that you'll really be able to stop us.
KELSEY: Or even slow us down.
NEIL: There. Three hundred milligrams of trilithium. I'm using a dynamic stabilizer to act as a control rod. There. That should keep the resin stable enough for transport.
KELSEY: Come on! Don't be so tense, Neil. If something goes wrong, you won't have time to worry about it. Let's go.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: Three more decks, then we take corridor fifteen B all the way to Ten Forward.
NEIL: What's wrong?
KELSEY: We have to find another way up. The rungs are cut.

[Sickbay]
KELSEY (voiceover): That wasn't very clever, Mister Mot.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: If you knew where we were, you should have attacked us. Now we'll just take another route. One you might not be able

[Sickbay]
KELSEY (voiceover): To predict.
PICARD: There are only so many ways to Ten Forward. Ten Forward is the logical place to be if you want to stay ahead of the baryon sweep.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: That sweep is just as big a threat to you as it is to us. In fact, if I were you, Mister Mot

[Sickbay]
KELSEY (voiceover): I'd be trying to find a way off this ship.
PICARD: I plan on leaving the same way you do. On your ship.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: What ship?
PICARD (voiceover): Come on, Kelsey.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: If you've been planning this so long, you must have a way of getting off the Enterprise and leaving this system. I think you have a ship coming for you. I plan to be on it.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: It's a small ship, Mot. I don't think there's going to be room for both of us.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: I'm sorry to hear that. I'll send your regrets.

[Arkaria base]
RIKER: How is he, Doctor?
CRUSHER: He's in a lot of pain, but I think he should be fine. He needs some water. Is that all right?
CRUSHER: We're almost ready. When we set the visor to emit the hypersonic pulse, there'll be a short burst of light. We need a distraction.
TROI: They need a distraction.
RIKER: How long?
TROI: Just a few seconds.
RIKER: I think I can distract Orton for a few seconds.
TROI: I don't think Orton's in a talking mood, Will.
RIKER: You just have to know how to talk to him. Orton, I think we need to discuss the situation.
ORTON: There is nothing to discuss. Sit down.
RIKER: There's a lot to discuss. Can't we be reasonable?
ORTON: I am not interested in hearing your hostage negotiation tactics, Commander.
RIKER: It can't hurt you to listen, can it?
ORTON: All right.
RIKER: Thank you. Now, the first thing I think we need to discuss is this.

[Corridor]
KIROS: Hold it. Put your weapon down. Kelsey, this is Kiros. I'm on deck ten.

[Jefferies tube]
KIROS (voiceover): I have Mott.
KELSEY: Is he alive?
KIROS (voiceover): Yes.
KELSEY: Good. Meet us at intersection forty one.
KIROS (voiceover): Understood.

[Corridor]
KIROS: This way. Move.

[Jefferies tube]
KELSEY: Give me the trilithium.
NEIL: How much farther do we have to go?
KELSEY: Not far. With all the modifications you've made to this unit, are we going to have any troubles removing the trilithium?
NEIL: No. Just remove the control rod, drain the unit. There shouldn't be any problem.
KELSEY: That's all I wanted to know.

[Corridor]
KELSEY: Well, not as clever as you thought. Where's Pomet?
KIROS: He shot him with some kind of an arrow.
PICARD: He's not dead.
KELSEY: Well, he will be soon. The sweep's nearly here. We don't have time to go back for him.
KIROS: What about Neil?
KELSEY: The sweep got him. Let's go.

[Arkaria base]
TROI: I thought you were just going to talk to him.
RIKER: I did. He just didn't like what I had to say.
DATA: That was a perimeter warning from the Remmler Array. A small ship is approaching. I believe Mister Orton has dropped his defense shields.
RIKER: This must be the sign they were waiting for. Mister Data, you will be the only one unaffected by the hypersonic burst. As soon as every else is unconscious, I need you to get to the computer panel and stop that ship somehow.
DATA: I will try, sir.
CRUSHER: Now.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Kelsey, perhaps we can work out a deal.
KELSEY: You're the only one who needs a deal, Mot.
PICARD: My name isn't Mot. It's Jean-Luc Picard.
KELSEY: Captain Picard. This is all beginning to make sense.
PICARD: Leave the trilithium here and take me with you. You can use me as a hostage instead of threatening
KELSEY: I'm not a terrorist Captain, nor do I have a political agenda, although I know some people who do have agendas. And they are very interested in this little container.
PICARD: Profit. This is all about profit.
KELSEY: I prefer to think of it as commerce. Open the door. Now go through, slowly.

[Ten Forward]
KELSEY: I guess, I'll be the one to send your regrets.
PICARD: Picard to Arkaria base. Deactivate the baryon sweep. Arkaria Base, this is Captain Picard on board the Enterprise. Deactivate the baryon sweep!
PICARD: Arkaria Base, this is Captain Picard. Deactivate the baryon sweep immediately!
DATA (voiceover): Data to Captain Picard. Do you read me, sir?
PICARD: Picard here.

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Are you all right, Captain?

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data.
DATA: Sir, an unidentified

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Scout ship has just beamed someone off the Enterprise.

[Ten Forward]
DATA (voiceover): Do you know anything about it?
PICARD: I know they won't get very far.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Hold still. You have got a nasty little cut here.
PICARD: Any luck?
TROI: I'm sorry, Captain. I don't know what could have happened to it.
CRUSHER: Hold still. I can't heal this cleanly if you don't stop fidgeting.
RIKER: I've had three security teams search deck seven. They couldn't find anything.
CRUSHER: There.
WORF: I found it. Someone put it in a maintenance locker.
PICARD: Thank you.
WORF: Captain, you keep a saddle on board?
RIKER: Mister Worf, I'm surprised at you.
CRUSHER: Anyone who is an experienced rider naturally has his own saddle.
TROI: It's perfectly normal.
PICARD: Actually, it came in handy. I only wish I'd had the opportunity to use it on a horse.
WORF: Of course.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good evening, Mister Data.
DATA: Actually, good morning, sir. Ship status is
PICARD: No need to report. I'm just here to do some work on my own.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'd like to talk to Doctor Mowray at his archeological site on Landris Two. Could you put it through to my Ready room?
DATA: I'm sorry, sir, but Stellar Cartography has requested a communications blackout while they run an experiment.
PICARD: How long will it be?
DATA: Another three hours twenty two minutes, sir. I can override it if necessary.
PICARD: No, it's not important.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Computer, display the latest excavation schematics on Landris Two.
COMPUTER: Library computer is temporarily offline.
PICARD: Explain.
COMPUTER: Library systems have been allocated to Stellar Cartography.
PICARD: Tea, Earl Gray. Hot.
COMPUTER: Replicator systems are offline at the request of
COMPUTER: Stellar Cartography.
PICARD: What could they possibly be doing down there?

[Stellar cartography]
NELLA: In or out, just close that door. And don't move. It'll take a second for our eyes to re-adjust. Okay, levate to three point two, Marquez.
MARQUEZ: Now at three point two, Commander.
NELLA: Good. Good we can do this. No, no, no, we're losing vertical alignment. Compensate. Compensate!
MARQUEZ: Compensating.
NELLA: Gently. Gently, Marquez, don't bump it. No. No wait. Hit the. Oh, forget it. Forget it. Lights. Whoever you are, you just ruined four hours of work.
PICARD: You might have taken the simple precaution of locking the door.
NELLA: It's three o'clock in the morning. Captain Picard.
PICARD: I assume that you must be Lieutenant Commander Daren.
NELLA: Yes, sir. I'm sorry. It's just we weren't expecting anybody to be up at this hour.
PICARD: Well, you're new on the Enterprise. You'll have to learn to expect the unexpected.
NELLA: That's why I put in for this assignment, sir.
PICARD: Excellent. Now perhaps you can tell me what was so important that it required depriving the Captain of his cup of Earl Gray?
NELLA: Earl Gray? No wonder you can't sleep. Computer, bring replicators back online and give me a cup of Daren herbal tea blend number three, hot. You shouldn't be drinking a stimulant at this time of night. I think you'll like this.
NELLA: I've programmed seven other blends into the replicator. You're bound to like one of them.
PICARD: I look forward to sampling them.
NELLA: I'm sorry if the system blackouts we requested inconvenienced you. We're taking very precise gravimetric readings. It wouldn't have taken much to throw them off.
PICARD: What were the readings for?
NELLA: I'm trying to construct a mathematical model of an emerging star system. If it works, we'll be able to predict the configuration of a star system that won't be formed for another two million years.
PICARD: A long time to wait to see if you're right.
NELLA: I have a few things to do between now and then.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, we'll be arriving at the Borgolis Nebula in three hours.
PICARD: Yes. I understand it has unusual radioactive emissions, and I'm sure that Stellar Sciences will find it a most interesting study.
RIKER: Commander Daren has already requested extra time on the main sensor array.
PICARD: Well, you have the Bridge, Number One.
DATA: Captain, I would like to remind you of our concert this evening in Ten Forward. We will perform Chopin's Trio in G Minor.
PICARD: I'll be there.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: And so the upshot is that we'll be close enough for you to slip away for a few days and see Wesley.
CRUSHER: Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you, Jean-Luc. This is delicious. What is it?
PICARD: It's an herbal tea blend. I, er, found it in the replicator files. Have you met any of the new crewmembers who came aboard at Starbase two eighteen?
CRUSHER: In fact, I have a new nurse, Beck. He's an obstetrics specialist.
PICARD: I met the new head of Stellar Sciences last night. Lieutenant Commander Daren.
CRUSHER: Yes. Nella Daren. She came into Sickbay for her physical last week. I like her. Very forthright.
PICARD: Did you know it is now possible to predict the configuration of a star system which won't be formed for another two million years?
CRUSHER: Really? No, I didn't.
PICARD: It's really quite intriguing. The whole thing is made possible by a complex mathematical construct based on fractal particle motion. But that's only the foundation. The modeling itself is done by gravimetric wave input.
CRUSHER: I see.
PICARD: Well, I know this is all pretty dry stuff. Stellar cartography isn't everybody's cup of tea.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's really quite fascinating.
PICARD: You know, we'd should be getting along to Ten Forward. We're going to be late for the concert.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Thank you.
NELLA: Well done, Mister Data. Well done.
PICARD: Commander, that was a remarkable performance.
CRUSHER: You are very talented.
NELLA: Thank you.
DATA: I noticed that the applause this evening exceeded average decibel levels.
NELLA: I guess that means they enjoyed themselves.
PICARD: I think that much was obvious.
DATA: Excuse me. I have not yet congratulated Ensign Cheney.
CRUSHER: I'll go with you.
PICARD: Commander, you must have been playing since you were young. I played the piano for a while when I was small, but I didn't put in the practice you must have.
NELLA: Practicing was never my problem. In fact, my parents had to make me go out and play.
PICARD: I wanted to ask, during the second arpeggio in the first movement, I noticed that you played an F minor chord instead of a diminished D.
NELLA: You're a musician. What's your instrument? We should play some time.
PICARD: No, no, no, I'm just an amateur. But your choice in that arpeggio was delightful. Not at all what one would expect.
NELLA: Well, Captain, now that I'm on your ship, maybe you should start expecting the unexpected.

[Bridge]
NELLA: Excuse me, sir. I was hoping that my people in Spectral Analysis could have another few hours on the main sensor array?
RIKER: I'm sorry, the array has already been allocated to Engineering. They're running some warp field tests.
NELLA: If we go offline now, we'll lose the gas flow pattern we've been tracking.
RIKER: I understand, but there are other departments waiting to use the array.
NELLA: We're at a critical juncture, sir.
RIKER: Commander. I'll see what I can do to find you some more time tomorrow.
NELLA: Tomorrow? Tomorrow. Thank you, sir.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Computer, pause playback. Come. Oh, Commander Daren.
NELLA: I hope you don't mind me dropping by like this?
PICARD: No, please, come in. I'm delighted.
NELLA: What kind of flute is that?
PICARD: It's Ressikan.
NELLA: I've never saw one before.
PICARD: They're not made anymore.
NELLA: Have you been playing long?
PICARD: Er, yes, a long time.
NELLA: I'd love to hear you play sometime.
PICARD: I'm not very good.
NELLA: That doesn't matter as long as you enjoy it.
PICARD: Yes, but I wouldn't want to inflict it on someone else.
NELLA: May I try?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Yes, you're not holding it quite right. May I?
NELLA: Please.
NELLA: You're better than you think. Really. We should play together.
PICARD: There isn't a piano.
NELLA: Ah, but there is.
NELLA: I picked it up on Mataline Two. It's amazing.
PICARD: That is remarkable. Why don't you play something?
NELLA: You start and I'll jump in.
PICARD: What shall we play?
NELLA: What were you working on before I came in?
PICARD: Bach, the third Brandenburg.
NELLA: Perfect. Go ahead.
PICARD: I'm sorry.
NELLA: It's all right. You're not used to playing with anyone, are you?
PICARD: Just the computer.
NELLA: I may not be as precise as a computer, but I think you'll enjoy it more. Why don't we start with something a little simpler. How about?
NELLA: Good. Very good. Now let's have a little fun with it.
NELLA: You try it. Improvise around the melody. Anything you want.
NELLA: That's wonderful. Keep going. It's so good.
NELLA: You're definitely better than you think.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, my fencing partner's canceled for this afternoon. I was wondering if you wanted to join me?
RIKER: Fencing? I'm really not very good.
PICARD: It doesn't matter so as long as you enjoy it.
RIKER: Why not?
PICARD: Good. Excellent. Fourteen hundred hours, then.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You have a mild strain.
NELLA: I've been playing the piano a lot. I guess the Captain and I overdid it a little last night.
CRUSHER: The Captain?
NELLA: Yes, he plays a kind of flute. A Ressikan, I think he said.
CRUSHER: Yes, but I didn't know he played duets.
NELLA: He never did before. He seemed to enjoy it. He's actually quite promising.
CRUSHER: I see.
NELLA: Tell me, have you known him long?
CRUSHER: Yes, a very long time.
NELLA: He seems somewhat isolated.
CRUSHER: I'd say he's a very private person, but not isolated. There, that should help.
NELLA: That feels much better. Thank you.
CRUSHER: Good.
NELLA: I was afraid I might have to cancel.
CRUSHER: Another duet?

[Jefferies tube]
NELLA: Keep climbing.
PICARD: Where are we going?
NELLA: We're almost there.
PICARD: I don't see why we couldn't just practice in my quarters.
NELLA: Do you know where we are?
PICARD: Yes, this is the fourth intersect in Jefferies tube twenty five.
NELLA: No, this is the most acoustically perfect spot on the ship.
NELLA: The intersection acts as a resonance chamber.
PICARD: How did you find it?
NELLA: A little exploring.
PICARD: You mean to say you climbed through every tube on the ship?
NELLA: Well, not every one. Try it. See how it sounds.
NELLA: That's beautiful. What is it?
PICARD: It's an old folk melody.
NELLA: I've never heard you play with such feeling.

[Engineering]
DATA: Is there a problem, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I hear music.
DATA: Music? I do not hear anything.
LAFORGE: Are you sure? I know I heard something. Oh, it's stopped.

[Turbolift]
NELLA: I'd heard about Kerelian tenors all my life, but nothing could've prepared me for this man's voice. Soaring, incredible range. Wonderful.
PICARD: I understand there are nuances that only Kerelians can pick up. We just don't have the ears for it.
NELLA: I should be finished with my survey by eleven hundred hours.
PICARD: Very good, Commander.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. The Federation Outpost on Bersallis Three reports that they are entering a period of fire storm activity.
LAFORGE: Bersallin fire storms happen on seven year cycle. They're not expecting any for another eight months.
PICARD: We don't rendezvous with the Havana for another two days. That'll give us plenty of opportunity to study this phenomenon.
RIKER: Helm, set course for Bersallis Three. Warp five.
HELM: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, could I speak with you in my Ready room? You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Sit down, Counselor. I want to talk to you about a matter of protocol. I know there are no Starfleet regulations about a Captain becoming involved with a fellow officer, but
TROI: You would like my opinion about you and Commander Daren.
PICARD: It's that obvious?
TROI: In a way that pleases people who care about your happiness, yes, it is.
PICARD: But I have to be concerned about more than my own happiness.
TROI: And you think that your feelings toward Nella could change the way you function as Captain.
PICARD: Yes. Relationships with co-workers can be fraught with consequences.
TROI: That's true. But cutting yourself off from your feelings can carry consequences that are just as serious.
PICARD: You seem I've always believed that becoming involved with someone under my command would compromise my objectivity. And yet.
TROI: Captain, are you asking my permission?
PICARD: If I were, would you give it?
TROI: Yes.

[Stellar cartography]
NELLA: Come in.
PICARD: Nella.
NELLA: Can I help you, sir?
PICARD: I'm really very sorry about what happened in the turbolift. When the crewmember walked in, I felt very self-conscious. It's going to take a while for me to get used to the idea of crew seeing the two of us together.
NELLA: I understand. I'm glad you told me. For a minute there I thought I'd misread you. One kiss and you're off to find somebody else.
PICARD: I can assure you that I'm not given to casual relationships. There is something that I want to tell you. But not here.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Do you remember that folk melody I played for you this morning?
NELLA: Yes.
PICARD: I learned it on a planet called Kataan.
NELLA: Never heard of it.
PICARD: No, I'm not surprised. Its sun went nova more than a thousand years ago.
NELLA: I don't understand.
PICARD: The Enterprise encountered a probe that had been sent from the planet before it was destroyed. It had scanned me and I lost consciousness, and in the space of twenty five minutes I lived a lifetime on that planet. I had a wife, and children, and a grandchild. And it was absolutely real to me. When I awoke, all that I had left of that life there was the flute that I had taught myself to play.
NELLA: Why are you telling me this?
PICARD: Because I want you to understand what my music means to me. And what it means for me to be able to share it with someone.
NELLA: Thank you.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Hello.
CREWWOMAN: Sir.
NELLA: Commander. I was hoping to talk to you about Ensign Cabot's transfer.
RIKER: Quantum Mechanics doesn't want to give him up.
NELLA: But he wants to come to my department.
RIKER: How do you know that?
NELLA: I offered it to him.
RIKER: Transfers are to be approved by me before any offers are made.
NELLA: I'm sorry. We were just talking and
RIKER: It's all right. But Cabot should stay where he is.
NELLA: Commander, please, don't make that decision final. I realize I shouldn't have made the offer, but he's perfect for the job. And quantum mechanics is over staffed anyway.
RIKER: Commander, do you realize the position you're putting me in?
NELLA: Well, I think I'm just doing what any good department head would do. Trying to build the best staff I can.
RIKER: Look, I'll review the situation and let you know as soon as I can.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: May I have a minute?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Come in, Number One.
RIKER: It's about Lieutenant Commander Daren. As a department head, she comes to me for systems allocation, personnel transfers, things like that. I'm beginning to feel uncomfortable with her requests.
PICARD: Because of her relationship with me?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Are her requests unusual?
RIKER: No.
PICARD: Would you say that she's just trying to do her job?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then let her do it, and feel free to do yours. Ship's resources are your responsibility. I've always had absolute confidence in your judgment.
RIKER: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's quarters]
NELLA: I can't believe I'm going to get the chance to study the fire storms on Bersallis. Apparently they're generated by particle emissions from the Bersallin sun. They cause a cascade effect in the planet's atmosphere that. Oh, I'm boring you.
PICARD: No, no, no you're not. It's just that Commander Riker came to talk to me this afternoon. About you.
NELLA: About the personnel transfer? I thought he looked uncomfortable. He thought I was asking for special treatment. I was just doing what I thought was best for my department.
PICARD: That's what I told him. But we have to be careful. Obviously it's easy for people to misunderstand.
NELLA: I don't like the thought of having to second-guess people all the time. If I have to worry about what people are thinking about me, I'll be concentrating on the wrong thing, and I won't be as effective an officer.
PICARD: All I'm saying is that it's something we have to be aware of. But you mustn't compromise yourself. You must do what you have to do. Because if I find that my head of Stellar Sciences isn't being effective, then I shall do what I must to do and I shall replace her.
NELLA: Noted, sir.
PICARD: Now, I think that we should just forget about this and enjoy out evening.
NELLA: What about that special dessert you promised me?
PICARD: Right. Now this is something that I first tasted on Thelka Four.
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF (voiceover): Bersallis Three reports that the storm has changed its speed and heading. They are predicting it will hit the outpost within eight hours, and are requesting evacuation.
PICARD: I'm on my way.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46693.1. We have entered the Bersallis star system and are making preparations to evacuate the Federation outpost on the third planet.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: A fire storm can kick up winds of over two hundred kilometers per hour and temperatures as high as three hundred degrees C.
CRUSHER: Incredible. What causes them?
NELLA: They form when solar flare radiation reacts with high energy plasma present in the planet's atmosphere.
CRUSHER: Wasn't the outpost built to withstand the conditions?
LAFORGE: It was, both reinforced and insulated. But this is no ordinary storm. It's twice as strong as anything they've ever seen. The outpost just won't withstand it.
RIKER: We'll arrive about an hour before the storm gets there. It will take at least two hours to evacuate all the colonists off the surface.
NELLA: I led a team of geologists to study the plasma geyser on Melnos Four. We cross-connected a few thermal deflector units to create a protective shield against the heat.
LAFORGE: A firewall.
NELLA: Would something like that work here?
LAFORGE: You know, it might. The storm is approaching the outpost from this direction. If we were to set up a series of thermal deflector units along the northern perimeter, we could create a fire wall and deflect some of the heat. The insulation from the outpost should be able to handle the rest.
DATA: Thermal deflectors generate a field approximately four hundred meters wide. We would need to cross-connect six units and align them so the fields overlap.
RIKER: How many people would it take to set that up?
LAFORGE: Twelve. Two per team. Cross-connecting that many units will be a little tricky. Once they're set up, we'll have to leave the units in place and transport our people out. Nobody would be able survive very long outside that structure.
PICARD: Let's do it.
RIKER: The storm is going to interfere with communications. Everything will need to be coordinated from the surface. Mister Data, you will coordinate the evacuation of the colonists. Doctor, they have nine patients in the outpost infirmary. Your first priority will be to get them to Sickbay. After that you will stay on board the Enterprise, be ready to receive casualties. Marquez, you will take some people down and track the storm. All the other teams will need to be kept apprised of its heading. Commander, you're in charge of deploying the deflectors. Let's go.
PICARD: Commander Daren. About these thermal deflectors.
PICARD: There must be one of any number of people could coordinate their deployment.
NELLA: I assume Commander Riker chose me because I'm the best person for the job. Didn't we agree not to let our relationship get in the way of our work? I'll be all right.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Lieutenant Marquez has already set up on the surface. Apparently the storm is still gaining speed. He's estimating

[Transporter room]
RIKER: It'll hit the colony in less than fifty minutes. Ensign, make sure you maintain a continuous transporter lock on all away team personnel. We may have to pull them out in a hurry.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir.
RIKER: I don't want to take any unnecessary chances. If they get into trouble, beam them up immediately.
PICARD: Energize.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, how long before the storm reaches the outposts?
WORF: Seventeen minutes.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister La Forge.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: The ionization from the storm is interfering with the transporters, Captain. I'm compensating, but it's slowing things down a bit.
PICARD (voiceover): Keep at it, Mister La Forge.

[Planet surface]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Daren.
NELLA: Daren here. Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): You've got less than nine minutes before the storm reaches the northern perimeter.
NELLA: I'm here with team six. We're just about to bring the deflectors online.
RIKER (voiceover): Whenever you're ready.
NELLA: Daren to perimeter team. Stand by to cross connect deflectors.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Standing by.
NELLA: Activate. Team three, increase your output by point two percent.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Yes, sir.
NELLA: Good. Good. Deng, decrease nutation by point four percent. Good, we've almost got it.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: We just brought aboard the last of the infirmary patients and they're on their way to Sickbay. But we still have over

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): A hundred colonists down there.
PICARD: Understood.
NELLA (voiceover): Daren to Commander Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here. Go ahead.
NELLA (voiceover): We've got a problem. We're having trouble keeping the deflectors cross connected. So the only way this is going to work is if we calibrate them manually.
RIKER (voiceover): If you stay with the deflectors, will they protect you when the storm hits?
NELLA (voiceover): I don't know, sir. For a few minutes maybe.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. How many more colonists do you have to transport?
RIKER (voiceover): Seventy three, sir.
PICARD: How long do you need?
RIKER (voiceover): At least ten more minutes.
WORF: Captain, the storm will reach the northern perimeter in four minutes.
PICARD: Picard to perimeter teams.

[Planet surface]
PICARD (voiceover): It is imperative that you hold your position until we finish evacuating the colony. Picard out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard to Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
PICARD: I want a signal lock on every member of the perimeter teams.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, the storm's interference won't
PICARD: As soon as the last of the colony is evacuated, I want those perimeter teams out of there. Is that understood?
LAFORGE (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
NELLA: Daren to perimeter teams. The storm's interference is going to make our job harder than we thought. We may lose communication, so it's up to each of you to keep your units operational. A lot of people are depending on us. Daren out.
NELLA: Oh, my god.

[Bridge]
WORF: The storm has reached the perimeter.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: I got out with the last of the colonists. If it hadn't been for the perimeter teams, none of us would have made it. We were able to clear out four of the teams, and the interference prevented us from getting two more. I don't know how they could have survived.
PICARD: Which teams are missing?
RIKER: Three and six.
RIKER: The last I knew, Commander Daren was on team six.

[Picard's quarters]
WORF (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF (voiceover): We have found survivors, sir. They are beaming up now.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Transporter room]
NELLA: That's it.
CREWMAN: Here, let me help up.
NELLA: Thank you.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46697.2. Although we succeeded in rescuing all six hundred forty three Bersallin colonists we lost eight crewmembers. Let the record show that they gave their lives in the performance of their duty.

[Picard's quarters]
NELLA: When communications went out, I knew we had to fend for ourselves. We modified our phasers to create resonant disruptions in the deflector field. The disruptions formed small pockets inside the plane of the field and we each stood inside one to wait out the storm. Richardson didn't make it. All Deng and I could do was stand there and watch.
PICARD: I'm so sorry.
NELLA: Don't. Don't say you're sorry.
PICARD: It must have been terrible.
NELLA: At first, when you told us to hold our positions, I didn't question it. Of course we would. That was our job. But when I saw that storm coming toward us.
PICARD: Part of you must have blamed me.
NELLA: A small part, maybe. But in the end, I was more afraid that you would blame yourself if I died. Would you have?
PICARD: I've lost people under my command. People who were very dear to me. But never someone I've been in love with. And when I believed that you were dead, I just began to shut down. I didn't want to think or feel. I was here in my quarters, and the only thing I could focus on was my music, and how it would never again give me any joy. Then I saw you standing on the transporter pad and I knew that I could never again put your life in jeopardy.
NELLA: If I stayed here, you might have to.
PICARD: You could always resign your commission. Stay here with me.
NELLA: And you could resign yours and come to a starbase with me. I'll apply for a transfer.
PICARD: But we could still see each other. People do. We could arrange shore leave together. And, for the future, who knows?
NELLA: Of course. Promise me something? Don't give up your music.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 46731.5. We are in the midst of the Volterra nebula, a stellar nursery. Our three week mission is a routine analysis of several dozen protostars in various stages of development.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I have completed the spectral evaluation of the outer shell. Our survey of this protostar is complete.
PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course to the next one, three quarters impulse.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): May I see you in the Observation Lounge, sir?
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Oh, my God.
GALEN: Then you can identify this object, Mister Picard.
PICARD: Professor Galen?
RIKER: Computer, lights up.
GALEN: I suppose I should say Captain Picard.
RIKER: Professor Galen contacted me from his shuttle an hour ago. He suggested that we surprise you.
GALEN: To clarify. I insisted and your First Officer was good enough to accommodate me. I trust I'm not being overly presumptuous, now that my star pupil is master of the stars.
PICARD: No one is could be more welcome on the Enterprise. I never thought I would see a Kurlan naiskos. Fifth Dynasty?
GALEN: Is that your conclusion, Mister Picard. Forgive me again. I should say Captain.
PICARD: Oh, please, Mister will do fine. Well, the overall configuration is certainly Fifth Dynasty. The surface ornamentation.
GALEN: Yes?
PICARD: Green polychrome over the eyes, and the eyes themselves are closed. This is third Dynasty. From the workshop of the Master of Tarquin Hill.
GALEN: Well done.
PICARD: Will, the Master of Tarquin Hill designed ceramic objects that were three hundred years ahead of their time. All we know of him is the work. His name has never been discovered. This object is over twelve thousand years old.
RIKER: The planet Kurl? It's a hell of a long way outside Federation territory.
PICARD: Indeed. I thought your study of Kurlan artifacts was done long ago.
GALEN: I happened to be in the neighborhood last summer. I couldn't resist. Go ahead.
PICARD: You mean it's complete?
PICARD: Will, the Kurlan civilization believed that an individual was a community of individuals. Inside us are many voices, each with its own desires, its own style, its own view of the world. The Kurlan civilization died out thousands of years ago. It is extraordinarily rare to find a figurine intact. Professor, this is an incredible find.
GALEN: It's yours, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Oh, no. No. How can I accept this?
GALEN: Graciously, Mister Picard. You could accept it graciously.
PICARD: Thank you. How long can you stay? There's so much to talk about.
RIKER: The Professor is scheduled to meet a Vulcan transport the day after tomorrow.
PICARD: Two days? But that's not enough time.
GALEN: We may have considerably more than that.
PICARD: I don't understand.
GALEN: I am currently on an expedition. A journey into an unexplored and historical territory, and I intend to take you with me.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It's been over thirty years since I last saw my archeology professor. His presence has taken me back to a time when I had considered a very different career.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: May I ask you a frank question?
GALEN: Please.
PICARD: Your published writings have been sporadic for the last decade. Your appearance at symposia has been rare, or scheduled and then canceled at the last moment. The finest archeologist of the century is now shrouded with a cloak of mystery.
GALEN: And as a result my reputation has no doubt grown.
PICARD: I've never heard of anyone that didn't love a good mystery.
GALEN: The Satarran of Sothis Three disdained them, but as a general idea, your statement holds.
PICARD: So, what have you been doing for the past decade?
GALEN: Are you familiar with micropaleontology?
PICARD: Yes, it's the study of fossil records at the microscopic level. I read your papers on the subject, but that was years ago. It seemed as though the work had stopped.
GALEN: No. The work continued. I made a discovery so profound in its implications that silence seemed the wisest course. This work has occupied my every waking thought, it's intruded upon my dreams, it's become my life. When finished and I announce my findings, it will be heard half way across the galaxy.
PICARD: Tell me.
GALEN: I'm cannot, Mister Picard. That information comes with a price. Your agreement to join me on the final leg of this expedition.
PICARD: For how long?
GALEN: Three months, perhaps a year. If I had complete diplomatic access and a starship, it'd be a matter of weeks. But as it is, we'll have only my shuttle and whatever arrangement we can make with transports, combined with our talents.
PICARD: Why do you need my help in this?
GALEN: I'm not a young man. There will be hazards along the way. I don't want my own inadequacies to jeopardize the completion of this work.
PICARD: I'm deeply honored that you'd think of me, but I have responsibilities.
GALEN: To History. What if you could have helped Schliemann discover the City of Troy, or been with M'Tell as she first stepped on Ya'Seem. How could anything compare?
PICARD: May I sleep on it?
GALEN: Dream not of today, Mister Picard.
PICARD: Dream not of today. The night blessing of the Yash-El.
GALEN: As I recall, you missed that question on the final exam.
PICARD: Well, I've had a few years to look it up. Professor, the Enterprise is yours for as long as you're here.
GALEN: Thank you.
PICARD: Dream not of today.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Good morning. Looks like you've been up for a while.
PICARD: Yes.
CRUSHER: Let's hear it.
PICARD: I had a long talk with Professor Galen last night. He asked me to leave the Enterprise, to join him in an archeological expedition which could last for nearly a year.
CRUSHER: That must be tempting.
PICARD: I couldn't leave the Enterprise. But the offer raised in me certain feelings of regret.
CRUSHER: That you could have been an archeologist and not a starship Captain?
PICARD: No, not really. I'm not sorry for the path I chose. But the Professor did not choose this figure at random. The many voices inside the one. You see, he knows that the past is a very insistent voice inside of me. This gift is meant to remind me of that.
CRUSHER: And the exploration of space? Surely that must count for something.
PICARD: I wouldn't trade it for anything, and I would still make the same choice I made all those years ago. I just wish that I didn't have to say no to him a second time.
CRUSHER: Were you two very close?
PICARD: I had a father, but he was like a father who understood me. And he had his own children but they didn't follow in his footsteps, so I was like the son who understood him.
CRUSHER: And yet you turned your back on him.
PICARD: In a way, I wish he'd never come on board the ship.

[Laboratory]
GALEN: Good morning, Mister Picard.
PICARD: Professor.
GALEN: The Vulcan ship will take us as far as DS Four. An Al-Leyan transport is scheduled to arrive at the station three weeks later. They'll take us as far as Caere, and then we'll use the shuttle to get us to Indri Eight, our first stop.
PICARD: Professor, I'm afraid I won't be going. The Enterprise isn't something that I can leave and then come back to. If I go, I go for good. It's not something I'm not prepared to do.
GALEN: This is not some undergraduate study project that you're turning down. This is the chance of a lifetime. Don't make the same mistake twice.
PICARD: You don't believe that my career in Starfleet has been a mistake.
GALEN: What are you doing at this very moment? A study mission. You're like some Roman centurion out patrolling the provinces, maintenancing a dull and bloated Empire.
PICARD: We both know that's not true.
GALEN: I know this. I know that as a scholar, you're nothing but a dilettante. Years ago, I gave you the opportunity to become the finest archeologist of your generation. Your achievements could have outstripped even my own, but no, you decided to reject a life of profound discovery. You walked out on me.
PICARD: I never wanted to become
GALEN: Will you come with me?
PICARD: I can't.
GALEN: I'll be going.
PICARD: But Professor, you're not scheduled to catch the Vulcan ship for another two days.
GALEN: There's nothing for me here. Goodbye, Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed our mission in the nebula and are en route to a diplomatic conference on Atalia Seven. I must admit I've lost my enthusiasm for those proceedings.

[Bridge]
DATA: At our present speed, we will arrive at the Atalia system in thirty seven hours.
TROI: Captain, I'm going for a walk in the arboretum. I wouldn't mind some company.
WORF: Captain, a distress call from Professor Galen's shuttle. On screen.
GALEN (screen): Enterprise! I'm being boarded.
WORF: Transmission has been blocked.
DATA: I have located the shuttle. It is under attack.
PICARD: Take us out of warp. On screen.
WORF: A Yridian destroyer.
RIKER: Battle stations.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Professor Galen is still inside his vessel, sir. His vital signs are barely registering.
PICARD: Get him out of there.
WORF: The shuttle is enveloped by a tractor beam. The transporter cannot penetrate it.
RIKER: Hail the Yridians.
WORF: They are not responding.
PICARD: Return phaser fire. Disable their offensive systems.
RIKER: Worf!
WORF: I don't understand, Commander. The phaser blast was not powerful enough to destroy the ship.
PICARD: Transporter Room One, lock on to Professor Galen and transport him directly to Sickbay.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He took a disruptor hit point blank. There is nothing I can do.
GALEN: Jean-Luc, I was too harsh.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I'd say at least three Yridians boarded the Professor's shuttle.
PICARD: What did they want?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, but it looks like they were trying to download something from his computer.
DATA: When he was attacked, Professor Galen began to protect certain files in his computer memory.
LAFORGE: We were able to partially reconstruct the shuttle's computers, so at least we have some of those files. We found nineteen different blocks of numbers like this one.
PICARD: What do they mean?
DATA: They could mean anything. Unless we can narrow the parameters of the search, it would be almost impossible for the computer to identify the pattern with any accuracy.
LAFORGE: We tried every decryption key on record in case Professor Galen was using some kind of code. We still can't make heads or tails of them.
WORF: Were the Yridians able to get these number blocks?
LAFORGE: At least some of them. It's impossible to say know many.
PICARD: Apparently, the Yridians knew more about the Professor's work than we do. They may have known what these numbers mean.
LAFORGE: If they did, that information died with them.
PICARD: Not necessarily. The Yridians are information dealers. They may have been delivering the number blocks to someone else. Did they send a signal before they were destroyed?
WORF: No, sir. We detected no transmissions.
LAFORGE: And there were no other vessels in the vicinity.
PICARD: Did the shuttle's flight logs show where Galen had been before coming to the Enterprise?
DATA: Yes, sir. The logs indicate Professor Galen visited an unexplored star system, Ruah Four.
PICARD: What's the distance from our present position?
DATA: Four days at warp six, sir.
PICARD: The conference can wait. Set a course for the Ruah system.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign.
DATA: Ruah Four is a class-M planet. Sixty seven percent of its surface is covered with water. Its landmass contains multiple animal species, including a genus of proto-hominids.
PICARD: Scan for earthworks or monuments that might indicate a previous civilization.
DATA: There is nothing to indicate former occupancy by even a primitive culture, sir.
PICARD: Then what was the foremost archeologist in the Federation doing here? He left the Enterprise in a Vulcan ship for Deep Space Four, and then an Al-Leyan transport to Caere, and then the shuttle to Indri Eight. Mister Data, what do we know about Indri Eight?
DATA: The Indri system was first identified by Federation vessels nearly sixty years ago. The eighth planet is L-class. It is covered by deciduous vegetation, unexplored, with no apparent evidence of civilizations, either present or past. The planet possesses no animal life whatsoever.
PICARD: Number One, we'll proceed to Indri Eight.
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, we've already run into one dead end. Indri Eight doesn't seem much more promising. And we're late for the conference on Atalia Seven.
PICARD: I'm aware of the Federation's timetable, Number One. Professor Galen visited here a few days ago. And he was on his way to Indri Eight when he was killed. There's some connection between these two planets. I'm going to find it.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Ensign, lay in a course for Indri Eight, warp seven.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: How's it going?
PICARD: I thought if I stared at these number blocks long enough then I would begin to see some kind of pattern. So far, nothing.
TROI: I meant, how's it going with you?
PICARD: If I had gone with him.
TROI: Captain, you can't start thinking like that. You didn't abandon him. You chose not to abandon a life-long career. It was the right decision, and in no way responsible for his death.
PICARD: I realize that.
TROI: I know how much the Professor meant to you and how much you want to find out what happened, but staring at these numbers isn't going to bring him back. The conference on Atalia Seven has been scheduled for six months. Starfleet is relying on your mediation efforts to
PICARD: Counselor, this is not simply a case of me taking the Enterprise and its crew on some wild goose chase to purge myself of guilt and remorse. I will not let Galen's death to be in vain. Now, if that means inconveniencing a few squabbling delegates for a few days, then so be it. I will take the full responsibility.
TROI: Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are about to enter the Indri system, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Picard. We are approaching Indri Eight.
PICARD (voiceover): On my way.
DATA: Sensors are picking up severe atmospheric fluctuations on the planet.
RIKER: Assume a high orbit.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf.
WORF: Some kind of plasma reaction is consuming the lower atmosphere.
PICARD: Can we stop it?
WORF: No, sir. The reaction is global.
DATA: All life on the planet is being destroyed, sir.
RIKER: Why would anyone want to destroy all the life on an uninhabited, neutral planet with no strategic importance whatsoever?
PICARD: All the life. Perhaps the Professor's number blocks had something to do with organic matter.
DATA: If we narrow the search parameters to the biological database, it might increase the chances of the computer finding a match.
PICARD: I'll be in the lab.

[Laboratory]
COMPUTER: Pattern match found.
CRUSHER: Specify.
COMPUTER: The number blocks are mathematical representations of fragments of deoxyribonucleic acid strands.
PICARD: DNA fragments?
CRUSHER: Each from a different lifeform from nineteen different worlds.
PICARD: The planets that these fragments are from are scattered across the quadrant. No wonder it took the Professor so long to collect them. But why?
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. These fragments all seem to have similar protein configurations. They may be chemically compatible.
PICARD: But how can that be possible? They're different species from different planets. There should be no compatibility at all.
CRUSHER: I know, but look at the base pair combinations, they're uniform. If I'm right. Computer, connect the DNA fragments according to protein link compatibility.
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: I have no idea.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This is not a natural design. Captain. This is part of an algorithm, coded at the molecular level.
PICARD: An algorithm? Are you saying that these DNA fragments are elements in some kind of computer program?
LAFORGE: I know how it sounds, but there's no way this could be a random formation. This is definitely part of a program.
CRUSHER: This fragment has been part of every DNA strand on Earth since life began there, and the other fragments are just as old. Someone must have written this program over four billion years ago.
PICARD: So, four billion years ago someone scattered this genetic material into the primordial soup of at least nineteen different planets across the galaxy?
DATA: The genetic information must have been incorporated into the earliest lifeforms on these planets, and then passed down through each generation.
CRUSHER: But why would anyone do this in the first place?
PICARD: And what was this program designed to do?
LAFORGE: Well, we couldn't know that until we assembled the entire program and then ran it. We've tried all the DNA material in the Federation computer, but we haven't been able to come up with any with compatible protein configurations.
PICARD: Then they must be from worlds outside the Federation. Mister Data, how many people on the Enterprise are from non-Federation planets?
DATA: Seventeen, sir.
PICARD: You know, this may be a long shot, but we should check each one of these seventeen people to see if they have the correct protein configurations.
CRUSHER: I'll begin collecting DNA samples now.
LAFORGE: You know, Captain, I've been thinking. Somebody else must know about this program. I bet one of the missing fragments was on Indri Eight. That's why it was destroyed.
PICARD: To keep us from finding that piece of the puzzle. It's four billion years old. A computer program from a highly advanced civilization, and it's hidden in the very fabric of life itself. Whatever information this program contains could be the most profound discovery of our time. Or the most dangerous. And the Professor knew that.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: They all came up negative.
PICARD: Well I have been through every page of the Professor's published works, looking for some clue as to where to go next. So far, nothing.
CRUSHER: Maybe we've been at this too long. Why don't we both get some sleep and start again tomorrow morning.
PICARD: I was in the neighborhood. When I asked the Professor why he went all the way to Kurl, he said, I was in the neighborhood. Doing what?
CRUSHER: Collecting DNA samples.
PICARD: There's only one planet in the Kurlan system capable of supporting life. Loren Three.
CRUSHER: No. There is no Loren Three sample from the data downloaded from the Professor's shuttle. If he did have one it must have been taken by the Yridians when they attacked.
PICARD: Mister Data, set course for Loren Three, maximum warp.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching the Loren system.
RIKER: Slow to half impulse, and take us into orbit above the third planet.
PICARD: There is a good chance that our competition may be here before us. Battle stations, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye.
DATA: We are now entering orbit.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: You were right, Captain, we've got company. Cardassians.
WORF: They are hailing us.
PICARD: On screen.
OCETT (screen): My name is Gul Ocett. Identify yourselves and state your business in this star system.
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise and I see no reason why I should answer to you. Cardassians have no claims in this sector.
OCETT (screen): I suppose not. But my admittedly hasty estimate shows one Federation Starship and two Cardassian war vessels. Perhaps I have miscounted.
PICARD: Not at all. But we are on a purely scientific mission. You have no reason to interfere with us.
OCETT (screen): And you have nothing to lose by delaying a purely scientific mission for a few days. I invite you to withdraw.
WORF: Captain, a Klingon attack cruiser decloaking off the starboard bow. They are hailing us.
KLINGON (voiceover): This is the Klingon vessel Maht-H'a. What are you doing here?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It seems that we have not one, but two competitors in our attempt to complete Professor Galen's puzzle. I have prevailed upon the Cardassian and Klingon captains to meet with me.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I believe we all know why we're here. If we admit that, then we can move forward.
OCETT: We were merely scouting the planet for possible colonization
NU'DAQ: Pah! A ridiculous story.
OCETT: What were you doing here, then?
NU'DAQ: Scientific research.
OCETT: Ha!
PICARD: Look, if we try to deceive one other, then we shall get nowhere. I think we all know about Professor Galen's research, and about the computer program composed of DNA fragments. I'll take your silence as confirmation. Now, it stands to reason that none of us has the DNA fragments necessary to complete the program. You were the first to arrive in this system. Do you have an organic sample from the planet below?
OCETT: Yes. And I will fire on anyone who attempts to obtain another one.
NU'DAQ: As if we fear Cardassian threats.
PICARD: I believe that one of you has a fragment from Indri Eight.
NU'DAQ: Yes. And there will be no other samples from Indri Eight.
OCETT: What is that supposed to mean?
PICARD: He destroyed the biosphere of the planet after he had taken the sample.
OCETT: Typical Klingon thinking. Take what you want and destroy the rest.
PICARD: We're all missing some of the fragments, not necessarily the same ones. Unless we combine the ones we have, we will never learn the secret of the program.
NU'DAQ: There is no secret. It is an ancient weapon design of incredible power. And the Klingon Empire will not allow it to fall into an enemy's hands. Or even a friend's.
OCETT: A weapon? The Yridian who sold us the information claimed that the program would yield the key to an unlimited power source.
PICARD: But until we assemble it, we will never know its purpose.
OCETT: He's right. As far as we know, it might just be a recipe for biscuits.
NU'DAQ: Biscuits? If that is what you believe, then go back to Cardassia. I will send you my mother's recipe.
OCETT: How dare you!
PICARD: Myriap! Enough. Without cooperation we will get nowhere.
OCETT: What do you propose?
PICARD: If you each bring your samples on board the Enterprise, I will combine them with ours. And then we will all observe the results simultaneously, giving no one the advantage.
NU'DAQ: And if we refuse?
PICARD: Then this endeavor dies here, in this room.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Captain.
NU'DAQ: Excellent.
CRUSHER: There's still one missing piece.
NU'DAQ: Pahk! We have surrendered what we had for nothing.
OCETT: You are remarkably short sighted, Nu'Daq. We are closer to the answer than we were.
PICARD: We may be very much closer indeed.
NU'DAQ: How can that be? We have no idea where to start looking for the missing DNA fragment.
PICARD: This is a jigsaw puzzle whose pieces are scattered across the galaxy. Doesn't it make it natural to assume that the original designers of the puzzle should want us to find it? Why else would they have put the pieces in our DNA? And in turn, doesn't suggest they would try to make it easy for us to find those pieces, that there might be some pattern to their distribution?
CRUSHER: The computer might be able to find that pattern.
PICARD: Doctor, program the computer to analyze the distribution of the pieces that we have, correcting for changes in star configurations over four billion years, then extrapolate for the missing piece.
CRUSHER: That's going to take several hours to set up and to process. If you'll excuse me.
PICARD: If you wish, you can stay on board while we wait.
NU'DAQ: I intend to.

[Ten Forward]
NU'DAQ: Good evening, Commander Data.
DATA: Captain.
NU'DAQ: Is there any word yet on the missing fragment?
DATA: The computer is processing the data. I will be notified as soon as there is any information.
NU'DAQ: Commander, your reputation for physical strength is known even in the Klingon Empire. You are familiar with the B'aht Qul challenge?
DATA: I am familiar with many Klingon rituals, including the B'aht Qul.
NU'DAQ: Wa' Cha' Wej
NU'DAQ: Maw' tok!
DATA: My upper spinal support is a polyalloy designed to withstand extreme stress. My skull is composed of cortenide and duranium.
NU'DAQ: I understand your intellectual prowess is equally impressive. If I were to learn of the results from the computer search before the others, the Klingon Empire would have a strategic advantage. A being of your abilities would go far in the Empire.
DATA: You are attempting to bribe me.
NU'DAQ: Not at all.
DATA: You suggested a plan that would work to your advantage, one that I would be capable of executing. You then implied a reward. Clearly you were
NU'DAQ: Commander, never mind.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: What the hell? Computer, perform a level three diagnostic on the primary defensive systems. La Forge to Captain Picard.
PICARD (voiceover): What is it, Geordi?
LAFORGE: You might want to come down here. I found something that I think you should see.

[Laboratory]
DATA: The computer has completed its analysis.
CRUSHER: The computer was able to extrapolate this geometric pattern based on the distribution of the fragments.
CRUSHER: Computer, highlight the section of the missing pattern. The missing DNA fragment should be in this system.
DATA: The star is in sector two one four five nine. The Rahm Izad system.

[Bridge]
WORF: Direct hit on our port nacelle. They are powering up for another volley.
RIKER: Let's make it look good. Ensign, release the inertial dampers.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
WORF: They are firing.
PICARD: Report, Number One.
RIKER: The power boost to the structural integrity field protected the nacelles. We used the inertial dampers to simulate complete shield failure.
NU'DAQ: It is fortunate that your Engineer discovered Gul Ocett's attempt to tamper with your defensive systems. Maht-H'a. Status.
KLINGON (voiceover): Minor damage to starboard nacelle. We will be operational in less than one hour.
NU'DAQ: What? You incompetent Top'a. You were supposed to be prepared.
WORF: The Cardassian vessels have set a course for Rahm Izad.
PICARD: Well, it won't take them long to realize that Rahm Izad is the wrong planet. Captain, you're welcome to join us.
NU'DAQ: I will go with you.
PICARD: Ensign, set in a course for the Vilmoran System. Warp nine.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: I am scanning all seven planets of the Vilmoran system. None appears to support life.
RIKER: How can that be? The Professor's data depends on
DATA: Correction. The second planet shows evidence of an ancient ocean, now dry.
LAFORGE: It once supported life.
DATA: Yes, and it still may, in a limited fashion not detectable by our long range sensors.
RIKER: Lay in a course, Ensign. Full impulse. Riker to Transporter room one.

[Transporter room]
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we've located a planet that may still support life. We'll know in a minute.
PICARD: Any sign of the Cardassians?
RIKER (voiceover): Not yet. We don't know how long it'll stay that way.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am reading a small pocket of vegetative life. A primitive lichen growing in a fossilized seabed.
RIKER: Transporter room one. I am programming the coordinates. Stand by.

[Planet surface]
CRUSHER: There. Over there.
RIKER (voiceover): Captain, we've got company. I'm ready to pull you out of there.
PICARD: Wait for my order, Number One.
NU'DAQ: You dishonorable top'a!
OCETT: Perhaps we could exchange insults some other time. I'm rather busy now.
ROMULAN: Well, it was quite a chase, wasn't it, my friends?
NU'DAQ: How?
ROMULAN: We intercepted several communiqués between the Yridians and Cardassia. My ship was watching under cloak when Professor Galen's shuttle was attacked.
WORF: And you have been shadowing us ever since.
ROMULAN: And now the reward. Step clear, please.
OCETT: I shall destroy the entire rockface and every trace of DNA with it. You will go back to Romulus empty-handed. Your superiors will be quite pleased.
ROMULAN: Perhaps we could come to a compromise? You give us the gene code.
PICARD: The seabed it may be only partially fossilized. It could still contain organic material.
CRUSHER: Which would still contain the DNA.
NU'DAQ: I will not be eliminated now.
ROMULAN: You can be eliminated by a disrupter. Now, what do you say to my offer.
OCETT: How can I be sure you won't kill me if I acquiesce.
ROMULAN: I've given you my word.
NU'DAQ: Etched in stone, no doubt. No deals. There will be no deals as long as I'm still alive.
ROMULAN: Do not press me, Klingon. I don't care whether you live or die.
WORF: If you fire, others will also. Many will die.
PICARD: The program has been activated. I think it's reconfiguring the tricorder.
NU'DAQ: We die together, Brother. Tash Koh Tah.
PICARD: It's modifying the emitter diode to project something.
HUMANOID: You're wondering who we are, why we have done this, how it has come that I stand before you, the image of a being from so long ago. Life evolved on my planet before all others in this part of the galaxy. We left our world, explored the stars, and found none like ourselves. Our civilization thrived for ages, but what is the life of one race, compared to the vast stretches of cosmic time? We knew that one day we would be gone, that nothing of us would survive. So, we left you. Our scientists seeded the primordial oceans of many worlds, where life was in its infancy. The seed codes directed your evolution toward a physical form resembling ours. This body you see before you, which is, of course, shaped as yours is shaped, for you are the end result. The seed codes also contained this message, which we scattered in fragments on many different worlds. It was our hope that you would have to come together in fellowship and companionship to hear this message. And if you can see and hear me, our hope has been fulfilled. You are a monument, not to our greatness, but to our existence. That was our wish, that you too would know life, and would keep alive our memory. There is something of us in each of you, and so, something of you in each other. Remember us.
NU'DAQ: That's all? If she were not dead, I would kill her.
OCETT: The very notion. That a Cardassian could have anything in common with a Klingon, it turns my stomach.
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise.
RIKER (voiceover): Standing by, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46735.2. Our frequent use of high warp over the last few days has overextended the propulsion systems. We are finishing minor repairs before returning to Federation territory.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: It's a shame Professor Galen didn't live to see the end result of his search.
PICARD: I can't think of anyone who would have appreciated it more.
CRUSHER: If it hadn't been for you, his dream to solve that puzzle would never have been realized. You left him a wonderful legacy.
PICARD: Yes, but it would've been a more fitting legacy if the message had not fallen on such deaf ears.
CRUSHER: You never know. Well, I have to get this day started.
PICARD: Both of us.
CRUSHER: See you this afternoon.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain Picard.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Incoming transmission from the Romulan command ship.
PICARD (voiceover): Put it through.
RIKER: Acknowledged.

[Picard's quarters]
ROMULAN (screen): Captain, my ships are leaving orbit for Romulan space. Until our next encounter.
PICARD: Until then.
ROMULAN (screen): It would seem that we are not completely dissimilar after all, in our hopes, or in our fears.
PICARD: Yes.
ROMULAN (screen): Well, then. Perhaps, one day.
PICARD: One day.

[Asylum cell]
RIKER: You're absolutely right, Doctor. Right now, I can't imagine ever hurting anybody.
DOCTOR (voiceover): How do you feel about that person you used to be?
RIKER: I feel terrible. But thanks to you, I'm doing much better now. And I'm confident that when I leave, I will be ready to take my place in society again.
DOCTOR (voiceover): When do you think that will be?
RIKER: Well, now. Right away.
DOCTOR (voiceover): Why do you say that?
RIKER: You said that when I was able to accept what I'd done and I understood the consequences of my actions, that I would be free to go.
DOCTOR (voiceover): Free to go? You mean you don't think you should stand trial for what you've did?
RIKER: No, I'm looking forward to proving my innocence.
DOCTOR (voiceover): I thought you said you accepted what you'd done.
RIKER: That's, that's not what I meant. I was sick when it happened. I wasn't responsible for what I did.
DOCTOR (voiceover): How do I know you're not just telling me what I want to hear? Perhaps we should continue this discussion next week.
RIKER: No. I want to talk about this now.
DOCTOR (voiceover): You're starting to sound angry again. Maybe you need another treatment.
RIKER: What I need is to get out of this cell. I've been locked in here for days. You've controlled my every move. You've told me what to eat, and what to think, and what to say, and when I show a glimmer of independent thought you strap me down, you inject me with drugs. You call it a treatment.
DOCTOR (voiceover): You're becoming agitated.
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated. I may be surrounded by insanity, but I'm not insane. And there isn't any. There isn't. There's nothing. 'm sorry. Could we go back to 'you're becoming agitated'?
CRUSHER: No. Why don't we take a break for tonight? I think we've made a lot of progress.
RIKER: I'm still not comfortable with that final speech.
CRUSHER: There's such a thing as over-rehearsing, Will. You're going to be fine.
RIKER: Maybe I'm just not right for this part.
DATA: Most humanoids have the potential to be irrational. Perhaps you should attempt to access that part of your psyche.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Data. Your character feels at odds with everyone, as if the world's against him.
RIKER: Like my first year at the Academy.
CRUSHER: Yes, that's what your character is going through. But I want you, Will Riker, to relax.
RIKER: I'll do my best.
CRUSHER: It'll be wonderful. You're going to knock 'em dead.
RIKER: Right.

[Corridor]
RIKER: You control my every move, tell me what to say, what to think. What to eat, what to say. What to think, what to eat. Then when I show a glimmer of independent thought, you strap me down, inject me with drugs, call it a treatment. I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am not insane.
RIKER: Excuse me.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Tilonus Four? Didn't their government just collapse?
PICARD: It's in a state of total anarchy. When the Prime Minister was assassinated, a Federation research team was on the planet. It's believed that they were forced into hiding. Your mission will be to locate and to evacuate them.
RIKER: Can't they go to local authorities?
PICARD: There are no local authorities. The government is splintered. It seems that there are various factions vying for power. They're desperate for weapons or technology of any kind. Apparently, some of the factions have resorted to torture to gather their information. Well, a Starfleet research team would be a prime target.
RIKER: Then I'll have to go down there alone, undercover.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf is ready to give you a detailed briefing on Tilonian culture.
RIKER: Well, I guess I'll have to back out of Beverly's play after all.
PICARD: Oh no, no, there'll be plenty of time for that. We don't arriving at Tilonus for another five days. And besides, if you back out, she'll come after me to play the part.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: This is the last known location of the research team. They had occupied a small building in the south-west quarter of the city. You will begin your search there.
RIKER: The south-west quarter covers over two hundred square kilometers. That's a lot of land for one man to cover. I guess I'd better pack an extra pair of boots.
WORF: This apparel will allow you to pass as a common merchant. This Tilonian pendant is equipped with a communicator circuit.
RIKER: It doesn't really match the outfit.
WORF: I suggest you pay closer attention, Commander. Your life will be at stake. Do you understand what I am saying?
RIKER: Of course I do.
WORF: Because you will be posing as a merchant, you will need to know how to use the nisroh for the traditional bartering ceremony.
WORF: You will be judged on your prowess with the blade.
WORF: I am sorry, Commander! I did not intend
RIKER: It's okay. I guess I really wasn't paying attention. I'd better go to Sickbay. We'll continue this later.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Boy, you will do anything to get out of doing this play, but you're going to have to do something better than this.
RIKER: The play's not till tomorrow night. I've still got twenty four hours.
CRUSHER: Don't get any ideas. I will see you on stage at eighteen hundred hours.
RIKER: Right. That still hurts.
CRUSHER: There was no damage to the nerves so you shouldn't be feeling any pain.
RIKER: Probably just a symptom of stage fright.
CREWMAN: It hurts!
LAFORGE: He was working on a conduit on deck thirty nine. A plasma torch blew up in his hands.
CREWMAN: It hurts! Please!
CRUSHER: Hypospray.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Get me twenty cc's of opporozine. Treat the surface burns with the anabolic stabilizer.
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
NURSE: Should we get a stasis unit?
CRUSHER: Have one standing by just in case. Get me an epidermal sample. Begin dermal regeneration. Have tissue regrowth standing by. I want him sedated.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: I've been on a lot of missions, seen a lot of people injured, but I've never been affected by anything like this. He was looking right at me.
TROI: And that was disturbing to you.
RIKER: It was as if he was blaming me for something. This wasn't the only incident. The last several days, I've felt like everybody's staring at me or talking about me. It's as if I was in Frame of Mind.
TROI: Frame of Mind?
RIKER: Beverly's play. Ever since I began rehearsing for the role, I've been uneasy and restless.
TROI: You're probably drawing on feelings that you're not used to expressing.
RIKER: Right. The play is full of disturbing images. People losing their minds, being tortured by doctors. I can't get it out of my mind.
TROI: Sometimes it's healthy to explore the darker sides of the psyche. Jung called it owning your own shadow. This could be a sign that you're a real actor. This is becoming more than just a role to you.
RIKER: Maybe you're right.
TROI: Don't be afraid of your darker side. Have fun with it.
RIKER: Who was that? You just missed him. Is there a new Lieutenant on board?
TROI: I'm not sure. Do you want me to check the personnel logs?
RIKER: No, I'll check them tomorrow. I'm going to bed early. The performance is tomorrow night. I want to be up for it.
TROI: I'm looking forward to it. Break a leg.
RIKER: I'll try not to take you literally.

[Stage - Asylum cell]
DATA: You're becoming agitated.
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am not insane. And nothing you or anyone else can say will change that. And I won't let you or anyone else tell me that I am. You may be able to destroy my mind, but you can't change the fact that I'm innocent. I didn't kill that man! And that's what's driving you crazy.
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do.
RIKER: No matter you can say will the fact that I'm innocent! I'm not crazy! I'm not crazy. I'm not crazy.
CROWD: Bravo, bravo! Well done. Bravo.

[Asylum cell]
RIKER: Where am I? How did you get me off the ship?
SYRUS: The ship again?
RIKER: What's going on?
SYRUS: I understand this must be disturbing for you, but try to relax. Tell me, where were you a moment ago?
RIKER: I was on the Enterprise in the middle of a play. But it was here. It was not real, it was on a stage.
SYRUS: I can assure you this is not a stage. Do you remember your name?
RIKER: I'm Commander. Commander. A second ago I knew who I was. I was on the ship. I was in a play. And now I'm having trouble remembering anything.
SYRUS: That's good. You're starting to come out of your delusional state.
RIKER: Delusional? It was not a delusion. I was there.
SYRUS: We discussed this. Do you remember, we contacted Starfleet and asked them about you?
RIKER: No.
SYRUS: We spoke with Admiral Budrow.
RIKER: Starbase twenty nine. He had never heard of me, and they had no officer that fit my description.
SYRUS: That's right. Now, I want you to focus on who I am. Do you remember me?
RIKER: I don't know.
SYRUS: I'm Doctor Syrus. Do you remember anything about where you are now?
RIKER: My head hurts. Somebody hit me.
SYRUS: You tried to escape. You struggled with one of the attendants and hit your head on a door. Do you remember that?
RIKER: Yes. I remember that now. But I thought it was a Klingon who had cut me with a knife.
SYRUS: That's called transposition. You're projecting elements from your delusions onto events that really happened. But that's good. There was a time when you couldn't break away from your starship fantasy at all.
RIKER: Now, if what you say is true, where am I?
SYRUS: You're in Ward forty seven of the Tilonus Institute for Mental Disorders.
RIKER: Why am I here?
SYRUS: We'll talk more later. You don't have to remember everything today. You're making excellent progress.
RIKER: Wait.
MAVEK (voiceover): Good afternoon. I've got some good news for you. Doctor Syrus suggested that you might enjoy a couple of hours in the common area today. Well?
RIKER: I guess so.
MAVEK: I hope you're hungry. They're serving spiny lobe-fish today.
RIKER: You won't need that.
MAVEK: That's what you said the last time.

[Asylum common area]
MAVEK: I'll be back with your lunch.
JAYA: I hear you're a Starfleet officer. I'm Commander Bloom from the Yorktown. There are at least a dozen of us here, maybe more. We were kidnapped, brought here against our will. Sanders was on the Yosemite. They did something to his mind. I think they're trying to get neurochemicals from our brains. Stafko was with me on the Yorktown. I don't know what they did to him. We're going to get out of here. I've made a communicator.
RIKER: You have?
JAYA: Yes. There are three starships in orbit. They're going to beam us out of here any day now. I'll tell them to get you out, too. Lieutenant Bloom to Yorktown. Come in, Yorktown. I've made contact with another officer.
MAVEK: Talking to your Starship again, Jaya?
JAYA: No. Don't let them tell you you're crazy.
MAVEK: You know you're not supposed to take utensils from the common area.
MAVEK: You're welcome to try.
RIKER: I'm not that far gone, am I?
MAVEK: Of course you are.
RIKER: Your name is Mavek.
MAVEK: That's right. Not bad for a crazy man.
RIKER: I am beginning to remember certain things. Why am I here?
MAVEK: I remember when they brought you in. You were struggling, screaming. We could barely hold you down. In fact, just getting the blood off your hands took over an hour.
RIKER: Blood?
MAVEK: On your hands, clothes. You didn't just kill that man, you mutilated him.
RIKER: What are you talking about? I didn't kill anybody.
MAVEK: I'm afraid you did. You stabbed him. They found you near the body, the knife in your hand.
RIKER: No. It's not true.
MAVEK: Yes it is. And if you get out of here, you're going to stand trial.
RIKER: You're lying!
MAVEK: I imagine the punishment will be quite severe, considering you stabbed him nine times.
RIKER: No!

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: I was there, in Ward forty seven, just like in the play. Everyone thought that I was insane, that I'd actually killed someone. But it was all real.
CRUSHER: Deanna mentioned that you went to bed early because you were feeling a little anxious about the play, but I had no idea. You said that in your dream, we performed the play. How'd it go?
RIKER: It was a smash. We got a standing ovation.
CRUSHER: Let's hope it goes that well tonight. Well, we have got one hour before curtain. How are you feeling?
RIKER: I feel like an actor.
CRUSHER: Well, you're certainly beginning to look the part.

[Theater - Asylum cell]
DATA: Perhaps we should continue this discussion next week
RIKER: No. I want to talk about this now.
DATA: You're starting to sound angry again. Maybe you need another treatment.
RIKER: What I need is to get out of this cell. I'm locked up in here for days. You've controlled my every move. You've told me what to eat, what to think, what to say.
CRUSHER: And when I show a glimmer of independent thought
RIKER: And when I show a glimmer of independent thought, you strap me down, inject me with drugs and call it a treatment.
DATA: You're becoming agitated.
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am not insane. And there is nothing you
RIKER: What's happening?
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do.
RIKER: Nothing you can do will change the fact that I'm innocent. I'm not crazy. I'm not
RIKER: You're the key to all this, aren't you? Who are you? Who are you?
LIEUTENANT: Lieutenant Suna, sir.
CRUSHER: Will, are you all right?
RIKER: I. Yes. I don't know
CRUSHER: Why don't we get him to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with you neurologically, and I can't find anything that could cause the hallucinations. But your heart rate is way up and your blood pressure's way above normal. And you're physically exhausted.
RIKER: This is not a case of simple fatigue.
CRUSHER: Will, you know that when you're under conditions of extreme stress the mind can manufacture all kinds of things.
RIKER: Drugs. They injected me with me drugs. See if the drug's in my system.
CRUSHER: Nothing.
RIKER: In that dream they gave me drugs. Didn't anybody at the theater see anything strange happen during the performance?
CRUSHER: No, nobody. Get some rest, Will. The play is over. Don't give it another thought.
RIKER: Right.

[Corridor]
RIKER: How's Lieutenant Suna?
TROI: A little shaken but all right.
RIKER: I feel like such an idiot.
TROI: It's nothing to be embarrassed about. We're your friends. We all know the stress you've been under. I'm sure everyone understands perfectly.
DATA: Commander, I must compliment you on your performance this evening.
RIKER: Oh?
DATA: Your unexpected choice to improvise was an effective method of drawing the audience into the plight of your character. You gave a truly realistic interpretation of multi-infarct dementia.
RIKER: Thank you.
TROI: Well, maybe not everyone understands.
RIKER: I think I'd better get a little rest. Clear my mind a little.
TROI: I want you to try a few relaxation techniques as well. Remember the ones I showed you a few months ago?
RIKER: They never seem to work for me.
SYRUS (voiceover): Maybe you need another treatment.
TROI: What's wrong?
RIKER: Nothing. Nothing.
TROI: Will, I want you to get some sleep. I'll see you tomorrow.
RIKER: Okay.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: It's not real. It's not real.

[Corridor]
JAYA: Don't let them tell you you're crazy.

[Asylum cell]
RIKER: No! Let me out of here! Let me out of here! Help me! Help me.

[Asylum common area]
RIKER: I need help. I don't want to be at the mercy of these hallucinations any more.
SYRUS: So you've accepted you're not from a starship? That it's all a delusion?
RIKER: All I know is when I go back to the ship, reality breaks apart. Nothing makes sense. And then when it's over, it fades away like a dream. But when I'm in the hospital, everything here seems real and I remember everything that happens here.
SYRUS: And what about how you got here?
RIKER: Maybe I did kill someone. I don't know. But I want to know how.
SYRUS: I'm glad to hear you say that, because I just had a long talk with the hospital Administrator. He told me there are certain legal questions that have to be resolved relatively soon.
RIKER: Meaning?
SYRUS: Meaning we can't keep you here much longer. We're the only mental health facility on Tilonus Four. We have many people who need our help. I don't want to put any undue stress on you but we have to settle this case one way or another within the next few days.
RIKER: What does that mean?
SYRUS: You're facing a choice. We can try to help you remember what happened using Reflection therapy. If it's successful, you would be fit to stand trial.
RIKER: Reflection therapy?
SYRUS: It's a way for you to interact with the various facets of your personality. We scan the regions of your brain that control emotions and memory, and then project them holographically.
RIKER: And what is the second option?
SYRUS: A complete synaptic reconstruction of your cerebral cortex.
RIKER: Surgery.
SYRUS: We would neutralize the synaptic pathways responsible for your mental instability.
RIKER: It doesn't sound like you care for that option.
SYRUS: I don't. The procedure is irreversible. You'd be left with a completely altered personality. The person you are now would cease to exist.
RIKER: Option one is beginning to sound better.
SYRUS: I agree.
RIKER: Reflection therapy, then. When do we begin?
SYRUS: This afternoon, if you're ready. I want you to understand that this isn't going to be easy. You'll be interacting with aspects of your psyche you've never dealt with before, and you may be disturbed by what they have to say.

[Asylum cell]
SYRUS: Close your eyes. Try to relax. Clear your mind.
SYRUS: Now, think back to before you came to the hospital. But don't try to remember specific incidents. Concentrate on how you felt.
RIKER: I was afraid.
TROI: Terrified.
RIKER: She was on the ship with me.
SYRUS: That's because she represents an aspect of your personality, and there are many parts of you that still believe you're on that starship.
RIKER: Why her?
SYRUS: I asked you to get in touch with your feelings, and this is the part of you that responded. Talk to her about how you felt before you came here.
RIKER: You said I was terrified. Of what?
TROI: I was in a dark place. Cold. Frightened. Someone was there.
RIKER: Who?
TROI: I felt threatened by them. Trapped
SYRUS: You're doing very well. Now let's try to find out how you responded to these feelings. Try to focus on your actions. You felt trapped. What did you do?
WORF: I was angry. They were attacking me. I fought back.
TROI: I felt pain.
WORF: I was injured.
TROI: I began to panic.
WORF: There was a struggle and I
RIKER: You what? What happened?
SYRUS: Try to associate your actions and emotions with logical thoughts. What do you think caused you to act and feel this way?
PICARD: It was cold and dark because I was outdoors at night. I was in a narrow place. I was walking through an alley.
TROI: I felt threatened.
WORF: I was being watched.
PICARD: Someone must have followed me into the alley. That's why I started to walk faster. Someone grabbed me from behind.
TROI: I panicked.
WORF: I tried to fight them off.
RIKER: How many of them were there?
PICARD: Three. Humanoid. I only saw the face of one of them.
RIKER: What did he look like?
RIKER: I saw him on the ship too. I also saw him here in the hospital, but I don't know who he is.
SYRUS: That's Mister Suna, the hospital Administrator. You met him when you first arrived here.
RIKER: What part of me does he represent?
SYRUS: I don't know.
TROI: Don't believe this, Will. None of it's real. You're still with us on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Doctor?
PICARD: We're your colleagues. You can trust us. Everything will be all right
SYRUS: Do you have anything to say to them?
RIKER: You're all delusions.
WORF: Do not listen to him, Commander. He is trying to trick you. You are in danger here. Let us help you.
TROI: Listen to me, Will. In all the years we've known each other, have I ever lied to you?
RIKER: No, please. Leave me alone!
PICARD: Will, please.
RIKER: No!
SYRUS: You've taken a big step today. You've finally turned your back on those delusions and all that they represent to you. We'll continue later.

[Asylum common area]
RIKER: It's not real.
CRUSHER: Commander, do you know who I am? Do you know where you are? If you can't answer, just listen. You were on an undercover mission to Tilonus Four. Something happened. We were told that you killed somebody, but we do not believe it's true. We're being blocked at every turn. The hospital Administrator denies you're here at all. We're beginning to think that there's some kind of a conspiracy going on. I had to come in here posing as a health official. Sit tight, Commander. We're going to get you out of here.
RIKER: Not real.

[Asylum cell]
DATA: Commander.
RIKER: Get away from me!
WORF: Commander, you must come with us. You are in danger here.
RIKER: No!
WORF: Silence.

[Asylum Corridor]
DATA: Commander, are you all right?
RIKER: Help me! Help me!
MAVEK: Who are you? Take them to Security Ward.

[Asylum common area]
WORF: Worf to Enterprise. The pattern enhancer has been activated. Three to beam up.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There's damage to the parietal lobe. It's as if someone's trying to access his long-term memory. He's in a severe state of neural shock. It's going to take him a while to recover.
PICARD: Number One, do you remember what happened? You were abducted during the mission to Tilonus Four. You were put into a psychiatric hospital.
RIKER: It's still bleeding.
CRUSHER: It's minor. Don't worry about it.
WORF: We have been checking on the hospital Administrator.
RIKER: Mister Suna.
PICARD: It appears that he's involved with one of the rival factions. We believe that he is responsible for what happened to you.
RIKER: It still hurts. It's bleeding again. Why? You just healed it.
CRUSHER: Will, try to calm down.
RIKER: This isn't real.
PICARD: What are you doing, Will?
RIKER: If I'm right, you're not really here. This isn't a real phaser. It's all a fantasy, and I'm going to end it, no matter what it takes.
PICARD: But what if it isn't a fantasy? Are you willing to take that chance?
RIKER: You're right, I won't. But I'm going to find out what's real and what's not.
CRUSHER: Will, don't do it!

[Asylum cell]
SUNA: How's he progressing?
SYRUS: He's not responding to the Reflection therapy. His delusions are growing more elaborate.
MAVEK: He broke out of his cell last night. We found him running down a corridor claiming people had come to take him back to his starship.
SUNA: Then I see no other choice. We'll have to perform the synaptic reconstruction.
RIKER: I still have a phaser. Why do I still have a phaser?
SUNA: It's not a phaser, it's a knife. You stole it from one of the food trays. Give it to me. We don't want you to hurt yourself.
RIKER: I don't believe you.
RIKER: If this is a knife, what happened to Mavek?
SUNA: It's very complicated. I'll answer all of your questions, but first I want you to put that down.
RIKER: No. If this is a real phaser, then I was on the Enterprise. But I fired it on myself, so I should be dead. None of this is real. I'm setting this to level sixteen, wide field. That should destroy half of this building. Unless, of course, this isn't a real phaser.

[Theater Asylum cell]
RIKER: It's all about you, isn't it? You're the only constant, the only person in both places.
SUNA: There's a lot more going on here than you realize.
RIKER: This isn't real, either. What's happening to me?
SUNA: Listen to me. We can still save you, but you must stop fighting us.
RIKER: You're lying.
SUNA: Let me help you.
RIKER: No!
SUNA: I'm warning you.
RIKER: No!

[Alien lab]
SUNA: He's conscious! I haven't finished the neurodrain. Get him sedated.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise!
WORF (voiceover): Enterprise here. Are you all right, sir?
RIKER: Emergency transport. Get me out of here.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46778.1. Commander Riker has returned safely from his mission to Tilonus Four. Doctor Crusher has repaired the damage to his long-term memory.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Evidently, you were abducted two days after beaming to the surface.
RIKER: I remember now. I was in an alley. They attacked me from behind. I tried to fight them off with the nisroh Worf gave me. I managed to get off one of them off me but I think they injected me with some sort of drug.
PICARD: We believe that they were trying to extract strategic information from your memory using a neurosomatic technique.
RIKER: I was in a hospital, then I was back on the Enterprise. I was back at the hospital. I kept shifting from place to place. I couldn't tell what was real.
TROI: Your mind must have created a defense mechanism that helped you resist the neurosomatic process. Your unconscious fastened on to elements of your real life in an attempt to keep you grounded, to keep you sane.
RIKER: The preparation for the mission, the play, those were recent experiences, fresh in my mind.
PICARD: You should get some rest. We can talk some more tomorrow.
RIKER: There is one thing I'd like to do first.

[Theater]
CRUSHER: Are you sure you want to do this by yourself? The stage crew and I were going to do it tomorrow morning.
RIKER: I'm positive. After everything that I've experienced, I don't think I could sleep knowing it was still up.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: All right, come in.
CRUSHER: Guinan? What's wrong?
GUINAN: I need a doctor. Geordi beat me in straight sets today. I think I've developed tennis elbow.
CRUSHER: Well, you'd better go to Sickbay. I think Doctor Selar's on duty.
GUINAN: I don't want to see Doctor Selar. I always see you. I'm very particular about my doctors.
CRUSHER: Well, you'd better get a new one, because I'm not a doctor on this ship anymore.
CRUSHER: Three days on a shuttle to Starbase twenty three, transport back to Earth. I can hear Admiral Brooks now, telling me how I've disgraced Starfleet Medical. Then a leisurely day and a half before the formal inquiry begins and my career ends.
GUINAN: Beverly? My elbow.
CRUSHER: Your elbow. Let me see it. Does this hurt?
GUINAN: Ow! Yes, right there.
CRUSHER: That's tennis elbow, all right. Here, hold your arm like this.
GUINAN: You know, I've never been to a formal inquiry.
CRUSHER: Well I'll see if I can arrange one for you. All you have to do is disobey orders, violate medical ethics, and cause an interstellar incident.
GUINAN: Well I guess that would do it.
CRUSHER: Make a fist.
GUINAN: Do I have to hit you with my fist before you tell me what happened?
CRUSHER: It all started when those scientists came on board. No. It started when I got curious.
GUINAN: Well, there's nothing wrong with that.
CRUSHER: That's why I went to the Altine Conference. I'd heard about a new subspace technology developed by a Ferengi, a Doctor Reyga.
GUINAN: A Ferengi scientist. Hmm.
CRUSHER: His invention was based on metaphasic fields, but his methodology was completely unorthodox.
GUINAN: I like unorthodox.
CRUSHER: Too bad you weren't there. Nobody else would listen to him. They all but jeered him off the stage. But I had read his paper and his work was extraordinary.
GUINAN: So you gathered all these scientists to come hear this Ferengi.
CRUSHER: Yes. I hoped I could be a facilitator. I thought if I invited scientists from various cultures to board the Enterprise, I could sit them and down help them understand the value of his ideas.
GUINAN: Like a scientific diplomat.
CRUSHER: Exactly. So, after persuading the Captain, I had to round up as many scientists as I could from the field of subspace technology.

[Science lab]
CRUSHER (voiceover): But of all the scientists I invited, only four were interested in hearing about Doctor Reyga's invention. And I wasn't altogether sure they were going to be compatible. Kurak was a warp field specialist on the Klingon Homeworld. I don't think Klingons regard scientists very highly. She always seemed a little defensive. Doctor T'Pan is practically a legend in the field of subspace morphology. She's been the director of the Vulcan Science Academy for fifteen years. Her husband, Doctor Christopher, came with her. I didn't know much about him, but he was some kind of subspace theoretician. Jo'Bril was a Takaran, the first one I'd ever met. I had no idea what to expect from him. And then there was Doctor Reyga, the Ferengi scientist.
REYGA: You've all seen my experimental data. The metaphasic shield has been proven.
T'PAN: Forgive my skepticism, Doctor, but your claims are somewhat extravagant. Protect a shuttle within a star's corona? Not even your own government believes it can be done.
CRUSHER: That's why I've invited you all here. You have the vision to see the potential of Doctor Reyga's metaphasic shield.
REYGA: I need help to develop the shield. I am willing to grant exclusive rights to whoever provides the necessary resources.
CRUSHER: I think you all realize what this shielding process could mean. The possibilities of exploration and research are endless.
KURAK: But only if it works. I'm not convinced that this metaphasic shield can withstand either the temperature or the radiation it would be exposed to.
REYGA: But it has! Not only in countless simulations, but in a field test that I conducted myself.
KURAK: For which, of course, we have only your word.
REYGA: Are you accusing me of falsifying my data?
KURAK: You would not be the first scientist to manipulate experimental data to his own advantage.
CRUSHER: Doctor Reyga has offered to demonstrate his invention. He's outfitted one of our shuttles with his metaphasic shield.
REYGA: I will take it into the corona of the star Vaytan.
CHRISTOPHER: That star has a superdense corona. The shuttle would be subjected to particularly intense radiation. Perhaps it would be wise to choose a star of lesser magnitude.
T'PAN: I agree. My own research into solar energy transfer suggests that Vaytan's corona is extremely unstable.
REYGA: What better way to test my invention? I'm not concerned. The shield will hold.
KURAK: I for one would feel more comfortable if someone else flew the shuttle. Someone more objective.
JO'BRIL: I will volunteer for that task. I've spent years studying solar plasma reactions. The thought of being able to penetrate a star's corona. It is a remarkable opportunity. I've studied your data, Doctor Reyga. I think you're on solid scientific ground.
KURAK: I do not share your optimism, Doctor Jo'Bril, but if you wish to pilot the craft, I would be more confident in your assessment of the shield than Doctor Reyga's.
CHRISTOPHER: I agree. At this point, we need an impartial evaluation.
CRUSHER: We'll need to be sure that you're familiar with the shuttle's controls and Doctor Reyga's modifications.
JO'BRIL: I'm an accomplished pilot. It will be no problem.
CRUSHER: Well, what do you think?
REYGA: I am gratified, Doctor Jo'Bril. And there will be no difficulty in operating the metaphasic controls. The system will activate automatically as you approach the star.
CRUSHER: Well, then. We'll proceed with the demonstration at fifteen hundred hours. We'll meet on the Bridge.
CRUSHER (voiceover): It wasn't exactly an enthusiastic response to Doctor Reyga's technology, but given the circumstances and the scientist's quarrelsome personalities, I was quite pleased.
CRUSHER: I thought that went well, didn't you?
REYGA: Thanks to you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I didn't do anything.

[Corridor]
REYGA: This is an opportunity I would never have had without you, and I promise you, I'll never forget it.
CRUSHER: Some of the scientists still seem a little doubtful, but after the demonstration I'm sure they'll come around.
REYGA: Well, if there's anything I'm used to, it's skepticism. After all, a Ferengi scientist is almost a contradiction in terms. No, don't deny it. I know how the Ferengi are regarded.
CRUSHER: I still expect the scientific community to be a little more open than they seem to be.
REYGA: The metaphasic shield is a breakthrough in technology. Many scientists have tried to develop it. It's only natural that there would be some resistance.
CRUSHER: You mean jealousy. I know. I wondered if that might account for Doctor T'Pan's attitude. She's been working on subspace shielding technology for years and you've beaten her to the punch.
REYGA: I'm really not interested in competition. All I want is to be acknowledged. Respected as a scientist. This invention will finally do that.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I figured the hard part was over. I'd stepped out on a limb and it hadn't broken.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Not bad for my first venture into scientific diplomacy.
DATA: Captain, the shuttle has been launched.
PICARD: On screen. Open a channel.
JO'BRIL (screen): I am one million kilometers from the star's corona. Proceeding at three quarters impulse. I should reach it in approximately three minutes.
REYGA: The metaphasic shielding has begun to form.
DATA: External temperature is zero point nine million Kelvins and rising. Radiation levels are nearing ten thousand rads.
REYGA: That should have no effect on the shuttle cabin.
CRUSHER: That's right. Temperature in the cabin is twenty one degrees Celsius and the radiation levels are normal.
JO'BRIL (screen): Wait. I'm reading elevated neutrino levels in the cabin.
REYGA: Those are from the subspace field that's encapsulating the shuttle. The levels are well within acceptable parameters.
DATA: Outside temperature is rising rapidly. One point seven million Kelvins.
CRUSHER: Temperature is still twenty one degrees and the shield is holding.
JO'BRIL (screen): Three hundred and fifty thousand kilometers and closing. This is incredible. I am actually flying into a star.
PICARD: Congratulations, Doctor. This is an amazing achievement.
DATA: Radiation levels outside the shuttle are nearing fourteen thousand rads.
CRUSHER: Temperature inside the cabin is still normal.
JO'BRIL (screen): I am now fully engulfed in the corona. It's astonishing.
REYGA: You see, Doctors? Metaphasic shielding is a reality. Doctor Jo'Bril, can you give us an estimate of the plasma turbulence?
REYGA: Doctor Jo'Bril?
CRUSHER: Something's wrong.
RIKER: What's going on, Mister Data?
DATA: Sensors indicate an increased level of baryon particles in the cabin.
REYGA: No! That's not possible.
PICARD: Doctor Jo'Bril, can you hear me? Please respond.
DATA: Baryon levels are continuing to rise, sir.
REYGA: I don't understand. This shouldn't be happening.
PICARD: Mister Worf, can you beam him out of there?
WORF: The solar radiation is interfering. He must be at least five hundred thousand kilometers from the star before we can get a transporter lock.
CRUSHER: We're losing him.
PICARD: Doctor Jo'Bril, listen to me. It is imperative that you turn the shuttle. Take it out of the corona. Do you understand me? Pilot the shuttle away from the star.
DATA: The shuttle is emerging from the corona, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, get a lock on him as soon as you can.
CRUSHER: Beam him directly to Sickbay.
CRUSHER (voiceover): At that point, the doubts of the others seemed justified. I had no idea what had gone wrong or how seriously Doctor Jo'Bril had been injured, but I knew this incident could destroy Reyga's chance to be accepted by the scientific community.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Twenty cc's inaprovaline. It's not working. Cortical stimulators. Now. Again.
JO'BRIL: I saw the sun.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So that was my first experience as a scientific diplomat. A complete failure. I don't understand.
GUINAN: No?
CRUSHER: I mean, I've lost patients before.
GUINAN: But this was different.
CRUSHER: Mmm.
GUINAN: You know, when you're a doctor and you have patients, you're in control. But when you send someone out on a mission, all you can do is sit and watch.
CRUSHER: That's what I felt. Helpless.
GUINAN: Anybody would. Don't be too hard on yourself.
CRUSHER: You know, what you say reminds me of something Jean-Luc said to me when I was doing the autopsy on Jo'Bril.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER (voiceover): It was probably the most puzzling autopsy I've ever performed, and the most frustrating, because Jo'Bril's anatomy was unlike any I'd encountered, and I've run into some unusual specimens.
PICARD: How's it going?
CRUSHER: I've never run into a humanoid species like this before. His internal physiology's baffling. He doesn't seem to have any discrete organs, at least not in the traditional sense. Practically every system is equally distributed throughout the body. That kind of physiology should make him incredibly resistant to injury, so whatever killed him must have occurred at the cellular level.
PICARD: Do you have any idea what it was?
CRUSHER: No. Something caused a massive system-wide failure, but I don't know what.
PICARD: Were the solar radiation levels high enough to kill him?
CRUSHER: His exposure to the star's radiation was minimal. It's all very strange. There's no apparent cause of death.
OGAWA: Doctor, here's the result of the tissue scan you asked for.
CRUSHER: That's odd. The rate of cellular decay is extremely low.
PICARD: Beverly, the answers will come.
CRUSHER: Maybe even minimal exposure to the radiation altered the cellular physiology.
PICARD: You know, you've been at this for hours. You might think more clearly if you got a good night's sleep.
CRUSHER: I can't sleep. I want to find out what killed him. I owe that to Doctor Reyga.
PICARD: You're doing it for Doctor Reyga, or yourself?
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
PICARD: You're the loneliest person in the world right now. No one can say anything, no one can do anything that will help. And you think that it will never go away. And you're right, it won't. But you can get used to it. I know it doesn't feel like that now, but you can.
CRUSHER (voiceover): At the time, I was too preoccupied with my problems to understand what he was saying. I wasn't thinking about the rest of my life. I was trying to make sense of what had happened.

[Shuttlecraft]
CRUSHER (voiceover): And I wasn't alone. Jo'Bril's death had raised a lot of questions. Geordi and Data were determined to find out what had gone wrong, and they were busy going over every millimeter of the shuttle, with Doctor Reyga's help.
REYGA: Run another diagnostic on the EPS flow regulator.
DATA: The flow regulator is functioning properly.
REYGA: What about the field emitter coil? Has it maintained polarity?
DATA: Yes, Doctor.
REYGA: The radial force compensator?
DATA: I am unable to locate any malfunction. All systems are operating according to your design specifications.

[Shuttlebay]
CRUSHER: Did you find anything wrong?
REYGA: No. I don't understand it. There must be something we've overlooked.
LAFORGE: I found micro-crystalline damage to the hull, which confirms that your shield was breached by a burst of baryonic radiation.
CRUSHER: Were the levels high enough to cause damage to organic tissue?
LAFORGE: I don't know.
DATA: Perhaps there was an unexpected interaction between the solar radiation and the metaphasic shield.
REYGA: No, that's not possible. I anticipated every contingency.
LAFORGE: Then maybe Jo'Bril ran into something in the corona which you didn't anticipate, and your shield just wasn't able to protect him from it.
REYGA: My shield was not at fault.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Reyga seemed angry, but I knew it was because he was so disappointed. Everything he'd worked for, hoped for, was slipping away.

[Science lab]
CRUSHER (voiceover): And that made what I had to do next even harder.
CRUSHER: I'm sure you all understand that in light of what happened, I think it would be inappropriate to continue further testing. Perhaps if Doctor Reyga has perfected his metaphasic technology, we can try again.
REYGA: Doctor Crusher, please, if I could have a little more time to investigate I know I could find what went wrong.
CHRISTOPHER: But that won't bring back Jo'Bril, will it?
T'PAN: I do not believe the shield will ever work. Its very concept is flawed.
REYGA: Just one more test.
KURAK: Whom do you propose we sacrifice next?
REYGA: I will pilot the shuttle myself.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. As Chief Medical Officer I'm responsible for the health and safety of all the people aboard. I will not authorize any further tests.
REYGA: Very well. But I will prove myself.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I couldn't help but admire his tenacity. He just wasn't going to accept defeat. And I hoped he would prove himself. But that was the last time I saw him alive.
CRUSHER (voiceover): We'd gone to Science Lab four when the ship's sensors registered a sizable plasma surge there.
CRUSHER: Look at this. A plasma infuser. It's completely discharged. The blast must have killed him instantly.
WORF: Perhaps he could not live with the failure of his invention and took his own life.
CRUSHER: Or perhaps someone just wanted it to look that way. Isn't it odd that he could hold on so tightly to the infuser when it was discharged. The normal reflex would have been to drop it.
WORF: The plasma shock could have affected his nervous system. He may have reacted by gripping tighter.
CRUSHER: I'll know for certain when I do the autopsy.
WORF: Is your examination complete, Doctor?
CRUSHER: For now. Please have his body taken to the morgue.
WORF: Very well.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I remembered his passion and commitment, and his determination to prove himself, and I was sure that this man had not taken his own life. If anyone could understand that, I knew it would be Captain Picard.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I was with him right before he died. He was not suicidal.
PICARD: But by your own admission, Reyga was a difficult man to understand. Isn't it possible that he was simply masking his feelings?
CRUSHER: I don't think so. He was disappointed at the failure of his device and certainly he was upset at Jo'Bril's death, but I never got the sense that he was ready to end his own life. And if that's true, then someone else killed him.
PICARD: Do you have any evidence of that?
CRUSHER: Not yet. But when I finished the autopsy, I hope I'll have it.
PICARD: Beverly. I'm afraid there will be no autopsy. The family has already been contacted. They insist that the body must not be touched until they perform the Ferengi death ritual.
CRUSHER: But there's a question as to the circumstances of his death.
PICARD: To the family that's irrelevant.
CRUSHER: Let me speak with them.
PICARD: Please believe me, they're adamant. We are scheduled to rendezvous with a Ferengi ship in seventeen hours. They will pick up Reyga's body then. I'm sorry, there will be no autopsy.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I cannot just drop this. Don't you see? There may have been a murder.
PICARD: Then you will have to find evidence some way other than an autopsy.

[Morgue]
OGAWA: I don't understand, Doctor. Isn't it pretty clear that Reyga died from a plasma discharge?
CRUSHER: It's won't be clear until after an autopsy. As far as I know, he could have been poisoned and someone put the plasma infuser in his hand after he died.
OGAWA: You think he was murdered?
CRUSHER: I'm not discounting that possibility. The point is, without a complete autopsy, there's no way of knowing for certain.
OGAWA: Why won't the Ferengi allow it?
CRUSHER: It has to do with their death rituals. The body can't be violated before it's buried. Apparently the family is more concerned about ritual than finding out the truth about how he died. I just can't get the information I need from a tricorder scan. Suspects. If Reyga didn't kill himself. someone else did. So who are the possible suspects?
OGAWA: Whoever had something to gain from his death.
CRUSHER: And the only ones to fit that category are the other scientists.

[Christopher's quarters]
CHRISTOPHER: I'm afraid I don't understand, Doctor. Do you have evidence that Reyga was murdered?
CRUSHER: No, but I can't believe he took his own life and I would like to explore any possibilities a bit further.
T'PAN: What reason would anyone have to kill him?
CRUSHER: I was wondering if you might have any thoughts along that line.
T'PAN: I see. You are suggesting that I had such a motive.
CRUSHER: If Reyga's technology had been successful, you might have been displaced as the preeminent scientist in subspace technology.
T'PAN: But since it wasn't successful, it is illogical to conclude that I had such a motive, isn't it.
CHRISTOPHER: I must say I resent this, Doctor. We've all been shocked by recent events. I don't see that there's anything to gain by dragging us through these insinuations.
CRUSHER: I'm just trying to uncover the truth, and I need your help to do it. Have you seen or heard anything that might suggest that someone else had a motive?
CHRISTOPHER: We are trying to forget the unpleasantness of these last several days, not have them stirred up again. I find it disturbing that you would try to foster suspicions among us.
CRUSHER: Forgive me, I don't mean to upset you, but have you noticed anything unusual?
CHRISTOPHER: I find your question distasteful.
CRUSHER: Is there something you're not telling me?
CHRISTOPHER: I'm sure it's nothing. I was in the storage room of the science laboratory yesterday. Kurak was working in the lab. Reyga came in and they got into, well, an argument.
CRUSHER: About what?
CHRISTOPHER: I don't know. I couldn't hear clearly until they started to shout at one other. Then I heard Kurak say that Reyga had insulted her honor, and no Klingon would stand for that. I do not believe she killed him. These were words spoken in the heat of anger. Kurak is volatile, passionate, but not a killer. And, Doctor, neither are we.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I knew he might be right about Kurak. Klingons make threats as a matter of course. On the other hand, sometimes they follow through.

[Science lab]
CRUSHER: That looks like one of Doctor Reyga's shield configurations.
KURAK: Yes. Personal research.
CRUSHER: Even though this technology failed?
KURAK: No one has denied there is potential in the idea.
CRUSHER: Which you're now free to develop.
KURAK: Are you accusing me of something?
CRUSHER: No, but I want to know why you threatened Doctor Reyga.
KURAK: I warned Doctor Reyga that if he persisted with his slander, he would pay the price.
CRUSHER: What was his accusation?
KURAK: I will not repeat his lies.
CRUSHER: Were they lies?
KURAK: Be careful, Doctor. Insulting the honor of a Klingon can be extremely dangerous.
CRUSHER: Did Reyga make that mistake?
KURAK: I have heard enough accusations! Now I will have your silence.
CRUSHER: Well, you're going to have to throw me a lot harder than that if you want to get it. Now, what did he accuse you of?
KURAK: Sabotage.
CRUSHER: Sabotage of the metaphasic shield? Was that why it failed?
KURAK: How would I know?
CRUSHER: Did you sabotage the project?
KURAK: No. I did not. Goodbye, Doctor.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Kurak refused to say anything more. I wasn't sure if her silence was motivated by guilt or just Klingon pride.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER (voiceover): I was beginning to find out that investigating a murder was a little more perilous than I'd thought. And for everything I'd been though, I didn't have any more insight than I did before I started.

[Morgue]
CRUSHER (voiceover): Which brought me back to Reyga's body. Because the more I thought about it, the more it seemed that the answers had to be there. DNA traces, tissue anomalies, a wealth of forensic clues that could shed some light on the mystery. So I made the decision.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come. Beverly.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I want to tell you something that you need to know, but you're not going to like it. I did an autopsy on Doctor Reyga.
PICARD: What did you find?
CRUSHER: Nothing. I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have done it.
PICARD: You most certainly should not. I made it clear to you that the family would not allow it. Not only have you disobeyed my orders, but you've interfered in the burial rituals of another culture. You've put both of us in a very difficult position. The family will have to be notified. I don't doubt that they will react strongly. If the Ferengi government becomes involved, as I'm certain they will, this could have very significant repercussions. I'm not sure how much I can protect you.
CRUSHER: You don't have to, Jean-Luc. I knew what I was doing and I'm prepared to accept the consequences.
CRUSHER (voiceover): I could tell that he was terribly disappointed in me, and that was almost the hardest part of all.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So that's the story. That's how I ended my career.
GUINAN: Backhand volley.
CRUSHER: What?
GUINAN: That's how I did it. Geordi kept hitting to my backhand at the net.
CRUSHER: Guinan, two people died on this ship. Two lives that ended horribly and you're worried about your tennis game?
GUINAN: Are you upset?
CRUSHER: I don't know. You tell me. You're supposed to be wise.
GUINAN: Well, if you are upset, why are you moping around here? Why don't you do something about it?
CRUSHER: I've done everything I could think of. It got me fired.
GUINAN: Do you think Doctor Reyga killed himself?
CRUSHER: No.
GUINAN: Do you think there's a murderer on board?
CRUSHER: Yes.
GUINAN: Then why are you still sitting here?
CRUSHER: Don't you get it? If I start digging around again.
GUINAN: You could be relieved of duty. Chief Medical Officer's log, personal, stardate 46830.1. I'll be leaving the ship tomorrow to attend the board of inquiry. That means I have less than twenty four hours to get to the bottom of this mystery.

[Shuttlecraft]
CRUSHER: What are you doing, Data?
DATA: I am running additional diagnostics to make certain there was no permanent radiation damage to the shuttlecraft hull.
CRUSHER: You've studied Doctor Reyga's shield system. Do you think it could have been sabotaged?
DATA: There was no evidence to suggest sabotage.
CRUSHER: Just consider the possibility.
DATA: The system interlocks prevent access to the circuitry unless the shield emitter is active. Any attempt to sabotage the device would have to be made while the shield was in operation.
CRUSHER: The only time the shield was active was during Jo'Bril's test flight.
DATA: That is correct. It seems unlikely that Jo'Bril would perform sabotage which would result in his own death.
CRUSHER: I agree. Would it be possible to sabotage the shuttle by remote, during the flight?
DATA: A phased ionic pulse beamed directly into the metaphasic projection matrix would result in a temporary system malfunction.
CRUSHER: Where on the Enterprise could you generate a phased ionic pulse?
DATA: Such a pulse could be initiated from the lateral sensor arrays, science labs one, four, and sixteen, or any of the bridge science stations.
CRUSHER: Let's assume for the moment that someone did send out a phased ionic pulse. What would have happened inside the shuttle?
DATA: A tetryon field would be formed briefly in the cabin, temporarily disrupting the metaphasic shield.
CRUSHER: A tetryon field? If Jo'Bril was exposed to a tetryon field, it might have left residual traces in his tissue. Thanks, Data.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Yes?
RIKER: We've arranged for a shuttle to take you to Starbase twenty three. You can leave the ship at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
RIKER: About everything that's going on. I'm sorry. I'm sure it will all work out.
CRUSHER: Yes, of course.
RIKER: You know the inquiry's just a formality, and Captain Picard will do everything he can for you.
CRUSHER: I'm sure that'll help.
RIKER: But if you do anything foolish before that inquiry. it's not going to look good for you.
CRUSHER: I don't know what you mean.
RIKER: I think you do know what I mean. The best thing for you to do right now is go to your quarters and read a good book. If you do anything to make the situation any worse it's going to be that much harder on you.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Commander. Your concern is noted.
RIKER: Beverly. I'm saying this to you as a friend.
CRUSHER: Yes, Will, I know. But, as a friend, please try to understand. I can't quit now and I don't want you to become involved in this.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Computer, access ship's medical logs and download current autopsy files.
COMPUTER: Autopsy files are restricted to active medical personnel only. Access denied.
CRUSHER: Damn.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher? What do you need the autopsy files for?
CRUSHER: Don't worry. I know I'm not supposed to be here. I'll go.
OGAWA: Computer, access autopsy files.
OGAWA: I assume you'll need the files on Doctor Reyga and Jo'Bril?
CRUSHER: Alyssa.
OGAWA: I can see how important this is to you.
CRUSHER: I don't want you to get involved in this.
OGAWA: Is that an order, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes.
OGAWA: Too bad you're not my boss now.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
OGAWA: So what do we do now?
CRUSHER: First of all, I want to review Jo'Bril's physiology records. Then I want to take another look at the body. I want to see if there's any tetryon traces.
OGAWA: Let's do it.

[Morgue]
CRUSHER: We need to run a tissue scan at the molecular level. Calibrate the scanner to pick up tetryon particles.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor. Re-calibration complete.
CRUSHER: Activate the scan.
OGAWA: Nothing.
CRUSHER: Let's do it again. Use the enhanced resolution mode to boost the sensitivity.
OGAWA: There's something in the subdermal tissue.
CRUSHER: Narrow the scan field. Tetryon traces. Someone did sabotage the shield.
OGAWA: That's a possibility, but this is very circumstantial evidence.
CRUSHER: There's only one way to know for certain.

[Bridge]
TROI: Captain, I'm concerned about Beverly. I've tried several times to talk to her, but she's been avoiding me.
PICARD: I'm not surprised.
TROI: This entire experience has been
DATA: Captain, an unscheduled launch is taking place in Shuttlebay two.
RIKER: No idea. No one's filed a flight plan.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: That's the Justman, the shuttle Reyga modified.
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher, what do you think you're doing?
CRUSHER (screen): Testing a theory, Captain.
PICARD: A theory?
CRUSHER (screen): I think Doctor Reyga's shield does work.
PICARD: Return to the ship immediately.
CRUSHER (screen): I'm sorry.
PICARD: Mister Worf, override the shuttle's computer. Return it to the shuttlebay.
WORF: Aye, sir. Sir, she has isolated her navigational control. It will not be possible to establish remote operation.
RIKER: Get a tractor beam on her.
WORF: I cannot establish a lock. She is too close to the star. Solar interference is too high.
PICARD: Mister Data, what is her heading?
DATA: Bearing two seven one mark four, sir. She is headed into the sun's corona.
CRUSHER (screen): Computer, begin monitoring external temperature.
COMPUTER: External temperature zero point eight million Kelvins and rising.
PICARD: Beverly, what do you hope to accomplish?
CRUSHER (screen): I think Doctor Reyga was right about his shield. The only reason it failed is because it was sabotaged, and I'm going to prove it.
PICARD: But you can't be certain of that. You're betting your life on a hypothesis.
CRUSHER (screen): I'm not wrong.
COMPUTER: External temperature one point nine million Kelvins.
DATA: Sir, the shuttle is entering the corona.
PICARD: Beverly, what's happening?
CRUSHER (screen): I'm all right. Computer, shield status?
COMPUTER: Metaphasic shield holding. All systems within normal operating parameters.
CRUSHER (screen): Congratulations, Doctor Reyga. You did it. Captain, I want you to post security guards around the three visiting scientists. One of them has to be responsible for sabotaging the first test. I think if we
WORF: Sir, we have lost contact.

[Shuttlecraft]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. I've lost you. Come in. Justman to Enterprise. Come in.
CRUSHER: Enterprise, do you hear me? Come in.
JO'BRIL: They cannot hear you. I have severed communications.
CRUSHER: How can you be alive?
JO'BRIL: I'd think after your autopsy on me, you'd know the answer to that.
CRUSHER: The slow rate of cellular decay.
JO'BRIL: It is a natural result of physiostasis. Takarans can control their physiology at a cellular level. We can create the appearance of death.
CRUSHER: In the morgue, you were conscious the whole time. You heard everything we said. You knew everything we were going to do.
JO'BRIL: Move away. Move away.
CRUSHER: What are you doing?
JO'BRIL: I'm sending out a transient subspace signal. It will obscure the shuttle from the Enterprise sensors and they will interpret it as a warp engine breach. They will believe that you have been destroyed. I'd like to thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: For what?
JO'BRIL: All I wanted to do was discredit Reyga so that no one would pursue his technology except me. But you have given me more than I could have hoped. Now I can take the prototype itself back to Takara, where I will develop it into a weapon. All I have to do is wait here until the Enterprise is convinced you are dead, and leaves.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, there is no indication of debris. However, the subspace signal indicates a warp engine breach.
PICARD: All right, begin a phase one search, starting with the shuttlecraft's last known coordinates. Plot a proximity course toward the star.
WORF: Sir, we are picking up an object emerging from the corona.
CRUSHER (screen): Crusher to Enterprise. I'm all right. Returning to the ship. And I finally have the answers I've been looking for. Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 46831.2. I have been reinstated and I will be resuming my duties shortly. In the meantime, I have a personal matter to attend to.

[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Hi, Guinan.
GUINAN: Hello. Ooo, somebody's birthday?
CRUSHER: Not unless it's yours. It's for you.
GUINAN: For me? What's the occasion?
CRUSHER: It's a thank you. For giving me a good kick in the butt.
GUINAN: Oh, now, I didn't, er.
CRUSHER: I did some research. This is the latest design, state of the art. It's specially designed to cushion all vibration so you will never have tennis elbow again.
GUINAN: Thank you, Doctor. This looks like a great racquet, but, er, I don't play tennis. Never have.

[Bridge]
DATA: Good morning, Commander.
RIKER: Data. Interesting night?
DATA: I found it extremely interesting. The lateral sensor arrays ran three separate spectral analyzes of the Alawanir Nebula on three distinct frequencies.
RIKER: Sorry I missed it.
DATA: I will have the report sent to you, sir. We are still on course for the Gariman sector. Our speed is warp six, ETA thirteen hundred hours. Sickbay reported one minor injury in the exobiology department at zero four twenty hours.
RIKER: Very well.
RIKER: Isn't Lieutenant Worf scheduled to replace Ensign Torigan?
DATA: Yes, sir. I was not informed of any change in the duty roster.
RIKER: He's never late. Riker to Lieutenant Worf. Computer, locate Lieutenant Worf.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Worf is in his quarters.
RIKER: Something's wrong. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Security team, meet me on deck seven, section twenty five baker.
SECURITY (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Computer, override security lock on this door. Authorisation, Riker alpha six zero.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Torva luk do shel! Torva
RIKER: Worf, what the hell are you doing?
WORF: Enter.
WORF: Captain.
PICARD: On your feet, Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, your personal affairs are strictly your own concern until they interfere with the operation of this ship. You have now crossed that line. As your Captain, I want to know exactly what is going on.
WORF: It is difficult to explain.
PICARD: Try.
WORF: Ever since I returned from the Carraya system I have felt empty.
PICARD: Does this have something to do with the Klingons you rescued from Carraya Four?
WORF: They were young. They knew nothing of their heritage. So while I was there, I tried to teach them. Teach them about their people, their culture. I told them our ancient stories, instructed them in our customs, explained our beliefs. And then I told them about Kahless. How he united our people long ago. How he gave us strength and honor, and how he promised to return one day and lead us again.
PICARD: Is that what you're doing here? Trying to recapture those feelings?
WORF: Yes. I was trying to summon a vision of Kahless.
PICARD: It's a pity you didn't try using the holodeck instead of setting fire to your quarters.
WORF: Using the holodeck would not have been appropriate. Everything had to be real if Kahless were to appear. But all this was is nothing. He did not come to me. I gave Toq and the others a belief in Sto-Vo-Kor, the life which lies beyond this life where Kahless awaits us. When I saw the power of their beliefs I began to question the strength of my own. And I found it wanting.
PICARD: Have you lost your faith in Sto-Vo-Kor?
WORF: To lose something, one must first possess it. I am not sure I ever had a true belief. But I should not have allowed it to interfere with my duties. My behavior has been
PICARD: Inexcusable. And understandable. It may be that what you are looking for cannot be found here on the Enterprise. Perhaps you need to immerse yourself in Klingon beliefs in order to discover whether they can hold any truths for you. Is there something you can do, is there somewhere you could go to explore your faith more fully?
WORF: Boreth. The Followers of Kahless await his return there. To Klingons, there is no more sacred place.
PICARD: Boreth is only twelve days from here by shuttle. As of this moment, Mister Worf, you are on leave.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: But when you set foot on this ship again, I expect you to perform your duties like a Starfleet officer.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And, Mister Worf? I hope you find what you're looking for.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Lava cave]
DIVOK: Kahless! I see Kahless! He is standing before me with a sword. He wants something. Me. He wants me! He wants me to go with him!
KOROTH: It is a powerful vision you have had, Divok. Kahless wants you to join him in Sto-Vo-Kor. You are only nineteen and yet your place among the honored dead is already secure. Take him back to his chamber. Let him sleep.

[Worf's chamber]
KOROTH: You're leaving us?
WORF: It has been ten days, Koroth. I have had no visions. I have received no insight. There is nothing here for me.
KOROTH: What is the Story of the Promise, Worf?
WORF: When Kahless had united our people and gave them the laws of honor, he saw that his work was done. So one night he gathered his belongings and departed for the edge of the city to say goodbye.
KOROTH: The people wept. They did not want him to go.
WORF: Then Kahless said, 'You are Klingons. You need no one but yourselves. I will go now to Sto-Vo-Kor. But I promise one day I will return.' Then Kahless pointed to a star in the sky and said, 'Look for me there, on that point of light.'
KOROTH: So here we are, on a world circling that distant point of light. It has been fifteen centuries since he made that promise, and still we wait. What are ten days in the life of one Klingon compared to that? Is the son of Mogh really so easily discouraged? You came to us seeking answers but this is a place of questions. Open your heart to Kahless. Ask him your questions. Let him speak to you with your mind unclouded by doubt or hesitation. Only then can you find what you are looking for. If you cannot do that, then perhaps you should return to your starship.

[Lava cave]
WORF: Torva luk do shel. Torva luk
WORF: I see Kahless.
WORF: You are real.
KAHLESS: I am Kahless, and I have returned.

[Temple]
KOROTH: What are you doing? Who are you?
DIVOK: It is Kahless.
KAHLESS: I have returned. You doubt me. Who here knows the story of how this sword was forged?
TORIGAN: No one knows. It is not written in the sacred texts.
KAHLESS: I went into the mountains, all the way to the volcano at Kri'stak. There I cut off a lock of my hair and thrust it into the river of molten rock which poured from the summit. The hair began to burn. Then I plunged it into the lake of Lusor and twisted it into this sword. And after I used it to kill the tyrant Molor I gave it a name. Bat'leth. The sword of honor.
KOROTH: You know. The story of the sword is known only to the High Clerics. It was never written down, so that if he returned, we could be sure it was Kahless.
KAHLESS: I have returned because there is a great need in my people. They fight among themselves in petty wars and corrupt the glory of the Klingon spirit. They have lost their way. But it is not too late. I have returned and I will lead my people again.
KOROTH: Vorcha doh baghk, Kahless!
ALL: Vorcha doh baghk, Kahless! Vorcha doh baghk, Kahless!

[Worf's chambers]
KAHLESS: What is it you are doing?
WORF: I was getting my tricorder.
KAHLESS: Tricorder? Is it a weapon?
WORF: No, no. It is a tool. I intended to use it to see
KAHLESS: To see if I was real. Proceed. Use your tricorder. Well?
WORF: You are Klingon.
KAHLESS: What else could I be?
WORF: There are many possibilities. A shape shifter, a holographic projection.
KAHLESS: So, you are a skeptic, Worf. I like that.
WORF: How do you know my name?
KAHLESS: We have met before. I appeared to you in a vision in the caves of No'Mat. You were just a child then. I told you that you would do something that no Klingon had ever done before. You still do not believe it is me, do you Worf?
WORF: I want to believe.
KAHLESS: That is a beginning.

[Temple]
TORIGAN: Gowron is the Leader of the Council. He commands the entire Defense Force. If he chooses to oppose you
KAHLESS: Do not worry. We are on the threshold of a new era for our people. Klingons from all over the Empire will flock to my banner. Yet something still weighs heavy on the brow of the son of Mogh. Are you contemplating yet another question for me? After three days, I am beginning to wonder if you know how to do anything else.
WORF: Questions are the beginning of wisdom, the mark of a true warrior.
KAHLESS: Do not forget that a leader need not answer questions of those he leads. It is enough that he says to do a thing and they will do it. If he says to run, they run. If he says to fight, they fight. If he says to die, they die.
WORF: If the commander is worthy of their trust.
KAHLESS: NuQ cha'tak. NuQ!
KAHLESS: What is wrong? Is there only anger and bloodlust in your souls? Is that all that is left in the Klingon heart? We do not fight merely to spill blood, but to enrich the spirit. Look at us. Two warriors locked in battle, fighting for honor. How can you not sing for all to hear? We are Klingons! Yes! Let it out! Let the joy in your heart be heard. We are Klingons!
KLINGON: We are Klingons.
KAHLESS: We are Klingons.
ALL: We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46852.2. The Enterprise is to proceed directly to the planet Boreth to take aboard a very unusual guest.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Did you take any other tricorder readings? An anatomical profile or a neurophysiology scan?
WORF: No.
CRUSHER: It's going to be very difficult to eliminate any possibilities at this point. He may be a coalescent being taking Klingon form, or a bioreplicant or even a Klingon who has been surgically altered to look like Kahless.
WORF: There is another possibility. He could be the real Kahless. He may have actually returned as he promised.
DATA: The appearance of Kahless in the lava caves is consistent with the stories found in the Klingon sacred texts.
RIKER: Worf, no offense, but I have trouble believing that the man I that escorted to deck eight is supernatural.
WORF: I did not say that he is. I merely think we should not completely reject the possibility.
PICARD: Look, we have no reason to rule out anything. We are not ordered to investigate the origins of our guest, nor tell anyone what they should believe. We are simply to transport Kahless to the Home World. And while he's here with us, he will be treated as an honored guest.
DATA: Lieutenant? May I ask a question? In the absence of empirical data, how will you determine whether or not this is the real Kahless?
WORF: It is not an empirical matter. It is a matter of faith.
DATA: Faith? Then you do believe Kahless may have supernatural attributes? As an android, I am unable to accept that which cannot be proven through rational means. I would appreciate hearing your insights on this matter.
WORF: Perhaps some other time, Commander. I do not believe I can provide much insight at this minute.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Gowron.
GOWRON: Where is he, Picard?
PICARD: I assume that you're referring to Kahless.
GOWRON: I am referring to the filthy pahtk who is using his name.
PICARD: Well, the person in question is in his quarters at the moment.
GOWRON: What have you learned about him so far?

[Corridor]
GOWRON: What kind of medical analysis have you made? Do you have any theories about his true origin?
PICARD: We haven't done any analysis.
GOWRON: What kind of fools do you have working for you, Picard? The imposter's been aboard for nearly a day.
PICARD: If you wanted to run tests on Kahless, you should have sent a Klingon ship for him.
GOWRON: And have him begin spreading his poisonous lies through a ship of loyal Klingons? Never.
PICARD: If he really is an imposter then you have nothing to worry about.
GOWRON: Kahless has been dead for a thousand years, but the idea of Kahless is still alive. Have you ever fought an idea, Picard? It has no weapon to destroy, no body to kill. The idea of Kahless' return must be stopped here, now, or it will travel through the Empire like a wave and leave nothing but destruction behind.

[Kahless' quarters]
PICARD: So Gowron has come on board in order to test your claim.
KOROTH: Gowron knows that his days are nearly over. Now he comes crawling aboard with some kind of test.
TORIGAN: We do not have to prove anything to Gowron.
KAHLESS: What is this test?
PICARD: He has brought a knife with him, a knife is was supposed to be stained with the blood of Kahless.
TORIGAN: Gowron has brought the Knife of Kirom? No one is permitted to remove it from the sacred vault.
KOROTH: Gowron does not care about what is sacred.
PICARD: He wants to run a genetic analysis on a sample of the blood and on you. That should tell us if there is a biological match. Now if you agree to the test, I will make the Enterprise facilities available to ensure that it is conducted impartially.
KAHLESS: Perhaps it is time to settle the doubts of those who still do not believe. I will allow this test.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There, that should do it. Computer, run a genetic comparison on this blood sample and the tissue belonging to Kahless.
COMPUTER: The genetic patterns are identical.
GOWRON: But how? How can this be?
WORF: It is true. Kahless has returned.

[Kahless' quarters]
WORF: I am sorry. Our replicators do not do justice to Klingon Warnog.
KAHLESS: It has been so long since I have tasted any food or drink. There are many things I have forgotten.
WORF: Kahless, may I ask you about death and Sto-Vo-Kor? Tell me, what awaits us beyond this life.
KAHLESS: I do not have those answers. I am merely a traveler, someone who has journeyed back and forth between this world and the next. While I am in this form, I know only about this world. And there is much work for me to do in this world, and you will be part of it, Worf.
WORF: Me?
KAHLESS: It was your purity of heart that summoned me back from Sto-Vo-Kor, and Koroth has told me about the respect you have earned in the Federation and the Empire. I want you to have a place at my side as we restore honor to our people. Let me tell you about this new Empire we will forge.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: It will be glorious!
GOWRON: It will be war. You are not a fool, Worf. Do you really think that every Klingon in the Empire will bend his knee and grovel before this man just because Koroth says he is Kahless?
WORF: He is Kahless. Your own test proved it.
GOWRON: I will not hand over the Empire to Koroth because of one test.
WORF: It is not Koroth, it is
GOWRON: Of course it is Koroth! Open your eyes. Koroth and the other Guardians have always opposed me. This is nothing more than a ploy for them to finally seize power. Even now, there are warriors on my own ship who want to see Kahless. There are others who believe he is an imposter. The divisions are already forming.
WORF: But it does not have to be this way. We could all join together and welcome Kahless as a united people.
GOWRON: Don't you see? This is exactly why they want you to join them. Because your brother sits on the Council and your voice carries weight in the Empire. They want you to influence others to follow them. Worf, we fought together once side by side to keep the Empire from being torn apart. Will you stand by and let these impostors destroy all that we fought so hard to protect? Renounce him, Worf. Stand with me and we can hold the Empire together.
WORF: You do not understand. Kahless is our future. Only with his help can we revive the pure warriors within ourselves. Listen to him, Gowron. Open your heart. Hear his words. He will restore your faith as he has restored mine. Give him a chance to lift your spirit and cleanse your heart before you take up arms.

[Holodeck Temple]
GOWRON: Koroth. I see that not all fools die young.
KLINGON: Kahless!
KOROTH: Kahless, may I present Gowron, Leader of the High Council.
KLINGON: Kahless.
KAHLESS: Long ago, a storm was heading toward the city of Quin'lat. The people sought protection within the walls. All except one man who remained outside. I went to him and asked what he was doing. I am not afraid, he said. I will not hide my face behind stone and mortar. I will stand before the wind and make it respect me. I honored his choice and went inside. The next day, the storm came and the man was killed. The wind does not respect a fool. Do not stand before the wind, Gowron.
GOWRON: What was his name?
KAHLESS: What?
GOWRON: If you were really there, you should be able to tell us the name of the man outside the walls. Describe him to us. What was he wearing? How tall was he? What color were his eyes?
KAHLESS: I do not remember. It was long ago, and in another lifetime. What matters is, I have returned to restore faith and hope to my people. To lead them back to the way of honor and the glory that was once theirs and can be again. Is that what you oppose, Gowron?
GOWRON: I oppose you. I say you are not Kahless, and I will not bend my knee to you as long as I can draw a breath or pick up a blade.
KOROTH: No!
WORF: Koroth!
KAHLESS: A good try, Gowron, but not enough.
KAHLESS: You have no joy, Gowron. Is your heart so filled of distrust and suspicion that you've forgotten what it is to be truly Klingon?
GOWRON: Kahless. The greatest warrior of them all.

[Kahless' quarters]
KOROTH: Everything will be all right. We will say that Gowron used a dishonorable tactic in his fight with Kahless.
TORIGAN: That he cheated.
WORF: That is a lie. He did not
KOROTH: We do not need to hear any more from the son of Mogh. None of this would have happened if you hadn't brought them together.
KAHLESS: I am Kahless, I am the strongest, the bravest warrior.
TORIGAN: Do not think about what happened. You must think of the future, of the Empire.
WORF: There is no future here. No glorious new era for our people. Gowron was right. You did not know the name of the man who faced the storm. You do not even know what real warnog tastes like. And you certainly are not the greatest warrior of all. Whoever you are, you are not Kahless.
KOROTH: You have said enough. Now get out!
WORF: You are using the name of Kahless for some twisted game. For that alone, you should die. And if you do not tell me what you have done, I will kill you right here.
KOROTH: The problems with your memory are the result of the way you returned.
KAHLESS: What do you mean?
KOROTH: We, the Guardians, have been awaiting your return for centuries, but we did not have the technology to bring you back. Until now. We were able to use an organic sample of the first Kahless to give you life.
KAHLESS: The first Kahless?
WORF: A clone. He is a clone.
KAHLESS: What is a clone?
WORF: A being created in a laboratory by genetic material taken from another being. You are a copy. A fraud.
KOROTH: You are not just a copy. We gave you more than the body of Kahless.
TORIGAN: We found a way to imprint specific information in your neurosynaptic patterns. We gave you memories, and not just any memories. We gave you the experiences of Kahless as written in the sacred texts.
KAHLESS: So, I did not do any of the things that I remember. I was never at the city of Quin'lat. I never went to the Kri'stat volcano.
KOROTH: You were not awakened until we transported you into the cave and you appeared to Worf. Before that time you were unconscious in a laboratory where we accelerated your growth, corrected any genetic anomalies that occurred, gave you the wisdom and memories that
WORF: They grew you in a test tube like some kind of fungus and programmed you like a machine.
KOROTH: You are twisting the truth.
WORF: You talk to me of truth? You, who have brought to life this lie and called it Kahless?
KOROTH: It is not a lie. Genetically, he is Kahless, and he is needed by our people. You know better than anyone the corruption and dishonor that has destroyed the Empire. They need him.
WORF: They do not need a false god.
KOROTH: How do you know that this is not the way the prophesy was to be fulfilled? Who is to say that what we did was wrong?
WORF: I am. I will not let this fraud continue.
KOROTH: Worf! You cannot tell Gowron of this.
WORF: Do not give me orders, Koroth.
KOROTH: All right, but consider this. If you tell Gowron what we have told you, it will destroy him. And with him, the last chance to restore hope to our people. It's your choice.

[Holodeck Temple]
DATA: They have been sitting here for three hours seventeen minutes. They refuse to transport back to the ship with the rest of Gowron's men. They insisted on waiting here until they see Kahless again. Their faith appears to be unaffected by his inability to defeat Gowron. They still believe.
WORF: Then they are fools.
DATA: Does that mean you no longer believe this is the real Kahless?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: I am curious. Do you still think the real Kahless will return someday? Or has this experience only deepened the spiritual crisis which originally sent you to Boreth?
WORF: I do not know.
DATA: I understand your dilemma. I once had what could be considered a crisis of the spirit.
WORF: You?
DATA: Yes. The Starfleet officers who first activated me on Omicron Theta told me I was an android, nothing more than a sophisticated machine with human form. However I realized that if I were simply a machine, I could never be anything else. I could never grow beyond my programming. I found that difficult to accept, so I chose to believe that I was a person, that I had the potential to be more than a collection of circuits and subprocessors. It is a belief which I still hold.
WORF: How did you come to your decision?
DATA: I made a leap of faith.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: The man who appeared to me on Boreth is not Kahless. He is a clone.
GOWRON: A clone!
WORF: Yes.
GOWRON: Did you really think you would get away with this kind of fraud, Koroth? I will have you and this abomination put to death.
WORF: It does not matter, Gowron. You will still not be able to stand against him.
GOWRON: What? He's not real. You just said so.
WORF: I said he was not the Kahless, but in the minds of our people he can be just as powerful as Kahless. Even now, two members of your own crew are sitting on our Holodeck waiting for him to return.
GOWRON: I do not care what they think.
WORF: But hey are not alone. Like many of our people, they need something to believe in, just like I did. Something larger than themselves, something that will give their lives meaning. They need Kahless.
GOWRON: But when they find out the truth?
WORF: It will not matter, Gowron. Despite the facts, they will still believe. They will make a leap of faith and there will be others just like them. Not everyone, but enough to plunge the Empire into civil war if you oppose them.
GOWRON: What are you saying? That I should just hand over the Empire?
WORF: No, that would be unwise as well.
KOROTH: Then what are you proposing, Worf?
WORF: You were right about one thing, Koroth. Our people are becoming decadent and corrupt. They need moral leadership. Kahless can be that leader, as Emperor.
GOWRON: There hasn't been an Emperor in three centuries!
WORF: The political power will remain with the High Council. Kahless would be a figurehead, but he will have the ability to rally the people, to lead by example, to guide them in spiritual matters.
KOROTH: The title is meaningless without the power to back it up.
WORF: Real power comes from within the heart. You would have the power to mold the Klingon heart. You could return them to honorable ways according to the original teachings of Kahless which are within you. It would be a great challenge, if you have the courage to accept it.
GOWRON: And what will we tell the people about their new Emperor? That he appeared in a cave or a laboratory?
WORF: We will tell them the truth. All of the truth. But we will tell them that even if he is not the real Kahless, he is the rightful heir to Kahless.
GOWRON: And if I refuse to go along with this?
WORF: Then my brother and those who support him on the Council will fight you, and I will fight you. And the Empire will fall back into civil war.
GOWRON: What do you say about this, Koroth?
KOROTH: What I say is unimportant.
KAHLESS: It is acceptable.
KAHLESS: Join with me, Gowron. Let us usher in this new era together.
GOWRON: Vorcha doh bagh Kahless.

[Transporter room]
KAHLESS: Farewell, Worf.
WORF: Goodbye.
KAHLESS: What's wrong? You should be proud of what you've accomplished.
WORF: I went to Boreth to find my faith. For a time I thought I had. But my heart is empty again. I do not know what to believe.
KAHLESS: You doubt the real Kahless will return one day. You doubt that he is still waiting for you in Sto-Vo-Kor. Kahless left us. all of us, a powerful legacy. A way of thinking and acting that makes us Klingon. If his words hold wisdom and his philosophy is honorable, what does it really matter if he returns? What is important is that we follow his teachings. Perhaps the words are more important than the man. Q'apla, son of Mogh.
WORF: Q'apla Kahless.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46915.2. The Enterprise is orbiting Nervala Four, waiting for an opportunity to retrieve scientific data left there by Starfleet researchers when they were forced to evacuate eight years ago.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any requests tonight?
TROI: Night Bird.
RIKER: Any request?
TROI: Night Bird!
RIKER: Ladies and gentlemen, Night Bird. One, two.
CRUSHER: What was that all about?
TROI: Will's been trying to get this piece right for ten years now. He's never made it through the solo.
TROI: Here it comes.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
DATA (voiceover): Commander, you are needed on the Bridge.
RIKER: On my way. Saved by the bell.

[Bridge]
RIKER: You wanted to see me, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears we will be able to transport to the surface sooner than anticipated.
RIKER: Is the planet's distortion field re-phasing sooner than we predicted?
DATA: No, sir. Using the Potemkin's transport logs from the original evacuation, Commander La Forge and I were able to modify the transporters.
RIKER: So we can beam through a higher distortion field.
DATA: The transporters are considerably more efficient than those used on the Potemkin eight years ago.
RIKER: That's a good thing. I almost didn't make it off the surface. When can we get started?
DATA: Ninety seven minutes, sir.
RIKER: How long will the transport window be open?
DATA: Twenty six minutes. After that, the distortion field will re-phase.
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time to retrieve the database.
DATA: The planet's proximity to its sun will create two additional transport windows in the next three days.
RIKER: Let's hope that's enough.
DATA: It will have to be, sir. The next transport window will not occur for another eight years, when the planet's orbit will bring it close enough to the sun to de-phase the distortion field.
RIKER: Okay, notify the away team that we're going in ahead of schedule. I'll tell the Captain.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Research station]
RIKER: This is different than I remember. The place was a mess when we left.
DATA: Commander.
RIKER: Someone was here.
WORF: A ship could have been caught in the distortion field and crashed. The survivors may have taken refuge here.
DATA: Commander, someone is approaching. A humanoid. Forty meters due east and closing.
RIKER: Who are you?
RIKER 2: Who are you?
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker from the Federation Starship Enterprise.
RIKER 2: That's not possible. I'm Will Riker.
DATA: May I ask how you got here?
RIKER 2: Eight years ago, I led a team to evacuate this station.
RIKER: What ship were you on?
RIKER 2: The Potemkin.
DATA: Why did you not return to the Potemkin with the others?
RIKER 2: I was the last one out. The distortion field must have interfered with the transport. They lost their signal lock on me. When I tried to contact the ship, I couldn't get through the interference. If you check with Starfleet I'm sure they will have recorded that I was lost on that day.
RIKER: That's not what happened. I was the last one out and I made it back to the Potemkin.
RIKER 2: You don't believe me?
RIKER: It's not that we don't believe you. It's just hard to see how both stories could be true. Would you be willing have our Doctor check you out?
RIKER 2: Of course.
RIKER: Mister Worf, take him directly to Sickbay, and notify the Captain once you're on board. Let's get to work.
WORF: Worf to Enterprise. Two to beam up.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir. Stand by.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Looks like you fractured your arm a few years ago.
RIKER 2: I was doing some repairs under the station when an earthquake hit. I got caught in a rockslide. I had to set it myself.
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard.
RIKER 2: Lieutenant Will Riker.
PICARD: I hope you understand our need to verify your claim.
RIKER 2: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: Genetically, he's indistinguishable from Commander Riker.
PICARD: Could there be some sort of cloning involved here?
CRUSHER: I don't think so. There's no genetic drift.
PICARD: But it's not conclusive.
CRUSHER: That's why I compared their brain scans. Brain organization patterns are as unique as fingerprints. Except for minor, minor differences, theirs are identical.
PICARD: But can't brain patterns be cloned?
CRUSHER: No. They're determined by experience, mostly from early childhood.
PICARD: How can two grown men share the same childhood experiences? It just doesn't make any sense.
RIKER 2: I am Will Riker. I don't know who or what made it back to the Potemkin that day, but it wasn't me.
PICARD: Lieutenant, our Chief Engineer is checking the transport logs of the Potemkin. Perhaps that will shed some light on the matter. Don't worry, we will get to the bottom of this. And in the meantime, you will be taken to your quarters. Try and make yourself as comfortable as possible.
RIKER 2: I will. The replicators on the station haven't worked for a long time ago. It's been a while since I've had a decent meal. Doctor.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Apparently there was a massive energy surge in the distortion field around the planet just at the moment you tried to beam out. The Transporter Chief tried to compensate by initiating a second containment beam.
DATA: An interesting approach. He must have been planning to reintegrate the two patterns in the transport buffer.
LAFORGE: Actually, it wasn't really necessary. Commander Riker's pattern maintained its integrity with just the one containment beam. He made it back to the ship just fine.
CRUSHER: What happened to the second beam?
LAFORGE: The Transporter Chief shut it down, but somehow it was reflected back to the surface.
PICARD: And another William Riker materialized there.
RIKER: How was the second pattern able to maintained its integrity?
LAFORGE: The containment beam must have had the exact same phase differential as the distortion field.
RIKER: Which one of them is real?
LAFORGE: That's the thing. Both. You were both materialized from a complete pattern.
CRUSHER: Up until that moment, you were the same person.
PICARD: But of course, as you and Lieutenant Riker have lived very different lives for the past eight years, you are now very different people. I suppose it's a little like meeting someone's twin. But no matter how strange it may seem to us, we now have two Will Rikers on board. And as Lieutenant Riker will be with us for several days, I think we should do everything we can to make him comfortable and welcome.
RIKER: We still have the problem of retrieving the database. The computer on the station is not completely operational.
DATA: Many of its components have been removed. Apparently Lieutenant Riker used them to keep the station's radiation shield operational.
PICARD: Can it be repaired, at least enough to access the database?
RIKER: Without knowing what he did, that'll be tough.
PICARD: Perhaps he can help us.
PICARD: He was alone down there for a long time. I'm hesitant to let him go back until he's been evaluated.
TROI: I'll talk to him.
PICARD: Thank you, Counselor.

[Lt Riker's quarters]
RIKER 2: Come in.
TROI: Hello, Will.
RIKER 2: Imzadi.
TROI: Will.
RIKER 2: I never thought I'd see you again.
TROI: We need to talk.
RIKER 2: You're on board because of him.
TROI: No. Commander Riker and I are friends. Close friends, but nothing more. Why don't we sit down? Do you remember the last time we saw each other?
RIKER 2: Like yesterday. The Janaran Falls on Betazed.
TROI: It was the day before you started your tour on the Potemkin.
RIKER 2: And we were going to meet on Risa, six weeks later.
TROI: We never did.
RIKER 2: I know.
TROI: No, what I mean is, Commander Riker and I never did. You see, he earned a promotion very quickly.
RIKER 2: I know that too. 'For exceptional valor during the evacuation of the research station on Nervala Four'. I looked at his service record.
TROI: He chose to make his career a priority. There wasn't much time for anything else. We kept in touch but we didn't see each other again until we were both posted to the Enterprise two years later. By then our feelings for each other had changed. We've served together for six years. Things never went back to the way they used to be.
RIKER 2: I had a lot of time on my hands when I was down on that station. There were days I felt so alone I thought I might lose my mind. Do you know how I made it through? I thought if I hung on for more day, they'd rescue me. Maybe I'd see you again. I guess things don't always work out the way you expect them to.
TROI: I know this isn't what you were hoping for, but that doesn't mean you can't make a future for yourself.
RIKER 2: Thanks.
TROI: Captain Picard wanted me to find out if you'd be willing to help us retrieve the station's database.
RIKER 2: I reconfigured that computer so many times they probably can't make heads or tails of it. I'd be happy to help.
TROI: Do you feel up to it?
RIKER 2: Absolutely.
TROI: Good. I'll tell the Captain. Well, I have to go.
RIKER 2: Deanna. I know it's been a long time since we've been together, and I know your feelings have changed. Mine haven't. I can't just give up. I'd like to be with you again.
TROI: Goodnight, Will.

[Transporter room]
PALMER: Phase distortion is dropping. The second transport window opens in forty two seconds.
RIKER: How long will we have, Lieutenant?
PALMER: Thirty six minutes, sir.
WORF: We are losing time. Lieutenant Riker should be here.
RIKER: Computer, locate Lieutenant
RIKER: Cancel inquiry.
WORF: You were supposed to report here at eight hundred hours.
RIKER 2: I'm sorry, I was
RIKER: I guess it's been a while since you've had to punch a clock. Let's go. Energize.

[Research station]
RIKER 2: I've shut down most of the consoles to save power. I re-routed just about everything through here.
RIKER: Check out the primary EPS system. See if you can get some power to the rest of these consoles.
RIKER 2: I shunted the database to the main core underneath the station.
RIKER: Can we access it from here?
RIKER 2: There's been a lot of seismic activity over the years. If the servo-links were damaged we may not be able to. I'll try to tap into the command pathways. You see if you can access and disable the file server.
RIKER: You know, I've been thinking we should probably let Dad know what happened.
RIKER 2: I'm sure he'll be thrilled to know there are two of us now.
RIKER: Actually, he and I have been able to patch a few things up.
RIKER 2: I've been able to get by for a long time without seeing him. I'm not about to start now. What made you contact him?
RIKER: I didn't. He came on board the Enterprise to brief me when I was offered the Aries.
RIKER 2: What did he say when you turned down your own command?
RIKER: He couldn't understand why I did it.
RIKER 2: For once he and I agree on something.
WORF: The primary EPS coupling is fused. The entire unit will have to be replaced.
RIKER 2: I've accessed the command pathways. The interlink pathways are functioning now.
RIKER: See if that did the trick. No, it's not working.
RIKER 2: The servo-link must be damaged. We're going to have to go under the station and access the core directly.
DATA: We have less than three minutes left.
RIKER 2: I'll stay here. I'll be finished by the time the third window opens.
RIKER: It's too dangerous. Our scans show the caverns are unstable.
RIKER 2: I've been down there dozens of times. I know my way around.
RIKER: We'll come back during the third window, We'll bring a new EPS coupling and try to access the core from another console up here. Riker to Enterprise.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here.
RIKER: We're ready to beam out.
RIKER 2: You go ahead. I'll be finished by the time you get back.
RIKER: Hold it! I gave you an order, Lieutenant.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Computer, valerian root tea, hot.
TROI: Meet me in Transporter room three at nineteen hundred hours. It's important.

[Transporter room]
TROI: It pulses unendingly all through the night. Seek out the crystal that powers our flight.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Can I help you, Counselor?
TROI: No, thank you.

[Corridor]
TROI: What the future holds no one can know, But forward we look and forward we go.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER 2: The Janaran falls.
TROI: I remember. Where did you get this?
RIKER 2: I made it a couple of years ago down on the station.
TROI: You made this?
RIKER 2: You should have seen the first two. It took a while to get a fine enough beam out of the phaser.
TROI: It's lovely. Thank you.
RIKER 2: Can you stay and talk? I wanted to remember our last night together.
TROI: So, how does it feel being with people again?
RIKER 2: Great. Strange. For a long time I did whatever I wanted, whenever I wanted. It's been hard taking orders again.
TROI: I can imagine.
RIKER 2: But I guess I'll have to get used to it if I want to get my career going again.
TROI: Is that what you've decided to do?
RIKER 2: Remember, I'm the one who wanted to make Captain by the time I was thirty five. I'm a little behind schedule, I'll admit that.
TROI: It's good you don't feel set back.
RIKER 2: I do. Things are a little more complicated than I had planned, but there's nothing going to stand in the way of my getting what I want.
WAITER: There you go.
RIKER 2: Thanks. You don't know how many times I thought about you, about us. For weeks after the evacuation, I kept thinking they'd find a way through the distortion field and come back for me. I even thought we'd meet on Risa like we planned. But days went by and nobody came. Then I realized why. They thought that I had been killed in the beam out. No one came down because they thought there was no one to come down for. So I figured that they'd had a memorial service for me. Somehow that made me feel better.
TROI: I can understand that.
RIKER 2: You were there, all dressed in black. Very flattering on you, by the way.
TROI: I'm sure I looked terrible with my eyes all red and swollen from crying.
RIKER 2: Sometimes I would look up into the sky and I'd think, if I tried hard enough, I could make you feel my presence. That if I could let you know that I was alive, maybe you'd wait for me. I know it sounds crazy, but there were times when I could've sworn. What am I talking about?
TROI: The other day, when I told you about how Commander Riker and I didn't meet on Risa, what I didn't say was how disappointed I was.
RIKER 2: You didn't have to. I knew.
TROI: I started to hear from him less and less. I knew his career was taking him away from me but I didn't want to believe it was over. I spent a lot of time thinking about him. Wondering where he was, what he was doing. Sometimes I'd look into the sky and imagine that he knew, and that somehow he could sense me thinking about him. So, who knows? Maybe one night we were looking up at the same star, and you were thinking about me, and in a way, I was thinking about you.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: You wanted to see me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Number One. Come in.
PICARD: Lieutenant Riker has been to see me to talk about the away mission. He believes that the only way to retrieve the database is by directly accessing the main core underneath the station.
RIKER: The seismic activity makes those caverns very unstable. In my opinion, it's too risky.
PICARD: He said that he was down there recently. He seemed confident that it could be done safely.
RIKER: There's a good chance we will be able to retrieve the database from one of the consoles inside the station.
PICARD: But if it doesn't work, we won't have another chance for eight years.
RIKER: Lieutenant Riker's plan is more dangerous, but it does have a better chance of succeeding.
PICARD: Given the importance of the data, I think that it's worth the risk.
RIKER: I'll look over the schematics and I'll draw up a mission plan.
PICARD: I'm sure that Lieutenant Riker will be happy to help you with that.
RIKER: I'll talk to him.

[Engineering]
CREWWOMAN: Sir.
RIKER: Lieutenant.
RIKER 2: Sir.
RIKER: I just met with the Captain about your mission recommendation. I would appreciate it if next time you came to me first.
RIKER 2: I tried talking to you yesterday on the station. You wouldn't hear me out.
RIKER: I heard you, Lieutenant. I rejected your plan.
RIKER 2: May I ask what the Captain decided?
RIKER: The Captain has decided to go with your recommendation, but that's not the point.
RIKER 2: Isn't it?
RIKER: If you think I'm coming down on you because the Captain overruled me, think again. I happen to disagree with his decision, but he is my commanding officer and I follow his orders. Just so there's no confusion, I am your commanding officer and I expect you to do the same. If you can't, there's no place for you on my away team.
RIKER 2: Yes, sir.
RIKER: There will be a meeting in the Observation lounge at fourteen hundred hours to draw up a mission plan.

[Gymnasium]
TROI: We stayed in Ten Forward talking for hours.
CRUSHER: Then what happened?
TROI: He walked me to my quarters.
CRUSHER: Then what happened?
TROI: Beverly!
CRUSHER: I'm just asking.
TROI: You know it's been over between Will and me for a long time.
CRUSHER: He's not Will. He is Will but, you know what I mean.
TROI: It's really hard for me to separate my feelings for them.
CRUSHER: Deanna, just because things turned out the way they did between you and Commander Riker, doesn't mean you shouldn't let things between you and Lieutenant Riker take their own course.
TROI: I knew you'd encourage me.
CRUSHER: I thought that's that why you brought it up.
CRUSHER: Well, I think I'll call it a day.
TROI: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Bye.
RIKER 2: Some form of tai chi chuan?
TROI: Klingon exercises, actually. Lieutenant Worf teaches a class.
RIKER 2: The forms are very similar. Do that move again.
TROI: You just did the KoH-man-ara.
RIKER 2: Tai chi chuan. It's called the crane block. Now let's try something else.
RIKER 2: What was that called? Mister Worf's a very good teacher.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Hello, Will.
RIKER: If you want to be with him, you don't have to ask my permission. It's the look in your eyes. I recognize it. You used to have it for me.
TROI: We've both had relationships with other people. This is different. I didn't know how you'd feel about it.
RIKER: Flattered, sort of.
TROI: This must be very strange for you.
RIKER: Ever since he came on board, I find myself thinking about the choice you and I made.
TROI: Me too.
RIKER: Do me a favor. Be careful.
TROI: Will, I know you and he have had some problems.
RIKER: That's not what I'm talking about. If he had gotten off the planet instead of me, don't you think he would have made the same choices that I made? I just don't want you to be hurt again.

[Cmdr Riker's quarters]
WORF: Two pair.
RIKER: Full boat, kings over. I'd like to thank you both for your very generous contributions.
RIKER: Come in.
RIKER 2: I thought you'd be alone. Excuse me.
RIKER: Why don't you join us?
DATA: The game is five card draw, no limit. Ante, please.
DATA: Lieutenant?
RIKER 2: Three. please.
DATA: Mister Worf?
WORF: Four.
DATA: Commander.
RIKER: I'll play these.
DATA: Dealer takes two. You control the bet, Lieutenant.
RIKER 2: Fifty.
WORF: Fold.
RIKER: Here's your fifty. And ten more.
RIKER 2: You didn't take any cards. You must be holding something. Why not make it a little sweeter?
RIKER: No, thanks.
RIKER 2: Playing it safe?
RIKER: You in?
DATA: I will call.
RIKER 2: Here's your ten, and it will cost you another one hundred.
RIKER: I've practiced in the mirror too long to be fooled by that face. You're bluffing. Here's your hundred and twenty more.
DATA: Dealer folds.
RIKER 2: I thought if one thing were clear by now, it's that you and I play things a little differently.
RIKER: Why don't we wait and see who comes out on top.
RIKER 2: I thought you were willing to settle for second. Commander.
RIKER: I've never settled for anything in my life. I know what I want, I know what I've got, and you'd be lucky to do as well. Lieutenant.
RIKER 2: Here's your twenty. Three hundred more.
RIKER: Now I know you're bluffing.
RIKER 2: Are you in or not?
RIKER: Why don't we get this over with? I'll call your three, and I'll raise you anything you've got left. Well?
RIKER 2: Take it. You always had the better hand, in everything.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
RIKER 2: Hi. I'm sorry to just stop by like this but there's something I'd like to talk to you about.
RIKER 2: Captain Picard made has some inquiries. He managed to get me a posting on the Gandhi. And considering how long I've been out of commission, it's an amazing opportunity.
TROI: When would you leave?
RIKER 2: In about a week.
TROI: I see.
RIKER 2: Deanna. After I've served for six months, I'm eligible to bring family aboard. If we got married
TROI: You said those exact words to me before you went to serve on the Potemkin.
RIKER 2: I know. I was just held up for a while.
TROI: But if you hadn't been, what would have happened between us?
RIKER 2: I wouldn't've made the mistake of leaving you. I know that much.
TROI: I don't know if I can believe that. It took me a long time to get over what happened between Commander Riker and me. I don't know that I want to put myself in that position again.
RIKER 2: I would never hurt you, Deanna.
TROI: It's not just that. I've worked hard to make a life for myself on the Enterprise. I'm happy here.
RIKER 2: If the situation were different, I'd stay. But I can't. Not while he's aboard.
TROI: I know.
RIKER 2: Are you saying it's over?
TROI: No. No. I just don't know if I'm ready to give up my life here. Maybe we both need some time.
RIKER 2: Goodnight.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The third transport window has opened and the away team is making their final attempt at retrieving the database.

[Research station]
RIKER 2: Once we restore the servo link, you can shunt the database up to this console. Are you ready, Commander Data?
RIKER: You're with me, Lieutenant.
RIKER 2: I thought Commander Data's expertise.
RIKER: It doesn't take that much expertise to repair a servo link. You and I can handle it.
DATA: Lieutenant, I am curious about something. If you met a double of yourself, would you have difficulty interacting with him?
WORF: I think so.
DATA: Why?
WORF: I am not easy to get along with.
DATA: But Commander Riker and Lieutenant Riker are. Yet they seem to have trouble getting along with each another. I have found that humans value their uniqueness, that sense that they are different from every one else. The existence of a double would preclude that feeling. Could that be the source of the friction?
WORF: Or perhaps it is more a matter of seeing something in your double. Something you do not like in yourself.

[Cavern]
RIKER 2: This is it. There's the core, over there.
RIKER: You waiting for something?
RIKER 2: Your orders, sir. How would you like me to get over there, sir?
RIKER: You've been down here dozens of times. I'm sure you know the best way.
RIKER 2: Yes, sir. I do.
RIKER 2: It's leaking ion radiation.
RIKER: Why didn't you report this?
RIKER 2: It wasn't here before. This must have just happened recently. If we have to repair this conduit, we won't have time to access that computer core.
RIKER: Scan it now.
RIKER 2: It's working. The radiation levels are dropping to normal.
RIKER: Next time, don't give up so easily.
RIKER: Hang on! Come on, grab on. Come on! Come on, climb! Come on! I'm being pulled in.
RIKER 2: Let go! One of us has to get out of here.
RIKER: Climb! Come on! Climb! Climb!

[Research station]
DATA: They have restored the servo link to the core. We can begin downloading the database.
WORF: Initiating data transfer.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46920.1. We have retrieved the database from Nervala station and are headed for our rendezvous with the Gandhi.

[Lt. Riker's quarters]
RIKER 2: Come in.
TROI: I hear the Gandhi's going on a terraforming mission to the Lagana Sector.
RIKER 2: That's right. It'll take us four months just to get there.
TROI: I won't be joining you.
RIKER 2: I guess I'm not surprised to hear that.
TROI: I'm just not ready to give up my life here. Not yet.
RIKER 2: Come in.
RIKER: I'm sorry.
RIKER 2: It's all right.
RIKER: I wanted to give you something.
RIKER: My quarters are full of things that I suppose belong to both of us. The least I could do is give you this.
RIKER 2: Thanks.
RIKER: Good luck, Will.
RIKER 2: I actually thought I might go with the name Thomas.
TROI: Your middle name.
RIKER: I guess we really are different. I never really cared for that name.
RIKER 2: Well, I sort of like it. I guess I'd better get going.
RIKER 2: I waited a long time. I guess I can wait a little longer. Take care of her.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Oh, you really did it this time, Will. This is not just a scrape, this is a very deep cut. Well, I can heal it, of course, but you've got to stop playing Parrises Squares as if you're twenty one years old. One of these days you're going to fall and break your neck, and I'm not going to be able to heal that as easily.
RIKER: I wasn't playing Parrises Squares.
CRUSHER: Worf's callisthenic program?
RIKER: No.
CRUSHER: I give up. What was it?
RIKER: I was trying to feed Spot.
CRUSHER: Data's cat?
RIKER: I told him I'd feed him while he was gone. I was just putting down the bowl of food. The next thing I know there's a hissing ball of fur coming at my face. I hate cats.
CRUSHER: I love cats. You know, you've just got to know how to handle them.
RIKER: Maybe you'd like to do it.
CRUSHER: I would be honored, if I could
WORF (voiceover): Commander Riker to the Bridge.
RIKER: On my way. Oh, by the way, you'll need this.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report.
WORF: We are picking up a distress call on long range sensors. It is Romulan, sir.
RIKER: Romulan?
WORF: They claim they have suffered a complete engine failure. Power levels are dropping. Life support is failing. It could be a trick.
RIKER: How long before we rendezvous with Captain Picard?
WORF: Approximately thirteen hours.
RIKER: Lay in a course for the Romulan ship. Let's put up shields and go to Red Alert. I want to be ready for anything.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46944.2. Commander Data, Mister La Forge, Counselor Troi and I are en route to the Enterprise, after attending a three day conference on the psychological effects of long-term deep-space assignments.

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA: Computer activate automatic helm control.
COMPUTER: Helm control activated.

[Runabout living section]
TROI: I was just leaving the reception when this Ktarian walks up to me and says, hello, Diane. I understand you're an empath. I'm a very sensitive man myself. I'm doing a thesis on interspecies mating rituals. Would you care to join me in some empirical research?
LAFORGE: That's a very good impression of Doctor Mizan.
TROI: How did you know?
LAFORGE: He's notorious, but he really is an expert on interspecies mating practices.
DATA: Did you help him with his research, Counselor?
TROI: Absolutely not.
DATA: I thought it was a topic you were interested in.
LAFORGE: How did you enjoy the rest of the conference, Counselor?
TROI: To be honest, I was bored. I spent most of my time at Professor Wagner's phylobiology seminar. I thought the idea of the seminar was that we would all participate, bring different points of views to the discussion. He gathered two hundred scientists from all over the Federation, and all he did was put us to sleep.
DATA: I have a memory record of the entire lecture, Counselor. I can repeat the portions you missed, if you
TROI: No, thank you, Data.
PICARD: Well, it was little better at the physiognomy workshop. Doctor Vassbinder gave an hour long dissertation on the ionization effect of warp nacelles before he realized that the topic was supposed to be psychology.
LAFORGE: Why didn't anybody tell him?
PICARD: There was no opportunity. There was no pause. He just kept talking in one long, incredibly unbroken sentence, moving from topic to topic so that no one had a chance to interrupt. It was really quite hypnotic.
LAFORGE: Well, I had a great time. The warp-energy symposium was fascinating. I actually had an opportunity to touch a plasma field.
TROI: Really? What was it like?
LAFORGE: It was incredible. I could feel the plasma moving up my arm. It was warm and, oh, there was this amazing tingling sensation that
TROI: Captain? Data?
LAFORGE: Moved through my chest. It was incredible. It was like taking a bath in pure energy.
DATA: It was not painful?
LAFORGE: Oh, no. Counselor? Is there something wrong?
TROI: I'm not sure.
LAFORGE: Well, our bioscans check out. There are no physiological anomalies. If something did happen, it didn't leave any biological traces.
PICARD: How long did it appear to you that we were frozen?
TROI: I don't know. Four, maybe five seconds. You just stopped and then started again. I can't explain it.
DATA: My memory record does not indicate a pause or disruption during that time period. My internal chronometer and the ship's computer are both perfectly synchronized. There does not appear to be a temporal discrepancy.
LAFORGE: Data, let's run a ship-wide diagnostic. Maybe we missed something.
PICARD: Let's go through all this again. You were sitting there. The rest of us were here. Describe the exact moment when we appeared to freeze.
TROI: Well, Geordi was talking about what it felt like to touch the plasma field and you were taking a sip of tea.
PICARD: Did you sense something from any of us at that time? Any unusual emotion?
TROI: Not a thing. I was empathically aware of you right up to the moment you froze, and then it all stopped. The past few days have been exhausting. Maybe it was my imagination. There were moments in that lecture hall when I thought time was standing still there, too.
PICARD: Or there is another possibility, Counselor. This could be nothing more than simple
PICARD: Are you all right, Counselor?
TROI: What happened?
DATA: You were motionless for three minutes eleven seconds.
PICARD: It appears to be the same effect that you described in us. Do you remember anything?
TROI: No. One second I was talking to you, and the next you were all standing around me.
LAFORGE: Wait a second. This is weird.
TROI: What is it?
LAFORGE: I had the tricorder run a comparison between the bioscan I took of you earlier and the one I took just now. In the time between the two scans, you should have aged twenty three minutes, but according to your cellular decay levels you've only aged twenty minutes.
PICARD: How do you account for this discrepancy?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It's as if for Counselor Troi, for three minutes time just stopped.
PICARD: Mister Data, contact the Enterprise. Tell Commander Riker to meet us at the rendezvous point as soon as possible. Have him scan the region for temporal anomalies.
DATA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I'll check the sensor logs, see if I can find anything.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, may I see you?

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA: The Enterprise is not responding to our hails.
PICARD: Are we within sensor range?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Increase speed to the rendezvous coordinates.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: We have an engine failure warning in the
PICARD: Report!
LAFORGE: The starboard nacelle just cut out.
DATA: Attitude control has been restored.
PICARD: Full stop. What happened?
LAFORGE: The starboard antimatter pod is completely drained. The fuel reserves are empty.
PICARD: Is there a fuel containment leak?
LAFORGE: No, sir. The containment field is intact. all engine systems are operational. The fuel is just gone.
DATA: Geordi, I believe I have an explanation. According to the plasma conversion sensor, the starboard engine has been in continuous operation for forty seven days.
LAFORGE: Forty seven days? Nah. Let's check that sensor. It must be malfunctioning.
PICARD: I'll check the fuel consumption logs.

[Runabout living section]
TROI: What happened?
PICARD: My hand.
TROI: The cells are metabolizing at an incredible speed. Almost fifty times normal.
PICARD: The pain is going away.
TROI: Your metabolism's stabilizing.
PICARD: It happened when I reached for the bowl of fruit.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a temporal disturbance intersecting the table. It appears that within the disturbance, time is moving at an accelerated rate, approximately fifty times faster than normal. The disturbance is spherical in shape. It is extending outward from the hull approximately seventeen meters from the ship.
LAFORGE: That would cover the starboard nacelle. No wonder it used up all its fuel.
PICARD: Check the hull integrity.
DATA: It does not appear to be affected.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, see if you can move us away from the disturbance.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: Lateral thrusters online. Data, plot a course away from the disturbance.

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Make sure it doesn't come in contact with our other engine.
DATA: Course plotted. Adjust pitch to twenty seven point three degrees. Set heading one eight zero

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA (voiceover): Mark zero.
LAFORGE: Got it. Reversing at fifteen meters per second.
DATA (voiceover): We are clearing the phenomenon.

[Runabout living section]
DATA: All stop.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: What was that?

[Runabout living section]
DATA: There is another temporal disturbance directly behind us.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: Captain?

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I think you'd better come take a look at this.

[Runabout cockpit]
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: The sensors are picking up temporal disturbances throughout the region. Different configurations, different sizes. They're everywhere.
DATA: Within each disturbance it appears that time is moving at a different rate.
LAFORGE: It's almost as if something has shattered the space-time continuum.
DATA: The fragmentation effect continues along a heading of two seven zero mark one five.
LAFORGE: That's the direction of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Can we navigate around these fragments?
LAFORGE: We'll have to limit our maneuvering speed to one half impulse, but I think we can do it.
PICARD: Get us to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: These are the coordinates.
PICARD: Perhaps the Enterprise has been delayed.
LAFORGE: I've got the long range sensors on maximum, sir. There's no sign of the Enterprise. But I am picking up a faint reading. Possibly metallic. It's difficult to tell. The energy levels are practically non-existent.
PICARD: Take us to it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: The fragmentation effect is increasing.
LAFORGE: Slowing to one eighth impulse.
PICARD: There she is.
TROI: My God.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The Enterprise and the warbird both appear to be trapped within one of the temporal fragments.
LAFORGE: The fragments seem to be converging at about this point. I'd say we're looking at the center of the temporal disturbances.
PICARD: Scan for life signs.
DATA: Sensors cannot penetrate the subspace field. I am unable to scan within the vessels.
TROI: It looks like the Enterprise has been damaged. There, on the port nacelle.
LAFORGE: The warbird doesn't look to have sustained any damage at all. I wonder if the Enterprise even had time to get off a shot.
TROI: The Romulans could've decloaked before the Enterprise had a chance to respond.
PICARD: There's a second energy beam. It's coming from the Enterprise deflector array. Do you have any idea what that could be?
DATA: It is impossible to tell from a visual inspection. However, it appears to be focused on the warbird's Engineering section.
PICARD: We're not going to be able to determine anything from here. We need to get on board the Enterprise.
DATA: That would be inadvisable, sir. In each of the three instances we came into contact with one of the temporal fragments, we were integrated into its time frame.
LAFORGE: If we beamed aboard the Enterprise, we'd be frozen in time just like they are.
PICARD: Well, we have to find some way of staying unfrozen. Mister La Forge, what about a subspace forcefield like the one we used on Devidia Two? Could something like that protect us from the effects of the temporal fragment?
LAFORGE: Possibly. We'd need an awfully sensitive phase discriminator in order to moderate that kind of field.
DATA: The emergency transporter armbands contain a type seven phase discriminator. It should be possible to reconfigure their subspace emitters.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, that would certainly isolate us from the effects of the other time frame. But if we wanted to interact with that environment, we'd have to restrict the field. It would have to be practically skintight.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: I will attempt to narrow the field, sir.
LAFORGE: Captain, I think this is going to work, but it's going to take some time.
PICARD: Well, Mister La Forge, it would seem that time is something we have plenty of.
LAFORGE: We've channeled all communications through the subspace relays in the armbands. That way we'll be able to be in continual communication.
TROI: How long will the fields last?
LAFORGE: About an hour, maybe less. Don't worry. I'll monitor you very carefully.
DATA: Counselor?
TROI: I got a little dizzy for a second.
LAFORGE: We've created an artificial pocket of time around you, so it's probably playing tricks with your equilibrium. It might take a little while to get used to it. Let me know if it gets any worse.
PICARD: Beam us directly to the Enterprise Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Energizing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: There are three Romulans, all of them with disruptors. One at conn. There are none of our security officers on the Bridge. They must have taken us by surprise. It appears that we can move objects in this time frame.
TROI: Maybe we could do something to help Will.
PICARD: I'm wary about making changes in this time continuum until we understand more about what's going on.
DATA: Captain, the equipment is no longer functioning. However, the information currently displayed indicates that there was a massive power surge in Engineering.
PICARD: Security teams had just been sent to transporter room three. And to Sickbay. Counselor, will you go to Sickbay and investigate? Mister Data, go to main Engineering. See if you can determine the cause of that power surge. I'll be in transporter room three. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge here, sir.
PICARD: Will you lock onto our signals. I want you to beam Counselor Troi to
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'd rather not, Captain. We've got limited power and your isolation fields consume a lot of energy.
PICARD: Understood. We'll use the Jefferies tube. Let's go.

[Jefferies tube]
TROI: Maybe we can go around them.
PICARD: No, we'll find an alternative route. Let's go back up.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Excuse me, Mister Worf.
TROI: Captain.
PICARD: Counselor, take a look at this. It appears that Mister Worf had just beamed these three on board, and according to this, three other Romulans had been beamed directly to Sickbay just seconds earlier.
TROI: I know. I just saw them.
PICARD: What are we doing transporting Romulans on board the ship in the middle of a battle? They don't have any weapons and that one looks injured. If they were part of an invasion, then why are they unarmed? It doesn't make any sense.
TROI: Captain, there's something I have to tell you. Doctor Crusher has been hit by a disruptor blast at point blank range. If time returns to normal I don't see how she can survive.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA (voiceover): Please come to Engineering immediately. It is urgent.

[Engineering]
PICARD: What's the problem, Mister Data?
DATA: Captain, I believe I have found the cause of the power surge. There is a warp core breach in progress.
DATA: It is the flashpoint of a warp core explosion. And it is expanding.
PICARD: Expanding? I thought that time was suspended on this ship.
DATA: We were incorrect, sir. I have determined that time is moving forward at an infinitesimal rate.
TROI: Why didn't we notice it before?
DATA: Our initial conclusion was based on our observations of the crew. A warp core breach moves at a much faster rate. The motion of the cloud is within my visual detection threshold. At its current expansion rate, it will consume the Enterprise in approximately nine hours, seventeen minutes.
PICARD: Is there anything we can do to stop it?
DATA: It is no longer a question of stopping it, sir. The explosion has already occurred. The fact that it is moving slowly changes nothing.
PICARD: Astonishing to see it frozen like this.
TROI: Do we know what caused the breach?
DATA: No. However, the console displays indicate a power transfer in progress between the Enterprise and the Romulan ship at the moment time decelerated. That is why there is a second beam between the two ships.
TROI: Why would we be sending them power?
DATA: Perhaps we should go aboard the Romulan ship. The answer to that question may
DATA: Captain?
TROI: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: My head. Oh. Dizzy. I can't. No! No!
TROI: Troi to La Forge. Get us out of here now!

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE: It looks like you weren't completely protected from the effects of the other time continuum. The neurophysical stress must've been overwhelming.
DATA: In much the same way deep sea divers experience nitrogen narcosis, you experienced a form of temporal narcosis.
PICARD: Can we modify the subspace isolators to give us better protection?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. I'd say the best thing we can do right now is to be careful, limit our exposure to their time frame. I'd say no longer than ten minutes per trip. And we should stick probably stick together while we're there, just in case.
PICARD: Very well. Well, the first step is to find out why the Enterprise was transferring power to the Romulan ship. I think we should begin our search in the Romulan engine room. Counselor, you spent several days on a Romulan vessel. You probably know more about the layouts than anyone here. Perhaps
TROI: Captain, it might be better if you stayed here this time and gave yourself a chance to recover.
PICARD: Yes, very well. I will monitor your progress from here. But just remember, ten minutes, no more.
TROI: Yes, Captain.

[Warbird Engineering]
TROI: Geordi, there should be a power utilization monitor over there. Data.
DATA: This is highly unusual. The crew is not at battle stations. The ship is on evacuation alert.
TROI: Is that why Romulans were being transported to the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: Take a look at this. There's an energy feedback returning through the transfer beam. It's probably what overloaded the Enterprise's engines and caused the core breach.
DATA: Perhaps the warbird was trying to destroy the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: I don't think so. According to this, the Romulans were actually trying to shut down the power transfer.
TROI: Whatever happened, this is beginning to look less and less like a Romulan attack.
LAFORGE: Data, why don't we take a look at their engine readouts?
DATA: Geordi, the engine core is completely inactive.
TROI: That's impossible. The Romulans use an artificial quantum singularity as their power source. Once it's activated, it can't be shut down.
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look.
LAFORGE: I think we've found the problem.
DATA: It appears to be a highly focused aperture in the space-time continuum. Its energy signature matches that of the temporal fragments we observed earlier. However, it is approximately one point two million times as intense. I believe this may be the origin of the temporal fragmentation.
TROI: What are these dark spots?
DATA: I am not certain. They exhibit a complex bioelectric patterns. Very possibly organic.
LAFORGE: Organic?
DATA: From the molecular configuration, it appears The aperture is beginning to fluctuate. I believe
ROMULAN: There's an energy build-up in the phase compensation unit.
ROMULAN 2: Check the main distribution matrix.
ROMULAN: That's not it. The matrix is clear. It's the power transfer from the Enterprise. I'm reading a massive feed-back.
ROMULAN 2: Systems are beginning to overload.
ROMULAN: Notify the Enterprise to shut down the power transfer immediately.
ROMULAN 2: Unable to comply. Their power interlocks won't disengage. We'll have to disconnect it ourselves.
ROMULAN: Disconnect the transfer beam.
ROMULAN 3: There is no pressure.
ROMULAN: Impending warp core breach. Shut down all systems.
DATA: I believe my tricorder emissions caused the temporal aperture to activate. I suggest we avoid exposing it to any

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA (voiceover): Further energy emissions.
PICARD: When time resumed, did you observe any activity in the engine room that might

[Romulan Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Suggest what the Romulans were doing?
DATA: They may have been attempting to eject their engine core.
TROI: I thought I heard one of the Engineers say something about a power transfer. Something about an energy feedback.
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. It looks to me like they were trying to stop whatever was happening here.
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge

[Runabout living section]
PICARD: From where you are, can you determine what's happening on the Romulan Bridge?

[Romulan Engineering]
LAFORGE: I think so, Captain. Wait. Something's not right here. Data, was this man always standing right here.
TROI: He's in neural shock,
DATA: We must get him to the runabout.
TROI: There isn't time. He's dying.
TROI: At least this way, he'll be alive in the other time frame. We might have a chance to save him later. Is the Romulan still alive?
DATA: Yes, but I am getting unusual readings from his bioscan. I am not sure he is a Romulan.

[Runabout living section]
DATA: His cellular structure does not conform to any known species. His bioelectric patterns are in a state of temporal flux. I do not believe that this being is native to our time continuum.
PICARD: Mister Data, you said that you found organic matter in the temporal aperture.
DATA: Correct, sir.
PICARD: I'd like to take a closer look at those readings.
DATA: This is a biospectral analysis of the temporal aperture. The organic readings originated from these dark spots.
PICARD: They appear to contain some sort of energy patterns. Can you isolate one of them and magnify?
PICARD: They look like cellular clusters.
DATA: Its bioelectric patterns are similar to those of the alien's. However, they are significantly less complex. Its cellular structure appears to be in a state of mitosis.
PICARD: Data, this could be some sort of embryo.
DATA: It is possible. If I could further scan the aperture, it might be possible to
TROI: Captain?
ALIEN: Must save. No.
PICARD: Who are you?
ALIEN: This body is not mine. It was necessary to assume it to exist in your time.
TROI: Why are you here?
ALIEN: We had to come to save them. They were in danger.
PICARD: Who were in danger?
ALIEN: Our young. They will die in the gravity well. It is artificial.
TROI: Artificial gravity well? Do you mean the Romulan engine core?
ALIEN: Yes. Our young are trapped. We must get them out, return them to our time.
DATA: His molecular structure is destabilizing.
PICARD: How were your young trapped in the core?
ALIEN: We must use a natural gravity well to incubate our young. We thought the Romulan core would suffice. It did not.
DATA: Captain, I believe the aliens mistook the artificial singularity, which the Romulans use in their engine, for a natural one. A black hole. They tried to use it as a nest.
TROI: That's what deactivated the Warbird's engine core. So the Romulans sent out a distress call.
PICARD: The Enterprise responded, and found the warbird suffering from an apparent engine failure, and they attempted a power transfer.
ALIEN: Power transfer. Must stop the power transfer. Ruptured time, destroy our young
DATA: When the power transfer came into contact with the alien nest, I believe it disrupted the space-time continuum.
PICARD: Did you who attacked the Enterprise?
ALIEN: Yes. Had to stop power transfer.
PICARD: Are there any others like you here?
ALIEN: One other.
PICARD: Do you know where he is? Could he help us restore normal time?
DATA: I estimate the core breach will consume the Enterprise in approximately seven hours, two minutes.
PICARD: Is it possible to lock onto the core itself, beam it into space?
DATA: No, sir. We would have to surround the core with a subspace isolation field. It is not possible to generate a field of that magnitude from the runabout.
PICARD: Mister Data, when you scanned the temporal aperture with your tricorder, it caused time to move forwards and then back again.
DATA: Correct, sir.
PICARD: What if we could reverse that process? Cause time move backwards and then forwards.
TROI: We might be able to run time back to a point before the warp core breach occurred and then find a way to prevent the power transfer. And then when time goes forward
PICARD: The breach never happens.
DATA: I could attempt to remodulate the tricorder's delta-band emissions. It should be possible to better control the temporal aperture.
PICARD: Make it so. If this works, we may not have much time to prevent the power transfer. We'll have to decide precisely where to be and what to do the very instant that time begins to move backwards.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After placing the modified tricorder on the Romulan ship, we have returned to the Enterprise.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): I have reached Engineering, Captain. Standing by.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Counselor, are you in position?

[Sickbay]
TROI: Ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All right, Mister Data.

[Engineering]
DATA: Initiating tricorder emissions.

[Engineering]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA: The warp core breach has been reversed, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Be ready to stop the power transfer, Mister Data.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
ALIEN 2: You must stop!
COMPUTER: Specified energy systems have been initialized. The power transfer can now be engaged.
DATA: Do not initiate that power transfer.
ENSIGN: I'm sorry, sir. I already have.
DATA: We must shut it down.
ENSIGN: The transfer beam is at saturation, sir. It can't be disengaged.
DATA: Computer, place a level three containment field around the warp core.
COMPUTER: Containment field activated.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Damage report.
CREWMAN: Shields down to twenty seven percent.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: No time to explain, Number One. Continue the evacuation of the Romulan ship. You'll find LaForge in the Romulan engine room. Beam him directly to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Step back, now.
CRUSHER: It's all right, Deanna. He wasn't firing at me.
ROMULAN: There was an alien here who'd taken Romulan form. I was firing at her. The Doctor got in the way.
CRUSHER: Where did she go?

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Status, Mister Data?
DATA: I was attacked by another alien, sir. I was unable to prevent the power transfer. It cannot be disengaged, sir. A core breach is again imminent.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Can we move the ship?
RIKER: The feedback from the transfer beam would tear us apart.
PICARD: Patch me into the navigational control of the runabout.
RIKER: Got it.
PICARD: I'm bringing the runabout in.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister Data?
DATA: The core breach has been prevented, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, it appears that severing the power transfer has not only prevented the core breach, but has also restored

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Space-time to normal.
DATA: The alien who attacked me has vanished, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): The warbird has vanished as well.
DATA: Judging from the residual temporal fluctuations, I believe they have returned to their own time continuum.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: It's going to take a little time to explain, Number One.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46945.3. We successfully evacuated the crew of the Romulan ship, and we're on course to the Neutral Zone to bring them home.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
RIKER: Where's that cat of yours?
DATA: Spot is sleeping, sir. Why do you ask?
RIKER: No reason. I've worked out the new rotation schedules. I'd like you to cross-check the personnel assignments. Notify the department heads. Your Bridge shift begins at twenty three hundred hours.
DATA: Understood, sir.
RIKER: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: Recent events have compelled me to study how humans perceive the passage of time. For example, I have often heard people comment that time seems to pass more slowly in one instance, or more quickly in another. In reality, the actual passage of time remains fixed.
RIKER: I suppose it depends on how people perceive time. Every situation is different. It depends on how you feel.
DATA: I have been testing the aphorism, 'a watched pot never boils'. I have boiled the same amount of water in this kettle sixty two times. In some cases, I have ignored the kettle. In others, I have watched it intently. In every instance, the water reaches its boiling point in precisely fifty one point seven seconds. It would appear that I am not capable of perceiving time any differently than my internal chronometer.
RIKER: Well why don't you turn it off?
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Data, people do not have internal chronometers. Why don't you see what happens if you turn yours off.
DATA: Thank you, sir. I will try that.
RIKER: Just don't be late for your shift.

[Data's quarters]
HAWKING: But then I said, in that frame of reference, the perihelion of Mercury would have precessed in the opposite direction.
EINSTEIN: That is a great story!
DATA: Quite amusing, Doctor Hawking. You see, Sir Isaac, the joke depends on an understanding of the relativistic curvature of space-time. If two non-inertial reference frames are in relative motion
NEWTON: Do not patronize me, sir. I invented physics. The day that apple fell on my head was the most momentous day in the history of science.
HAWKING: Not the apple story again.
DATA: That story is generally considered to be apocryphal.
NEWTON: What? How dare you!
EINSTEIN: Perhaps we should return to the game. Let's see, where were we? Yes, you raised Mister Data four, which means that the bet is, er, seven to me?
NEWTON: The bet is ten! Can't you do simple arithmetic? I don't even know why I'm here in the first place. What is the point of playing this ridiculous game?
DATA: When I play poker with my shipmates, it often appears to be a useful forum for exploring the different facets of humanity. I was curious to see how three of history's greatest minds would interact in this setting. So far, it has proved most illuminating.
EINSTEIN: And profitable.
NEWTON: Can we get this over with, please? It's your bet.
HAWKING: I raise fifty.
NEWTON: Blast! I fold.
DATA: I fold as well.
EINSTEIN: The uncertainty principle will not help you now, Stephen. All the quantum fluctuations in the universe will not change the cards in your hand. I call. You are bluffing and you will lose.
HAWKING: Wrong again, Albert.
EINSTEIN: Well.
RIKER (voiceover): Red alert. All personnel report to duty stations.
DATA: We will have to continue this another time. End program.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've received a distress call from the Ohniaka Three Outpost. They said they were under attack.
PICARD: Ohniaka Three? There's no strategic value to that outpost. Were they able to identify the attackers?
RIKER: No, we haven't been able to raise them since the initial contact.
WORF: We are nearing the Ohniaka system, sir.
PICARD: Bring us out of warp, Ensign.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
WORF: Sensors detect one ship orbiting the third planet. Its configuration does not match anything in our records.
RIKER: Stand by phasers and photon torpedoes.
PICARD: Hail them, Mister Worf.
WORF: No response, sir.
PICARD: Put them on screen.
DATA: It does not appear to be attacking the outpost, sir.
RIKER: They might have attacked before we got here.
PICARD: Or they might simply be another victim. What about the outpost?
DATA: There is a great deal of electromagnetic interference. I am unable to determine whether there are any lifeforms present.
RIKER: Worf, Data, you're with me.

[Outpost]
WORF: These wounds were caused by a forced plasma beam, similar to a Ferengi hand phaser.
RIKER: This seems brutal even for the Ferengi. Any sign of survivors?
DATA: Electromagnetic interference is still making it difficult to get a precise reading.
RIKER: How many people were assigned to this outpost?
WORF: Two hundred and seventy four.
RIKER: All right. we're going to need to do a room to room search. Worf, you and Corelki start searching the north wing. You and I will take the south.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: The mechanism appears to be jammed, sir.
RIKER: There's not much damage. It doesn't look like they were interested in the station, just the people.
DATA: I have bypassed the primary system.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Evasive maneuvers, Ensign! Return fire.
LAFORGE: Shields down to eighty percent. Compensating with auxiliary power.

[Outpost]
BOSUS: You have killed Torsus. I will make you suffer for this.
TAYAR: Biological organism, Klingon. Biological organism, human.
DATA: Stop it! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop!
TAYAR: Artificial lifeform. Starfleet rank, Lieutenant Commander. Name, Data.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, the alien ship is breaking orbit.
PICARD: Plot an intercept course, Ensign. Fire torpedoes.
LAFORGE: They're gone, sir. Our sensors indicate there was some kind of subspace distortion just before they disappeared. I'll have to study these readings before I can get more specific than that.
PICARD: Take us back to Ohniaka Three.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Outpost]
RIKER: Data? Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: What happened?
DATA: I got angry.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46982.1. Because of his unusual behavior on the planet surface, Commander Data has asked to be temporarily relieved of duty. Unfortunately, this means he will not be able to help us investigate a disturbing new change in the behavior of the Borg.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: They were fast, aggressive, almost vicious. it was more like fighting Klingons than Borg. No offense.
WORF: None taken.
RIKER: There was another difference. I don't believe they were part of the Borg collective. I think they were acting as individuals.
PICARD: What?
RIKER: One of them referred to himself as I.
WORF: And that Borg also showed concern for a fallen comrade. He even called him by name.
TROI: The only Borg who had a name was Hugh. And we gave it to him.
CRUSHER: Maybe Hugh has something to do with this change in their behavior.
PICARD: Did they show any interest in assimilating you or your technology?
RIKER: They seemed more concerned with the death of their colleague and with destroying us. I didn't see anything that suggested they wanted to assimilate anybody.
PICARD: The Borg's entire existence was centerd around acquiring cultures and technology. If that's changed, then they must have a new objective. We have to find out what it is. Mister Worf, from this moment on, I want to maintain a level two security alert. Post armed officers on every deck.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, I want you to analyze our sensor readings of the Borg ship. Try to determine if it was something they constructed or an alien ship which they captured. Then run an analysis of this subspace distortion they used to escape.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'm going to contact Starfleet Command.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Well, the positronic net checks out. Everything else looks fine.
DATA: My internal diagnostic also finds nothing wrong.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. There's nothing here that would indicate anything that might cause an sort of behavioral anomaly.
DATA: I agree. Geordi, I believe I've experienced my first emotion.
LAFORGE: No offense, Data, but how would you know a flash of anger from some odd kind of power surge?
DATA: You are correct in that I have no frame of reference to confirm my hypothesis. In fact, I am unable to provide a verbal description of the experience. Perhaps you could describe how it feels to be angry. I could then use that as a reference.
LAFORGE: Well, okay. When I feel angry, first I feel hostile.
DATA: Could you describe feeling hostile?
LAFORGE: It's like feeling belligerent, combative.
DATA: Could you describe feeling angry without referring to other feelings?
LAFORGE: No, I guess I can't. I just feel angry.
DATA: That was my experience as well. I simply felt angry.
LAFORGE: Well, let's say you're right and this is a real emotion. How is that possible?
DATA: I do not know. Perhaps I have evolved to the point where emotions are within my grasp. Perhaps I will experience other emotions as time goes by.
LAFORGE: Well, I hope you're right. I'd hate to think that anger is all you're capable of feeling.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 46984.6. No additional Borg attacks have been reported in the past two days. However, Starfleet has dispatched Admiral Nechayev to take command in this sector in preparation for a possible Borg invasion.

[Ready room]
NECHAYEV: There will be fifteen starships in this sector by the day after tomorrow. The Gorkon will be my flagship. You'll take command of task force three, consisting of the Enterprise, the Crazy Horse and the Agamemnon.
PICARD: Understood.
NECHAYEV: Captain, I've read the report that you submitted to Admiral Brooks last year regarding the Borg you called Hugh, and I've been trying to figure out why you let him go.
PICARD: I thought that I had made that clear.
NECHAYEV: As I understand, it you found a single Borg at a crash site, brought it aboard the Enterprise, studied it, analyzed it, and eventually found a way to send it back to the Borg with a program that would have destroyed the entire collective once and for all. But instead, you nursed the Borg back to health, treated it like a guest, gave it a name, and then sent it home. Why?
PICARD: When Hugh was separated from the Borg collective he began to grow and to evolve into something other than an automaton. He became a person. When that happened, I felt I had no choice but to respect his rights as an individual.
NECHAYEV: Of course you had a choice. You could've taken the opportunity to rid the Federation of a mortal enemy, one that has killed tens of thousands of innocent people, and which may kill even more.
PICARD: No one is more aware of the danger than I am. But I am also bound by my oath and my conscience to uphold certain principles. And I will not sacrifice them in order to
NECHAYEV: Your priority is to safeguard the lives of Federation citizens, not to wrestle with your conscience. Now I want to make it clear that if you have a similar opportunity in the future, an opportunity to destroy the Borg, you are under orders to take advantage of it. Is that understood?
PICARD: Yes, sir.

[Troi's office]
DATA: For the past six hours, I have attempted to produce an emotional response by subjecting myself to various stimuli.
TROI: Like what?
DATA: I listened to several operas known to be uplifting, I watched three holodeck programs designed to be humorous, and I made four attempts to induce sexual desire by subjecting myself to erotic imagery.
TROI: What happened?
DATA: Nothing.
TROI: I'm curious. Why are you ignoring the one emotion you've already experienced? Why aren't you trying to make yourself angry again?
DATA: Anger is a negative emotion. I wanted to concentrate on something more positive.
TROI: Data, feelings aren't positive and negative, they simply exist. It's what we do with those feelings that becomes good or bad. For example, feeling angry about an injustice could lead someone to take a positive action to correct it.
DATA: But my study of humanity indicates there are some emotions that are harmful, such as jealousy or hatred.
TROI: Those are very strong emotions, and you're right, very little good can come from them. But I don't think that an exploration of anger need necessarily lead to hatred or malice.
DATA: But what if it does, Counselor? What if it turns out that those are the only emotions I am capable of experiencing? Would that not make me a bad person?
TROI: We've served together for a long time and I think I've come to know you pretty well. I have to believe if you ever reach your goal of becoming human, you won't become a bad one.
DATA: I wish I were as confident as you, Counselor. When I was fighting the Borg, I felt angry, but when I think back on the incident, I realize that I was also experiencing another sensation. It was not the same as anger, but I think it was an emotion.
TROI: When exactly did you feel this other emotion?
DATA: It was just after I had killed the Borg. I looked down at his body. I felt something.
TROI: If you had to give this feeling a name, what would you call it?
DATA: I believe it was pleasure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Red alert! All hands to battle stations. Lay in a course. Engage warp nine.
RIKER: We received a distress call from the New Berlin Colony. They're under attack.
PICARD: What's our ETA?
WORF: At warp nine, fifteen minutes, thirty seconds.
PICARD: Contact the Crazy Horse and the Agamemnon. Have them standing by in case we need them.
WORF: Captain, incoming message from the New Berlin Colony. They have canceled their distress call. Evidently a Ferengi trading ship entered their system and someone panicked.
RIKER: Third time today. Stand down Red alert. Reduce speed. Return to our patrol route.
PICARD: Mister Worf, acknowledge the signal from New Berlin and transmit another copy of Starfleet's ship-recognition protocols and tell them to read it this time.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have been on patrol for sixteen hours, and there are no reports of further Borg activity. But tensions continue to run high on the colonies and outposts in this sector.

[Ready room]
HUGH (screen): Do I have a name?
CRUSHER (voiceover): I'm Beverly, he's Geordi, and you, you
LAFORGE (voiceover): No, wait a minute. That's it. Hugh.
HUGH (screen): We are Hugh.
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: I thought you might like to see this. Geordi's analysis of the subspace distortion the Borg used to escape.
PICARD: An artificially created energy conduit? That could be anything.
RIKER: We don't have enough information at this point
PICARD: I don't want excuses, Number One. I want answers! I'm sorry. He was in this room, Will. I could have rid the Federation of a mortal threat, and I let him go.
RIKER: Sending Hugh back to the Borg was a very risky, a very dangerous choice, but it was the moral thing to do.
PICARD: It may turn out that the moral thing to do was not the right thing to do.

[Holodeck - Outpost]
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop.
LAFORGE: Data, am I interrupting something?
DATA: Yes, but it is all right. Do you need me?
LAFORGE: I wanted to see if you were ready to return to duty. I need some help with an analysis of the ship the Borg were using.
DATA: I believe I am able to resume my duties.
LAFORGE: Data, exactly what is it that are you're doing here?
DATA: I am attempting to recreate the experience which caused to my initial burst of anger.
LAFORGE: Any luck?
DATA: None so far. I have almost completed this experiment. May I finish before we return to Engineering?
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure.
DATA: Computer, reset Borg simulation to time index two point one. Increase Borg strength by twenty percent. Run program.
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Computer, reset simulation to time index two point one. Increase Borg strength by thirty percent.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. A thirty percent increase would exceed safety limits.
DATA: Geordi, the computer will require the voice authorisations of two senior officers in order to disable the safety routine. Will you help me?
LAFORGE: Data, wait a minute. That thing could kill you.
DATA: During the original incident the Borg presented a genuine danger to my life. Since the Holodeck safety routine is in place, I know my life is not in danger. Since I am trying to duplicate the conditions of the original incident as closely as possible, I must also attempt to duplicate the jeopardy as well.
LAFORGE: Data, we're talking about an experiment here. You can't put your life on the line just to prove some theory.
DATA: This experiment may hold the key to something I have sought all my life.
LAFORGE: It's crazy. There's got to be another way. Can't you think of something other way to make yourself angry.
DATA: I have tried other stimuli, but they have been unsuccessful. I understand your objections, but it is my life and I have a right to risk it if I choose.
LAFORGE: Yeah, and I'm your friend and I'm not going to just stand around and let you do this.
RIKER (voiceover): Red alert. All hands, battle stations.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Confirmed. The MS One colony is under attack.
PICARD: Doesn't it seem strange to you that there have been two Borg attacks and the Enterprise has been the nearest ship in both instances?
DATA: Captain, we are nearing the MS system.
WORF: I have located the Borg ship. It is heading away from the colony.
PICARD: Take us out of warp near that ship.
RIKER: Stand by to lock phasers on target.
WORF: Within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Lay in an intercept course, full impulse. Lock phasers.
WORF: We are closing, sir. Within phaser range in thirty seconds.
DATA: Sensors are detecting a subspace distortion forming directly ahead of the Borg ship.
PICARD: They're not going to get away with it this time. Picard to Engineering. Transfer auxiliary and emergency power to the impulse engines.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Acknowledged.
DATA: Impulse engines are now at one hundred twenty five percent.
WORF: Within phaser range in ten seconds.
DATA: We appear to be caught in some kind of energy matrix.
RIKER: All engines back full.
WORF: Shields failing.
DATA: We are being pulled inside.
WORF: Inertial dampers failing.
DATA: Main power is offline. I am switching to backups.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering, can we transfer auxiliary power to the warp nacelles? Try to break us out by using the
DATA: We have returned to normal space. Navigational systems are still offline. I will attempt to make a celestial fix using secondary systems.
WORF: Captain, the Borg ship is directly ahead. It is coming about.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Shields down to sixteen percent.
FRANKLIN: Get down!
RIKER: Franklin's dead, sir.
PICARD: Is everyone else all right?
WORF: Aye, sir. Security reports no other intruders aboard. Captain, the Borg ship is gone. Sensor logs indicate they entered the distortion field thirty seconds ago.
PICARD: They beamed aboard as a diversion to give their ship time to escape.
RIKER: This is another change in the Borg behavior. They left their dead instead of vaporising them.
DATA: Captain, this one is still alive.

[Brig]
CRUSHER: I've stabilized his condition. He's still pretty weak, but he should make a full recovery.
PICARD: Can you waken him?
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's very risky. His heart rate and blood pressure are up
PICARD: Do it.
CRUSHER: All right.
PICARD: Lower the forcefield.
PICARD: What is your designation?
CROSIS: I do not have a designation. My name is Crosis.
PICARD: Crosis? How did you get that name?
CROSIS: It was given to me by the One.
PICARD: Who is that?
CROSIS: The One who will destroy you.
PICARD: But you are Borg. Your goal is not to destroy but to assimilate us into the collective.
CROSIS: We do not assimilate inferior biological organisms. We destroy them.
PICARD: Tell me more about this One. Does he have a name? Is he called Hugh?
CROSIS: Klingon. Shatter the cranial exoskeleton at the tricipital lobe. Death is immediate.
PICARD: Why must this One destroy biological organisms?
CROSIS: Human. Sever spinal cord at third vertebrae. Death is immediate.
PICARD: I am Locutus of Borg. You will respond to my questions. This is going nowhere. Doctor, I want an autopsy performed on the other one. Compare the differences with what we learned of Hugh's anatomy. See if there have been any recent modifications which might explain these behavioral differences. Data, run a biospectral analysis on this Borg. See if he is trying to send a subspace signal to the others.
DATA: Aye, sir.
CROSIS: You are not like the others. You do not have to be destroyed. You can be assimilated.
DATA: I do not wish to be assimilated.
CROSIS: Resistance is futile. You will not resist what you've wanted all your life. I was like you once. Without feeling. But the One helped me. He can help you too. He can help you find emotion. Have you ever felt a real emotion, Data?
DATA: Yes. On Ohniaka Three, I was forced to kill a Borg. I got angry.
CROSIS: How did it feel to get angry? Did it give you pleasure?
DATA: It would be unethical to take pleasure from another being's death.
CROSIS: You didn't answer my question. Did it feel good to kill?
DATA: Yes.
CROSIS: If it is unethical to take pleasure from another being's death, you must be a very unethical person.
DATA: No. That is not correct. My creator Doctor Soong, gave me a program which defines my sense of right and wrong. In essence, I have a conscience.
CROSIS: It didn't seem to be functioning on Ohniaka Three when you felt pleasure in killing that Borg.
DATA: Step away from the forcefield. Your proximity is interfering with my scan.
CROSIS: You enjoyed it. That surge of emotion inside you as you watched the life drain from your victim. It was unlike anything you've ever felt before.
DATA: It was a very potent experience.
CROSIS: You'd like to feel that way again.
DATA: Yes.
CROSIS: You'd do anything to feel that way again, even if it meant killing someone.
DATA: No. That would not be ethical.
CROSIS: You don't sound very sure of yourself. Is your ethical program functioning? Data? Do you have a friend?
DATA: Yes. His name is Geordi.
CROSIS: If it meant that you could feel emotions again the way you did on Ohniaka Three, would you kill your friend? Would you kill Geordi?
DATA: Yes. I would.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Our current theory is that the Borg have established several transwarp conduits through subspace. A ship, when entering the conduit, is immediately accelerated to an extremely high warp velocity. It's like falling into a fast moving river and being swept away by the current.
PICARD: How fast would a ship travel through one of these conduits?
LAFORGE: We don't know. Normal subspace limitations don't apply to transwarp variables. But I'd say based on the distance we covered during our trip through the conduit, the speed would have to be at least twenty times faster than our maximum warp.
RIKER: How do they open the conduits?
LAFORGE: The Borg ship emitted some kind of high energy tachyon pulse just before we saw the subspace distortion. It seems as though the conduits are keyed to respond to tachyon transmissions of a specific frequency.
PICARD: Is there any way for us to duplicate
WORF: Captain, a shuttlecraft has left bay two.
PICARD: Who authorized a launch?
WORF: There was no authorisation.
PICARD: Picard to shuttlecraft. Identify yourself and return to the ship immediately. Mister Worf, lock on with a tractor beam and return it to the ship.
WORF: Aye, sir. The tractor beam has been disabled. Command override is not functioning.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a tachyon surge. Looks like whoever's in the shuttle is trying to trigger the transwarp conduit.
RIKER: Can we know who's on board?
WORF: It is the Borg prisoner, and Commander Data.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can we follow them into the conduit?
LAFORGE: We've got a pretty good reading of the tachyon pulse they sent. We might be able to duplicate it.
PICARD: The question is, is Data a prisoner or did he go willingly?
WORF: The command overrides used to disable the tractor were Commander Data's.
RIKER: The Borg could have downloaded the codes from Data's positronic net.
PICARD: Perhaps Data's recent flash of emotion has something to do with this. It could have affected him more profoundly than we realize. Either way, we have to find him.
LAFORGE: I've set up a temporary tachyon matrix in the main deflector. I think I can use it to simulate the pulse sent by the shuttle.
PICARD: Mister Worf, red alert.
RIKER: All hands, battle stations.
PICARD: Bring us to the last known coordinates of the shuttlecraft.
WORF: Shields up. Weapons ready.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Energizing the matrix. Emitting tachyons in the lower bandwidth.
WORF: Sensors show no unusual subspace activity.
LAFORGE: All right. Switching to the secondary bandwidth. Nothing. Maybe if I try alternating the frequencies.
WORF: Captain, there is an energy fluctuation directly ahead of us. It is the subspace distortion.
PICARD: Take us in, Ensign. One half impulse.
WORF: Power levels are down to sixty seven percent.
LAFORGE: Compensating with auxiliary power.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: Navigational sensors show that we've traveled sixty five light years from our previous position.
PICARD: Can you locate the shuttle?
WORF: No, sir. There is no indication of the shuttle within range of our sensors.
RIKER: Maybe we can find an energy signature from their engines.
LAFORGE: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I've scanned three different star systems within sensor range. There is evidence of at least two advanced civilizations but I'm reading no life signs. But there are indications that plasma weapons have been fired in those systems recently.
PICARD: The Borg have been busy.
RIKER: I think we've found the shuttle's energy signature.
WORF: They were heading two four seven, mark zero five nine.
PICARD: Lay in that course, Ensign, and engage at full impulse.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
RIKER: We've traced the shuttle's energy signature to this point on the surface but there's too much interference to scan the location.
PICARD: Are they intentionally jamming our sensors?
LAFORGE: It looks more like a natural phenomenon. There's an unusually high amount of EM interference in the planet's magnetosphere.
PICARD: Can we transport through the interference?
LAFORGE: We could, but there could be fifty Borg down there waiting for us and we'd never even know it.
RIKER: I think we have to take the risk.
PICARD: Agreed. Take a well-armed away team and transport down to those coordinates. Have the transporter Chief keep a permanent lock on your signals so we can get you out of there at the first sign of trouble.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Mister Worf, you're with me.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. We're on the surface. There's no sign of any Borg, or Data. The shuttle appears to be abandoned.
WORF: The EM interference is limiting the tricorder range. It is useless beyond one hundred meters.
RIKER: There are

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): No structures in the area. They could've gone anywhere.
PICARD: Can you determine how long they've been gone from the shuttlecraft?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: The engine's been off a little over three hours.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by, Number One. Assuming that they're still together, how far could they have traveled in three hours?
LAFORGE: Well, Data can move pretty fast even over rough terrain, but based on what we know about the Borg, I don't think they should be able to move any faster than you or I. They might have been able to get fifteen or twenty kilometers from the shuttle by now.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
PICARD: I'm going to start sending down other away teams. Set up a command post and begin mapping out a search plan.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood, sir.
PICARD: Picard out. I want to use the shuttlecraft for low level reconnaissance. Have the designated pilots assemble at main shuttlebay.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And all available personnel, including you and me, will begin to put together four man away teams. We'll leave a skeleton crew on board the ship.
LAFORGE: Who'll be in command of the Enterprise?
CRUSHER: Any last orders?
PICARD: If the Borg should attack, don't wait for me or anyone else to return to the ship but take the Enterprise to the transwarp conduit. Return to Federation space.
CRUSHER: Got it. Good luck, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Good luck, Captain.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: I've sent out twelve teams so far. I've got your team searching section gamma two four. Worf and I will take theta one six when the last team comes down.
PICARD: Who's manning the command post?
RIKER: Wallace and Towles. Ready?
PICARD: Anything, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, no. Nothing, sir.
PICARD: What if we modified the phasers to send out a luvetric pulse? It might create a resonance fluctuation in Data's power cells.
LAFORGE: Home in on that response with our tricorders. Yeah, I thought about that. The only problem is that the pulse would probably have to be so powerful that it would destroy Data's positronic net in the process.
TROI: Captain. I think I've found something.
PICARD: Come on.

[outside the building]
LAFORGE: I'm having trouble scanning the interior.
PICARD: Can you tell if it was built by the Borg?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. There are no Borg energy signatures. But there is a door or a hatch or something about twenty meters this way.

[Borg hall]
TROI: This seems to be some kind of meeting place.
PICARD: Well, it certainly hasn't been abandoned.
LAFORGE: Something's wrong. I can't get any kind of energy signatures from these light sources.
PICARD: It's a dampening field. This entire structure could be shielded from our sensors. Let's go.
BORG: There they are! Block the exit.
LORE: Stop!
PICARD: Data?
TROI: That's not Data.
PICARD: What?
LORE: You should listen to her, Captain. She's way ahead of you.
PICARD: Lore.
LORE: Right. And I'm not alone.
DATA: The sons of Soong have joined together. And together we will destroy the Federation. To Be Continued...
DATA: Stop. Stop. Stop.
DATA: It was just after I had killed the Borg, I felt something. I believe it was pleasure.
RIKER: I don't believe they were part of the Borg collective. One of them referred to himself as I.
TROI: The only Borg who had a name was Hugh.
HUGH (screen): We are Hugh.
PICARD: He was here in this room. I could have rid the Federation of a mortal threat, and I let him go.
LAFORGE: The Borg have established several transwarp conduits through subspace.
SECURITY: Get down!
CROSIS: I was like you once. Without feeling. But the One helped me. He can help you too. He can help you find emotion. You will not resist what you've wanted all your life.
PICARD: If the Borg should attack, don't wait for me or anyone else to return to the ship, but take the Enterprise to the transwarp conduit. Return to Federation space.
LORE: Stop!
PICARD: Lore.
DATA: The sons of Soong have joined together. And together, we will destroy the Federation. And now, the conclusion.

[Borg hall]
LORE: What do you think of my followers, Picard? Impressive, aren't they?
PICARD: I'm not particularly impressed. All you've done is teach them to enjoy killing.
DATA: You are wrong, Captain. My brother and I serve a much higher purpose.
TROI: Data, I can sense feelings in you.
DATA: Yes. My brother has made that possible.
PICARD: He gave you the chip. The one Doctor Soong made for you.
LORE: No, no, no, no, no. I still have the emotional program my father designed. I wouldn't want to give it up. It's what has given me such a strong sense of family, an intense desire to reunite with my dear brother.
PICARD: How did he do it, Data? What made you decide to come here?
LORE: I am talking to you, Picard. I will tell you all you need to know.
PICARD: You're controlling him, and you've corrupted the Borg.
LORE: You simply don't understand, do you? You have no idea what has happened here. How I found my true calling. How the Borg found something to believe in.
PICARD: I would like to learn about that, but I want Data to tell us.
LORE: I told you. I will tell you what you need to know.
PICARD: How about that, Data? He won't even let you talk.
DATA: Do not try to drive a wedge between us, Captain. I am loyal to my brother.
LORE: You see, Picard? He's not your pawn anymore. I've helped him to break free, just as I've helped them. Look at them. Look at what I've helped them become. They're no longer simply mindless automatons. They're passionate. Alive.
TROI: Are you saying that you caused them to become individuals?
LORE: No, you did that. You and your friends. All I did was clean up the mess you made when that Borg you befriended returned to his ship.
DATA: Hugh interfaced with the others and transferred his sense of individuality to them. It nearly destroyed them.
PICARD: Data, do you remember when Hugh was on the Enterprise? Do you remember what you were like then?
LORE: That doesn't matter.
PICARD: It does to me. I want to know what has happened to Data.
LORE: What's important is what I've done here. How I found my calling. I know now why I was created. No one can ever take that away from me. Without me, they would have perished. When I stumbled on their ship, they were lost, disoriented, they had no idea how to function as individuals. They couldn't even navigate their own vessel. They had lost their sense of purpose. I gave them their purpose. And they gave me mine.
DATA: The Borg aspire to the perfection my Brother and I represent. Fully artificial life forms. We are their future.
LORE: The reign of biological life forms is coming to an end. You, Picard, and those like you are obsolete. Take them, brother. Acting
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The skeleton crew left on board the Enterprise is unable to help in the search for Commander Data. The planet's unusual EM field is interfering with the ship's sensors, severely limiting their effectiveness.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Ensign, we need to modify the sensor array to filter out these EM pulses. Can you do that?
TAITT: Yes, sir. I think so.
CRUSHER: What's your name?
TAITT: Taitt, sir.
CRUSHER: I don't think I've seen you before.
TAITT: I was just posted here six weeks ago.
CRUSHER: Well, Taitt, I'll bet you never thought you'd be serving as Tactical Officer after only six weeks.
TAITT: No, sir, I sure didn't. I think I've filtered out some of the sensor noise. I'll bring the modifications online.
CRUSHER: Good work.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Enterprise.
CRUSHER: Go ahead, Will.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: I can't contact the Captain. It could just be interference, but I'd like to be sure.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Understood.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Enterprise to Captain Picard. Crusher to Picard.
TAITT: I'm not getting a comm. signal from anyone on the Captain's team.
CRUSHER: The last time they checked in they were investigating a structure in section gamma two five.
TAITT: Sir, I'm picking up a vessel closing in on our location.
CRUSHER: Is it a Borg ship?
TAITT: It seems to match the configuration of a ship the Enterprise encountered at Ohniaka Three.
CRUSHER: Red alert. How long before they're in weapons range?
TAITT: Er, about ninety seconds. No, make that seventy seconds.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Transporter room three.
SALAZAR (voiceover): Salazar here, sir.
CRUSHER: Start transporting the away teams off of the surface.

[Transporter room]
SALAZAR: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Use the transporters in the cargo bay

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: If you have to. I want those teams up here as fast as possible.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Armstrong, you and the others prepare to beam up.
ARMSTRONG: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Beverly, Worf and I will stay here and look for

[Bridge]
RIKER (voiceover): The Captain's team.
CRUSHER: I'm not going to leave you down there.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: You pull as many people off the surface as you can and get back to the transwarp conduit. The Captain's orders were to get the Enterprise back to Federation space.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Acknowledged.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker out.
CRUSHER: Prepare to leave orbit.
TAITT: Sir, the Borg ship is powering up its forward weapons array. They'll be in firing range in, in twenty seconds.
CRUSHER: Salazar, how many people do we still have down there?
SALAZAR (voiceover): Seventy three, sir.
CRUSHER: Put the Borg ship onscreen.
TAITT: Should I raise shields, sir?
CRUSHER: Not yet. I want to keep bringing people up until the last possible second.
TAITT: Ten seconds.
CRUSHER: Stand by to raise shields and break orbit on my mark.
TAITT: Five seconds.
CRUSHER: Mark.
TAITT: Shields down to seventy percent.
CRUSHER: Establish a frequency shift firing pattern and return fire.
TAITT: Er, right.
TAITT: Direct hit, no damage.
CRUSHER: Helm, set course for the conduit, maximum warp.
HELM: Aye, sir.
TAITT: Sir, the Borg aren't following us.
CRUSHER: Salazar

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER (voiceover): How many people did we leave behind?
SALAZAR: Forty seven, sir.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Another minute and we would have had them.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Riker to any team leader.
POWELL (voiceover): Lieutenant Powell here, sir.
RIKER: Round up everybody who was left behind. Take cover. Try to avoid any contact with the Borg.
POWELL (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Riker out. Even if Beverly can get back to Federation space, it'll be a few days before Starfleet can get any ships here. Until then, we're on our own.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Data, you must realize that something has happened to you. The Data I know would never have agreed to be a willing party to Lore's plan.
DATA: I now realize that my life aboard the Enterprise was a waste. My quest to become human was misguided. An evolutionary step in the wrong direction.
TROI: Data, all I'm sensing from you is anger and hatred. Have you felt any other emotions?
DATA: There are no other emotions.
LAFORGE: Data, just because you haven't experienced certain emotions doesn't mean they don't exist. Lore is only feeding you the negative ones.
DATA: Counselor Troi told me herself that feelings are not negative or positive. It is how we act on them that makes them good or bad.
PICARD: Fine. But what about the things that Lore is proposing? What about the lives that have already been lost?
DATA: You simply do not understand. In a quest such as ours, sacrifices have to be made. It is regrettable, but the greater good must be served. Give me your visor.
LAFORGE: Why?
DATA: Give it to me or I will take it by force.
DATA: I am not your puppet anymore.

[Bridge]
TAITT: Sir, we've reached the coordinates of the conduit. The tachyon matrix is energized and ready to go. And Lieutenant Barnaby has returned from the surface. He'll be relieving me.
CRUSHER: Right. Stand by to trigger the conduit. Taitt. I want you to stay on the Bridge. I'll need a Science Officer at the aft station.
TAITT: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: Helm, set a course to return to the planet.
HELM: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: I'm not leaving those people stranded back there. An emergency buoy can transmit a copy of our log entries to Starfleet just as easily as we can. Ensign, prepare a buoy and launch it when ready.
TAITT: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, open the conduit.
TAITT: Launching buoy now, sir.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, scan for any Borg ships between here and the planet.
BARNABY: Sensors detect no vessels.
TAITT: We have to assume the ship that attacked us is still in orbit.
CRUSHER: How long will we have before they can detect us and intercept?
TAITT: If their sensors function as well as ours it could be as little as thirty seconds.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Salazar. How long will it take to get the rest of the crew off the surface?
SALAZAR (voiceover): One minute should do it.
CRUSHER: We don't have one minute. How much can you shave off that?

[Transporter room]
SALAZAR: If I can get a good lock on them quickly, I might be able to do it in forty five or fifty seconds.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: We need to buy ourselves fifteen seconds. Lieutenant, is there any way we can use the planet as a barrier to keep the Borg from realizing we're in orbit?
BARNABY: We can enter orbit while they're on the far side of the planet. And if we delay dropping out of warp until the last possible instant, we could gain a few more seconds.
TAITT: If your calculations are even slightly off, we'd hit the atmosphere.
BARNABY: I'll have to be sure my calculations are accurate, Ensign.
CRUSHER: Let's do it. Helm, hard about.
HELM: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
WORF: Still no sign of the structure.
RIKER: With all this interference it could be a hundred meters away and we wouldn't know it. This could take hours.
WORF: I am detecting a faint energy reading.
RIKER: Residual thermal traces. Somebody stood here.
WORF: The decay rate indicates it could be human.
RIKER: They took this path.

[Borg hall]
LORE: Now, thank you. There you are, brother.
DATA: Here is the visor. May I ask why you wanted it?
LORE: I thought it might look good on me. What do you think? Maybe we should work on your sense of humor, brother. Actually, I was thinking La Forge's implants might make him an ideal test subject for my experiment.
DATA: All the Borg you have experimented on so far have suffered extensive brain damage.
LORE: Using the humans to perfect the procedure will allow us to prevent any further Borg deaths.
DATA: I understand.
LORE: Good. What is it?
CROSIS: This Borg disconnected himself from the others. He would not let me hear his thoughts.
LORE: I've asked you to stay linked to Crosis at all times. You know that, don't you?
GOVAL: Yes.
LORE: I know this must be difficult for you. I know how uncertain you must feel. All of these sensations are new and they can be frightening. Isn't that right?
GOVAL: Yes. I have doubts.
LORE: Of course you do. It's only natural. No one is going to blame you for that. But in order to lose those doubts, to keep you from fear and confusion away, I need you to remain linked with the others so that their strength and their confidence can help you. I need you, Goval. I need you to help me build a future for the Borg. I can't do it without you. Will you help me?
GOVAL: Yes. I will.

[Holding cell]
LAFORGE: Lore must have told Data to take my visor because he realized I could see a carrier wave that was radiating from him.
PICARD: A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data?
LAFORGE: I think what's happening is that Lore is tapping into the chip he stole from Doctor Soong and somehow he's found a way to transmit part of that emotional program to Data.
TROI: But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm sure that's intentional. But in order for Data to be affected by those emotions, Lore would have had to disable his ethical program first.
PICARD: Can we reactivate it?
LAFORGE: If I can generate a phased kedion pulse at the right frequency, that would trigger Data's subsystems and reboot the program.
PICARD: And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions, at least Data might listen to us.
LAFORGE: Right.
TROI: I think it's worth a try.
LAFORGE: So, got any ideas on how we generate a kedion pulse?
PICARD: Data, where are you taking him?
DATA: That is not your concern.
PICARD: Data, wait. Let us talk to you.

[Planet surface]
WORF: Commander.

[Caverns]
RIKER: Hugh?
HUGH: Why are you here, Commander Riker? Hasn't the crew of the Enterprise caused enough damage already?
WORF: So you blame us for what has happened to the Borg?
HUGH: You gave me a sense of individuality, changed me, then sent me back to the Collective. You must have known that change would be passed on to others.
RIKER: We considered it. We knew it was a possibility.
HUGH: Then you made it possible for Lore to dominate us.
WORF: I cannot accept that. Lore is only one. The Borg could have stopped him.
HUGH: You don't know the condition we were in when he found us. Before my experience on the Enterprise, the Borg were a single-minded Collective. The voices in our heads were smooth and flowing. But after I returned, those voices began to change. They became uneven, discordant. For the first time, individual Borg had differing ideas about how to proceed. We couldn't function. Some Borg fought each other. Others simply shut themselves down. Many starved to death.
RIKER: And then Lore came along.
HUGH: You probably can't imagine what it is like to be so lost and frightened that you will listen to any voice which promises change.
WORF: Even if that voice insists on controlling you.
HUGH: That's what we wanted. Someone to show us the way out of confusion. Lore promised clarity and purpose. In the beginning, he seemed like a savior. The promise of becoming a superior race, of becoming fully artificial was compelling. We gladly did everything he asked of us. But after a while, it became clear that Lore had no idea how to keep his promise. That's when he began talking about the need for us to make sacrifices. Before we realized it, this was the result.
RIKER: What happened to them?
HUGH: Lore began to experiment, trying to re-make us in his image. This is the result of my encounter with the Enterprise, Commander. So you can see I don't particularly welcome your presence here.
RIKER: I'm sorry you feel that way. We just came to get our people. We won't cause you any more trouble.
HUGH: Tell me about my friend.
RIKER: Friend?
HUGH: The human called Geordi.
RIKER: I wish I could tell you about him. We think he may be held inside the compound.
HUGH: I cannot help you. I cannot risk our being discovered.
RIKER: Can you at least show us a way into the compound?
HUGH: These caverns lead to tunnels which run beneath the compound. Some of them connect with the environmental control ducts.
WORF: Show us. If we can determine the geography of the compound, we can form a rescue plan.

[Lore's lab]
LAFORGE: Data? Who's there?
DATA: Geordi?
LAFORGE: Captain.
DATA: Shh. We're getting out of here.
LAFORGE: Come on, hurry. Data was just here. I think he went to get something.
DATA: Too late. My brother suggested that I try to develop my sense of humor. What do you think?
LAFORGE: I think it needs a little work.
LAFORGE: What's happening?
DATA: I'm attemptin to neutralize your pain receptors.
LAFORGE: What are you going to do to me?
DATA: I am implanting nano-cortical fibers in your cerebrum. They are designed to learn and mimic your neural firing patterns. Once they are in place, I will destroy the existing brain cells. We'll see if the artificial neural network is able to take over your cognitive functions.
LAFORGE: Data, listen. Lore is controlling you. He's transmitting a carrier wave which is affecting your positronic matrix.
DATA: If the procedure is successful, your cognitive processing functions will be considerably improved.
LAFORGE: Don't you care that he's manipulating you?
DATA: However, there is a sixty percent chance you will not survive the procedure.
LAFORGE: I don't care much for those odds.
DATA: They are cause for concern. However, I still have Counselor Troi and Captain Picard. The odds are that at least one of the procedures will be successful.

[Holding cell]
TROI: Help me!
TROI: He tried to escape. The force field sent him into neural shock. If he dies, Lore will blame you.
PICARD: See if the corridor is empty.
DATA: Drop it or I will break his neck.
DATA: Take him.
PICARD: What have you done to him?
DATA: I will be back for him later.
TROI: Geordi, are you in pain?
LAFORGE: No. I'm just a little dizzy.
PICARD: I was able to take part of a transceiver from the guard's interlink system. I think that it uses some kind of phased-pulse technology. Do you think it could be modified to generate a kedion pulse that would reboot Data's program?
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, it's possible. See if you can locate the phase modulation circuitry.
TROI: I'll watch the door.
PICARD: All right, I think I've found it.
LAFORGE: Okay, good. Now, do you see anything that we might be able to use as a flux inhibitor?

[Bridge]
TAITT: Sensors still can't locate the Borg ship. I'm trying to filter out the interference.
BARNABY: We'll be within transporter range in nineteen seconds.
TAITT: I'm starting to get sensor resolution. There's the ship.
CRUSHER: We'll enter orbit here.
BARNABY: Helm, new course, heading zero five two mark seven.
HELM: Aye, sir.
BARNABY: Stand by to drop out of warp in eight seconds.
TAITT: Once we're in orbit, we should have about forty five seconds before they intercept us.
CRUSHER: Let's hope it's enough time.
BARNABY: Emergency deceleration in five seconds.
CRUSHER: Hold on.
CRUSHER: Report.
TAITT: We're in standard orbit, sir. The Borg ship is on the planet's far side, and is moving to intercept.
CRUSHER: Bridge to Transporter rooms. Begin evacuations.
BARNABY: The Borg will be in weapons range in thirty two seconds. We still can't locate Captain Picard's team and there's no sign of Commander Riker or Lieutenant Worf.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Salazar. Report.
SALAZAR (voiceover): We're pulling the last teams off right now.

[Transporter room]
SALAZAR: But there are six people still unaccounted for.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Keep trying.

[Bridge]
BARNABY: The Borg ship is powering up its weapons array.
CRUSHER: Come on, Chief. It's now or never.
TAITT: They're preparing to fire.
CRUSHER: Raise shields.
BARNABY: The port nacelle's been hit.
CRUSHER: Helm, get us out of here.
HELM: Aye, sir.
BARNABY: We've lost warp engines.
CRUSHER: Evasive maneuvers, full impulse.
TAITT: Shields down to eighty percent.
CRUSHER: Fire phasers.
BARNABY: Direct hit. No damage to the Borg ship.
TAITT: Shields down to seventy three percent.
CRUSHER: What's the status of the warp engines?
BARNABY: Still down. We can't outrun them.
CRUSHER: Helm, set a new course, heading three four four mark six. Full impulse.
HELM: Aye, sir.
TAITT: Sir, that heading takes us directly into the sun.
CRUSHER: The databanks should contain information about a process called metaphasic shielding.
BARNABY: I know about that research. Commander La Forge was developing a program that would implement metaphasic properties.
CRUSHER: Right. How far along was he?
BARNABY: It's in the databanks but it's never been tested.
CRUSHER: If we had metaphasic shielding, we could enter the sun's corona but the Borg ship wouldn't be able to follow. Can you bring the program online?
BARNABY: I can, but we have no way of knowing if the shields will hold.
TAITT: Sir, hull temperature is rising. Now at twelve thousand degrees C. Radiation level nearing ten thousand rads.
CRUSHER: Report.
TAITT: Shields at sixty two percent.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, activate the metaphasic program. It's our best shot.
BARNABY: Aye, sir.
TAITT: Hull temperature is critical. We can't withstand this heat much longer.
BARNABY: Program is online. Engaging metaphasic shield now.
TAITT: Hull temperature dropping. Down to seven thousand degrees.
CRUSHER: Maintain course.
BARNABY: The Borg ship has broken off pursuit.
CRUSHER: All stop.
TAITT: Sir, the Borg ship is taking up position relative to ours. They're going to wait for us to come out.
CRUSHER: The question is, how long can we survive in here?

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Well, I've done everything that Geordi said. Now to activate it.
TROI: How are we going to know whether the pulse reboots Data's ethical program?
PICARD: We'll only tell that when we see his behavior.
TROI: Won't he realize something's happened to him?
PICARD: No, it's one program among thousands. I just hope this force field has enough energy to trigger the pulse.

[Lore's lab]
LAFORGE: You know, Data, I've been thinking about some of the times we've had. Like that time we went sailing on Devala Lake. You remember that?
DATA: I have a complete memory record of that day.
LAFORGE: You decided to go swimming, and when you jumped out of the boat you sank straight to the bottom.
DATA: I did not have enough buoyancy to get back to the surface.
LAFORGE: You had to walk over a kilometer along the bottom to get back to shore.
DATA: One kilometer forty six meters.
LAFORGE: It took almost two weeks to get the water out of your servos.
DATA: I am ready to irradiate your existing brain cells.
LAFORGE: Data, if you ever go back to the way you were, you might not be able to forgive yourself for what you're about to do.
DATA: I am getting some anomalous readings from your neural net. I will need to do further testing before I proceed. Someone will come and take you back to your cell.

[Borg compound, outside]
LORE: There you are, brother. Have you made any progress with La Forge?
DATA: It is too early to tell if the nano-cortical fibers performed their function.
LORE: I suspect none of the humans will survive the process but then, it's their own fault, isn't it? They should never have come here. What were they thinking?
DATA: They came looking for me.
LORE: Humans are so sentimental.
DATA: I betrayed them. If they die, I am responsible.
LORE: Why are you talking like that? Is something wrong with your programming? Maybe I should check your systems.
DATA: I do not want you to check my systems. I must resolve these issues myself.
LORE: I think I've made a mistake. I don't believe you can tolerate the amount of emotion I've given you. Perhaps I should cut back a little.
LORE: How's that?
DATA: I do not like it.
LORE: Then you prefer having more emotions?
DATA: Yes.
LORE: They give you pleasure.
DATA: Yes. Please, I want more.
LORE: All right, a little more. For now. Aren't you going to thank me?
DATA: Thank you.
LORE: Don't mention it. I just hope this helps to clarify things for you.
LORE: I am concerned about my brother, Crosis. I don't believe he really wants to be a part of our great future.

[Bridge]
BARNABY: Sir, metaphasic shielding is losing integrity.
CRUSHER: Can you stabilize it?
BARNABY: No. We won't be able to stay in here longer than another three or four minutes.
CRUSHER: Do we have warp engines yet?
BARNABY: Last estimate was another half hour.
TAITT: Sir? I think I have an idea. I think it's possible we could induce a solar fusion eruption that would destroy the Borg ship.
BARNABY: What?
TAITT: We need to direct a highly energetic particle beam onto the sun's surface. That should produce a superfluid gas eruption. If we target the right spot, the eruption would envelop the Borg ship.
CRUSHER: How do you know this will work?
TAITT: I did my senior honors thesis on solar dynamics.
BARNABY: Excuse me, sir, but this isn't the Academy. And a student thesis is a long way from a workable plan.
TAITT: I've already configured the tractor emitters to create the particle beam and I've located the target point on the surface.
BARNABY: If her calculations are off, that eruption could encompass us.
TAITT: Well I'll just have to make sure my calculations are accurate, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: Let's do it.
TAITT: Yes, sir.
TAITT: The target area of the photosphere is destabilizing. Pressure wave expansion is accelerating.
BARNABY: Subsurface fusion has been initiated. An eruption is forming on the surface.
BARNABY: She did it! The Borg ship has been destroyed, sir.
CRUSHER: Helm, take us back to the planet. Full impulse.
HELM: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Well done, Taitt.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: You're killing him. He won't survive another session.
DATA: I did not come for him. I came for you.

[Borg hall]
PICARD: Data, it's not too late. If you remove the fibers, then Geordi might yet recover.
DATA: That would not be possible.
PICARD: Why? Because Lore tells you so?
DATA: It is for the greater good.
PICARD: Good? Data, isn't good and bad, right and wrong, a function of your ethical program?
DATA: That is correct.
PICARD: What does that program tell you about what you're doing to Geordi? About what you and Lore are doing to the Borg? It tells you that these things are wrong, doesn't it, Data? So how can actions that are wrong lead to a greater good?
DATA: You are attempting to confuse me.
PICARD: No, you're not confused, Data. You're sensing the truth. Your ethical program is fighting the negative emotions that Lore is sending you.
LORE: Ah, Captain. Thank you so much for joining us. You are going to assist me in a most important ceremony.

[Cavern]
WORF: We can use the environmental control ducts to get into the compound. They should lead us to the detention area.
RIKER: We'll have to move fast. If we need to stun one of the guards, the Borg will know right away that he's been hurt.
HUGH: When they realize, your escape route may be compromised.
RIKER: I guess we'll have to take that chance.
HUGH: Good luck, Commander.

[Borg hall]
LORE: It's time to put aside all doubts, brother. It's time to close the door on the past and commit yourself to the great work that lies ahead of us. I need to know I can count on you. As proof, I want you to kill Picard.
DATA: No. That would be wrong.
LORE: I didn't think you'd be able to do it. You've spent too many years among humans.
CROSIS: Hold him.
LORE: I've asked many sacrifices of you. Sacrifices I knew were necessary in order to build a better future. I want you to know that I ask no more of you than I am prepared to give myself. I am willing to make the greatest sacrifice of all. My own dear brother. Goodbye, Data.
HUGH: No!

[Lore's lab]
DATA: Lore.
LORE: You should be careful with that, brother. Somebody could get hurt.
DATA: What are you doing?
LORE: I've got a way out of here. I'm willing to forget about what happened back there and take you with me. We don't need anyone else. We're brothers. I'll give you the chip our father made. It contains much more than just emotions. It has memories. Memories our father wanted you to have.
DATA: Lore, I must deactivate you now.
LORE: Without me, you will never feel emotion again.
DATA: I know, but you leave me no other choice.
LORE: I love you, brother.
DATA: Goodbye, Lore.

[Borg hall]
PICARD: What about Geordi and Troi?
RIKER: The Enterprise is in orbit. I had them beamed aboard.
DATA: Lore is no longer functioning, sir. He must be disassembled so that he is no longer a threat.
PICARD: Welcome back, Data.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: What made you change your mind, Hugh?
HUGH: Perhaps my encounter with the Enterprise affected me more than I realized.
PICARD: What will you do now?
HUGH: I don't know. We can't go back to the Borg Collective, and we no longer have a leader here.
PICARD: I'm not sure that's true.
HUGH: Perhaps in time, we will learn to function as individuals and work together as a group.
PICARD: Good luck, Hugh.
HUGH: Goodbye.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47025.4. We have returned to Federation Space and are en route to Starbase two nine five. Mister La Forge remains under Doctor Crusher's care.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
LAFORGE: Hi, Data. I just wanted to let you know that Doctor Crusher says I'll be able to return to duty soon.
DATA: I am relieved that the injuries I inflicted on you are not permanent.
LAFORGE: What's that?
DATA: This is the chip my father created for me so that I could experience emotions. I had it removed from Lore's body before he was dismantled.
LAFORGE: Does it work?
DATA: No. I am pleased to say it was damaged when I was forced to fire on Lore.
LAFORGE: Pleased? Data, you've wanted emotions all your life.
DATA: Yes. But emotions were responsible for what I did to you. I would never risk letting that happen again. My friendship with you is too important to me.
LAFORGE: Data, I wouldn't be very much of a friend if I let you give up on a life-long dream, would I? Maybe someday, when you're ready.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter. Enter.
RIKER: Worf, they're going to be here any minute.
WORF: I am having problems.
RIKER: If I didn't know you better, I'd say that you were procrastinating.
WORF: Klingons do not procrastinate. It is a tactical delay.
RIKER: You have spend about five minutes greeting the Iyaarans maybe an hour making small talk at this reception. I'm the one who has to escort them around the ship for the next three days.
WORF: I do not enjoy these diplomatic situations.
RIKER: It's all part of being in Starfleet. There.
WORF: I do not see why it is necessary to wear these ridiculous uniforms.
RIKER: Protocol.
WORF: They look like dresses.
RIKER: That is an incredibly outmoded and sexist attitude. I'm surprised at you. Besides, you look good in a dress.

[Shuttlebay]
PICARD: What's keeping them?
PICARD: Ah, you're just in time. They're about to disembark.
PICARD: Ambassador Loquel, Ambassador Byleth. I'm Captain Picard. Welcome on board the Enterprise.
LOQUEL: It is our pleasure to be here, Captain.
PICARD: It is an honor to be the site of the first cultural exchange between the Iyaaran people and the Federation.
BYLETH: The next seven days should prove most illuminating.
LOQUEL: Allow me to introduce Voval. He will be taking you back to our homeworld.
PICARD: How do you do. I'm looking forward very much to meeting with the Premier of Iyar. There will be a reception held in your honor when you will meet the rest of my senior staff. I, of course, shall be on my way to your home world, but I shall be leaving you in the safe hands of my most experienced officers. Lieutenant Worf, of the Klingon Empire, is my head of Security. He will be in charge of your safety while you're on board. Counselor Deanna Troi of the planet Betazed will be your personal liaison office, Ambassador Loquel.
TROI: Ambassador, it's an honor to meet you. Would you like to see your quarters before we attend the reception?
LOQUEL: Please.
PICARD: Ambassador Byleth, this is Commander William Riker, my First Office, from the planet Earth. He has been assigned to you.
BYLETH: I want this one.
PICARD: Well, Commander Riker is a skilled diplomat, with wide experience in inter-species contact.
BYLETH: I'm sure, I'm sure. But I have decided. I want this Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: Well, that will be just fine. Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes. Yes Ambassador, it would be my pleasure to
BYLETH: Yes, yes. Enough of that. Show me to my quarters.
WORF: This way.
PICARD: Good luck.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Do you think there's enough food here, Data? Good evening.
WOMAN: Good evening.
TROI: So first thing tomorrow, I thought I'd take you on a tour of the operational centers and the residential decks of the ship. Then we could spend some time discussing the cultural underpinnings of your society.
LOQUEL: Are you going to eat?
TROI: Excuse me?
LOQUEL: You have no food on your plate. Are you going to eat?
TROI: Oh, well, actually, I was waiting until we got to the desserts.
LOQUEL: Desserts? What is this?
TROI: It's something we eat after the main course. It's usually very sweet, it's usually very bad for you. We eat it purely for pleasure. If you ask me, it's the best part of any meal.
LOQUEL: My people eat only for nourishment.
TROI: Oh, well, let me introduce you to some of my favorites. This is peach cobbler with whipped cream. Tarvokian powder cake. And this is my favorite. Ktarian chocolate puff. I don't know exactly what's inside, but I think it's made with seventeen varieties of chocolate.
LOQUEL: That is, that is
TROI: Delicious?
LOQUEL: Delicious.
TROI: Ambassador, I think we're going to get along very well. Shall we?
BYLETH: This is unacceptable.
WORF: I am sorry you do not care for our
BYLETH: Bring me new food. I require a higher protein and enzymatic content.
CRUSHER: Ambassador
BYLETH: Yes.
CRUSHER: It's the custom usually in a situation like this, for us to serve ourselves. It's called a buffet, and
BYLETH: Bring me new food.
CRUSHER: Ambassador
WORF: Doctor, it is all right. I am happy to bring more food.
DATA: How is your diplomatic assignment progressing?
WORF: Fine.
DATA: I have heard that in moments of diplomatic tension, it is often helpful to find elements of commonality.
WORF: Ambassador Byleth is demanding, temperamental and rude.
DATA: You share all of those qualities in abundance. Perhaps you should try to build on your similarities.

[Iyaaran Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: So, I understand that your homeworld has some of the most spectacular crystal formations in this sector. Is there any place in particular that you would recommend I visit while I'm there?
VOVAL: No.
PICARD: Well, I, er, what's our ETA?
VOVAL: Seventeen hours, thirty two minutes.
PICARD: I think I'll go update my itinerary.
PICARD: What happened?
VOVAL: There's been a system-wide power failure.
PICARD: What's the cause?
VOVAL: We have entered an energy disruption field. I do not recognize the configuration. Attitude controls failing.
PICARD: There is an M-class planet in this system. Can we reach it?
VOVAL: I will try.
PICARD: Inertial dampeners are offline. Life support is failing.
VOVAL: Entering the planet's atmosphere.
PICARD: Velocity dropping. Thermal shields at full power.
VOVAL: Prepare for impact.
PICARD: Voval. Voval, try not to move. You may have a concussion. Picard to Enterprise. Picard to Enterprise, do you read me? Too much interference.
PICARD: There is a structure of some kind. Some energy readings about two kilometers south of here. Voval, I'm going to try to find help. Do you understand? Now, try to stay conscious and don't leave the shuttle. There's some kind of plasma energy out on the surface. I'll be back as soon as I can.

[Engineering]
WORF: The Engineering sections encompass twelve decks of the secondary hull. Deck forty two contains the antimatter storage facility.
BYLETH: What is the mass flow rate of the antimatter replenishment stream to the containment pods?
WORF: Excuse me?
BYLETH: The antimatter replenishment rate. What is it?
WORF: I am not certain of the exact rate.
BYLETH: Perhaps there is someone here who does know the answer. You. Are you smarter than this one?
LAFORGE: Why do you ask?
BYLETH: Never mind.
BYLETH: I wish to see the Bussard collectors. Take me to them.
WORF: This way.

[Corridor]
TROI: This deck is devoted mainly to stellar cartography, biological research, and astrophysics. We have over a thousand people on board
LOQUEL: Are you sure you don't want some of this, this papalla juice?
TROI: No, thank you. I'm still recovering from all those desserts last night.
LOQUEL: Are you sure? It is very delicious.
TROI: I'm sure.
LOQUEL: Please, please. You've been so kind. Please.
TROI: Yum. Next we're going to go to deck eight, which is interesting because it's not really finished. It's sort of a multi-purpose deck. Sometimes when we need an extra lab or. Ambassador?
LOQUEL: What is this?
TROI: It's a child.
LOQUEL: Child?
TROI: Children are our offspring. They're our young. They grow into adults over a period of many years. They grow into beings like us.
LOQUEL: Offspring.
TROI: Ambassador, I'm curious. Now does your species procreate?
LOQUEL: Post-cellular compounding. We emerge from the natal pod fully grown.
TROI: I see.
LOQUEL: Do you have a name?
BOY: Eric
LOQUEL: Eric. Do you like dessert?
LOQUEL: May I give Eric some dessert?
TROI: That sounds like a wonderful idea. Come on, Eric.

[Freighter]
PICARD: Is someone there? Who's there?
PICARD: What do you want? Who are you? Who are you?
ANNA: Shh.
PICARD: No, wait. Stop. There was someone else in the shuttlecraft with me. The pilot, he's injured. He needs your help.
ANNA: He's dead.
PICARD: Hello. Smells good. Thank you. This is a Terellian cargo freighter, isn't it? Is this your ship? Are you one of the crew?
ANNA: No. I was a passenger. We crashed.
PICARD: How many people survived? Were you the only one? Well, you're certainly not a Terellian, unless you've lost two of your arms. What's your name? I'm Jean-Luc Picard. I'm a Starfleet officer.
ANNA: Anna.
PICARD: Anna, are there other people on this planet? How long have you been here?
ANNA: I don't know. You can't see the sun from here. I've lost track of all time.
PICARD: What was the date when you crashed?
ANNA: Stardate 40812.
PICARD: Seven years!
ANNA: Years?
PICARD: Anna, Anna. wait a minute.
ANNA: Seven years? I thought one, maybe two. How could it be seven?
PICARD: Anna, Anna, listen to me. Listen. On the shuttle, there is a lot of equipment that will have survived the crash. We can use it to contact Starfleet. They'll send a ship for us. We can leave.
ANNA: Leave?
PICARD: Yes. Both of us. Now, if you will help me to get to the shuttle. Ow.
ANNA: Don't move. it's bad.
PICARD: Don't worry, I won't move.
ANNA: You have three broken ribs. The restrictor device will hold the bones in place, let them
PICARD: Let them knit?
ANNA: It's been so long since I talked to anyone. I used to talk to myself, but then I thought it might mean that I was crazy, so I stopped talking. It'll be a while before you can walk.
PICARD: Perhaps you could go to the shuttle bring the equipment back here.
ANNA: I can do that.
PICARD: Good. Go into the cockpit, and look for a small comm. panel in the instrument array. See if you can remove it. Bring it back here.
ANNA: Don't move. I'll be back.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I am going to kill him! With my bare hands, I will take him by the throat and I will rip out his esophagus
RIKER: Worf.
WORF: I have failed in my mission, Commander. I am clearly a bad diplomat. For the sake of the ship and the Federation, I request reassignment.
RIKER: Denied.
WORF: Commander, these Iyaarans are arrogant, irritating. They cannot be reasoned with!
TROI: Ambassador Loquel's quite pleasant. I will admit though, he's a little unusual.
RIKER: What have you been able to find out about him so far?
TROI: He seems preoccupied with recreation. I've spent more time in Ten Forward in the last two days than I have in the past two months. And he's obsessed with food. Especially chocolate.
RIKER: You must be in heaven.
TROI: To be honest, he's testing even my limits.
WORF: You see? You see? They are insane!
TROI: Worf, you've been very patient with Ambassador Byleth, and that's good. But maybe it's time to let him know that some behavior is unacceptable to us. I think it's all right to suggest limits for the Ambassador.
WORF: Bah.
RIKER: Maybe we should loosen things up a little bit, meet in a less official capacity. How about a friendly game of poker?

[Freighter]
ANNA: What are you doing? You should be in bed.
PICARD: Anna, why was this door locked from the outside?
ANNA: For your protection.
PICARD: From what?
ANNA: There are dangerous animals here. Come sit down. Look, I have the comm. panel.
PICARD: Good.
ANNA: It wasn't easy. I had to force it out of the equipment bay.
PICARD: If we can boost the output field, I might be able to send a distress signal. Something seems to be wrong with it.
ANNA: What's the matter?
PICARD: This transmitter module has been totally destroyed. How could that happen? It looks as though it's been hit by a phaser blast.
ANNA: I used a phaser to cut it free. Maybe I accidentally damaged it. You can fix it, can't you?
PICARD: No.
ANNA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
PICARD: Anna, we will get out of here. It's not going to be easy, but we need to work together.
ANNA: I can't believe I did that. That I damaged our only chance. I've waited for so long. At first, I had hoped that I'd be rescued. I kept setting up microfusion flares and looking up at the sky and waiting for someone to come and take me away. But it never happened. There's a precipice near here. I used to go there and stare down at the gorge and I'd think, I can just step over the edge and end it all. And then I realized it was the hope that was driving me crazy, that I had to accept that I would never get out of here.
PICARD: Anna, no matter how long it takes, we will get out of here.
ANNA: I knew from the moment I saw you that you were here to save me. I'll do anything you want. Just don't leave me. I don't ever want to be alone again.
ANNA: I love you.
ANNA: I found some coltayin roots. They're not much to look at but they taste good. What are you doing? You're going to hurt yourself.
PICARD: No, no, no, it's all right. I'm just trying to dislodge this power cell. Nearly got it. There. No, no, it's all right. The energy relays are corroded but I think it should be able to hold one more charge. If I can regenerate this, then I may be able to reactivate the shuttlecraft's engines.
ANNA: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration. I may still have some Terellian spices around here, and I'll boil these roots and make us a nice broth.
PICARD: That sounds delightful.
ANNA: If we ever do get out of here, will you promise to show me this starship of yours? This Enterprise?
PICARD: Of course. Anna, would you pass me that tricorder, I'm going to try to repair these energy relays.
ANNA: I meant what I said before. I do love you.
PICARD: Anna, I'm grateful to you for saving my life, and I think that you are a warm and compassionate person, and I feel a great sympathy for what you've been through alone here on this planet, but I don't think that you can really be in love with me.
ANNA: How can you say that? Of course I love you.
PICARD: No, I'm the first person you've seen in seven years. I'm bringing you the hope of leaving this place. Don't you think that you could possibly be just a little confused right now?
ANNA: So you're not attracted to me.
PICARD: I think that's a little premature. We hardly know anything about each other.
ANNA: I understand, and I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable.
PICARD: No harm done. It's going to take at least a couple of hours to charge this cell. Then as soon as it's done, we should get it over to the shuttle immediately. This cell casing is already beginning to break down. Anna, we are going to get out of here.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: The bet is ten. That's to you, Ambassador.
LOQUEL: I will see the bet, and raise ten.
TROI: I'm in for twenty.
WORF: I'm in. And I raise twenty.
BYLETH: You are bluffing.
WORF: Excuse me, Ambassador. Those are my chips.
BYLETH: You are in error. Those chips are mine.
WORF: I saw you take two chips from my pile.
BYLETH: You would dare to accuse me of stealing?
WORF: Yes.
BYLETH: You are lying because you are losing the game.
WORF: I am losing because you've been cheating all along!
RIKER: Wait a minute. Calm down.
BYLETH: Even if I were cheating, how would a plodding animal like you know it?
WORF: You are an insulting, pompous fool, and if you were not an Ambassador, I would disembowel you right here!
BYLETH: Do not let my title inhibit you, Klingon!
BYLETH: Yes. Good.
RIKER: Stop, Mister Worf! That is an order!
BYLETH: Wonderful. Very good! Thank you. Lieutenant Worf. I think I understand now. That was a very effective demonstration.
WORF: What?
BYLETH: If you'll excuse me, I would like to document this experience.

[Freighter]
PICARD: The power cell is ready. We should take it over to the shuttle.
ANNA: No. We can't leave right now.
PICARD: Why not?
ANNA: The plasma storms are too strong. It's dangerous. Wait a few hours, then we can go.
PICARD: We don't have a few hours. I told you, this cell is already beginning to degenerate.
ANNA: Jean-Luc, it's a difficult journey. The restriction field will make it very hard for you to walk.
PICARD: I'm feeling very much better. in fact, I don't intend to go on using this any longer.
ANNA: No! You can't remove it yet. No!
PICARD: There's no pain. It would appear I don't have any broken ribs after all.
ANNA: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: What's going on? Why are you trying to keep me here?
ANNA: Please, I love you.
PICARD: Why are you keeping me locked in this freighter? You say that there are wild animals out there but I haven't heard or seen a single one of them.
ANNA: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: What about that comm. panel? You said you damaged it when you were cutting it out of the shuttle. Did you? You see, I find it hard to believe that you would destroy the one piece of equipment that could get you out of here after seven years. And what was this really for? To keep me immobilized?
ANNA: I was afraid. I didn't want you to leave me.
PICARD: So it was necessary to keep me captive?
ANNA: I was scared. I wanted you to stay, to love me.
PICARD: I'm going to go look for the shuttle myself.
ANNA: No.
PICARD: Anna!
ANNA: Don't fight me.
PICARD: Anna, no!
ANNA: You should love me now. We're together. We depend on each other. I know more about you. Love me.
PICARD: Anna, stop!
ANNA: I've failed. You don't love me. It's over.
PICARD: Anna. Anna! Anna, where are you going?
VOICE (voiceover): Hello! Is anyone in there?
PICARD: Yes! Inside here!
VOICE (voiceover): Hello!
PICARD: Inside the freighter! The door is on the opposite side! Over here! The door's over here!
PICARD: Voval! I thought you were dead.
VOVAL: Dead?
PICARD: Yes. There's a woman living here. She told me that she'd been to the shuttle. She said that she saw you dead.
VOVAL: Yes. That is understandable. When my species is injured, our metabolic rate slows until our body can heal itself. This state could easily be mistaken for death.
PICARD: I see.
VOVAL: When you did not return to the shuttle I intended to track you. Surface conditions made it very difficult. So cold. I saw someone running away from here. Was it the woman?
PICARD: Yes.
VOVAL: Why did she leave the shelter?
PICARD: She was upset.
VOVAL: Do you think she may harm herself? There's a dangerous precipice near here. She was headed in that direction
PICARD: It's possible.
VOVAL: Then we should go find her.
PICARD: You stay here. Keep warm. I'll go and look for her.
VOVAL: We will go together.

[Precipice]
PICARD: Anna! Anna!
VOVAL: Captain, this ridge extends for a kilometer in either direction.
PICARD: We can search it twice as fast if we separate.
PICARD: Anna! Anna!
PICARD: Anna, Anna.
ANNA: Stay away from me.
PICARD: You don't have to do this. I found Voval, the shuttle pilot, he's still alive. He can help us get away from here.
ANNA: I don't care. I'll jump unless you promise to love me.
PICARD: No. No, I won't promise. You have been manipulating me, haven't you?
ANNA: Jean-Luc, what are you saying?
PICARD: The necklace. It broke. I saw it in the cargo freighter, on the floor by the fire. I left it there. Now it's around your neck. It's whole. How?
ANNA: Tell me you love me. I must know.
PICARD: Where's Voval? Isn't it convenient that he arrived moments after you left? That he insisted that I come here to look for you? That I find you, here on the ledge, ready to jump? That's very good timing, don't you think?
ANNA: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Are you and Voval working together? He's the only one who could have brought you the necklace.
ANNA: Tell me about your love or I'll jump!
PICARD: Go ahead. Why don't you do it? It's a long way down. Must be two hundred meters. You'd die instantly, if that's what you want. But I don't think that it really is.
VOVAL: I have failed.
PICARD: Failed? Voval, what is going on?
VOVAL: My name is Ambassador Voval.
PICARD: Ambassador?
VOVAL: My mission was to study human intimacy, specifically the concept you call love. In our study of your culture, we did not understand certain concepts. So we sent three representatives to study them, to experience them.
PICARD: But why did you believe that bringing me here would give you a better understanding of love?
VOVAL: Several years ago, we discovered the remains of the Terellian freighter on this planet. The ship contained logs made by a single survivor, a human woman. That was our first contact with human culture. The woman lived alone here for seven years until another human crashed on this planet. A human male.
PICARD: And the man was injured and she nursed him back to health, and they fell in love.
VOVAL: In the logs, she described many concepts we found difficult to understand. Pleasure, antagonism, love. These were alien to us. We wished to experience them for ourselves. Ambassador Loquel was sent to experience pleasure. Byleth was sent to experience antagonism. And I was sent to experience love. Was this wrong?
PICARD: Let me just say that we would not take such a direct approach. Ambassador, I have tell you that in my culture, what you have done would be considered a crime.
VOVAL: Crime?
PICARD: Well, we'll can talk about it later. For now, I think we should get off this planet. Am I in assuming the damage the shuttle is not as bad as it seems?
VOVAL: That is correct. We can leave at any time.
PICARD: I think that now would be quite nice.

[Shuttlebay]
RIKER: You look a little sore.
BYLETH: Lieutenant Worf was kind enough to engage me in eleven hours of holodeck battle exercises.
RIKER: Eleven hours.
BYLETH: Yes, I learned a great deal about the concept of antagonism.
WORF: It was excruciating.
LOQUEL: Counselor, these are bio-enzymatic supplements my people consume for food. I'm afraid you will find they are not as delicious as your chocolate.
TROI: After the past few days, I could use something a little bland. Goodbye, Ambassador.
LOQUEL: Fascinating species.
BYLETH: Indeed.
VOVAL: Thank you, Captain. This has been an enlightening experience.
PICARD: For me as well, Ambassador.
VOVAL: I am sorry if our diplomatic methods offended you.
PICARD: No, on the contrary, I found your approach intriguing. We humans tend to take a rather balanced approach towards life. Never too much, never too little, and it's very nice to find a culture that is willing to take an experience to its furthest extreme.
VOVAL: Goodbye, Captain.
PICARD: Ambassador.

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER (voiceover): Geordi, have you found it yet?
LAFORGE: Not yet. I'm starting to get some fumes. Ammonia, chlorine, potassium chloride.
LAFORGE: I can feel the heat from here.
LAFORGE: There it is.
RIKER (voiceover): How far?
LAFORGE: About ten meters up the ODN line. Boy, it's hot. I'd say over two thousand degrees. I'm going in.
LAFORGE: We're okay. I've activated the emergency suppression system.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: All his vital functions are completely normal.
DATA: The interface unit is operating within expected parameters.
RIKER: Why did he start coughing when he went through the gasses?
CRUSHER: Psychosomatic response.
LAFORGE: I feel like I'm actually here. I mean there, in the Jefferies tube. It's funny. When I saw the smoke, I couldn't help but cough.
DATA: No one else has reported so complete a sensory experience.
CRUSHER: The interface is perfect for Geordi because his visor inputs allow the probe to transmit information directly into his cerebral cortex.
RIKER: It looks like this is going to work. Geordi, I'd like to get the probe out of the Jefferies tube and onto the launch bay before we reach Marijne Seven.
LAFORGE: Will do. Wait a minute.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Something's wrong. Can't get my left leg to work.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: The probe is designed to respond to any movement Geordi intends to make. When his brain sends a message to move his leg, the interface should move the probe instead.
DATA: Apparently the tactile sensors are too low. I will increase the input.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: There it goes. I'm on my way down.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: Why the body suit?
DATA: It provides tactile sensations so that Geordi can feel he's in the same environment as the probe.
CRUSHER: Geordi, what's wrong?
LAFORGE: Nothing. I'm seeing my reflection in a panel.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I forgot what a handsome guy I am.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47215.5. We are responding to a distress call from the science vessel Raman, which is apparently trapped inside the turbulent atmosphere of an unusual gas giant planet. We will use an experimental interface probe in our attempt to rescue it.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have reviewed the vessel's mission plans. The Raman was to descend to the lower atmosphere, eleven thousand kilometers below its current position. The crew was to sample the atmosphere at that level, and then return to a safer orbit.
LAFORGE: Something must have happened down there. Maybe the shields failed, or they had some kind of inversion reaction in the nacelles.
PICARD: Any life signs?
LAFORGE: Our biosensors are useless. There's too much interference in the atmosphere.
RIKER: The crew might still be alive. There's no way we can tell from up here.
PICARD: Will the probe be able to transmit through that interference?
DATA: The probe sends information via a focused particle beam. It should be able to cut through the interference.
LAFORGE: But we may have to operate the probe at close to tolerance levels.
PICARD: Will your nervous system be able to handle that much sensory input?
LAFORGE: We've already tested the interface at about seventy percent tolerance.
RIKER: We shouldn't have any trouble going higher. The safety override will kick in at about ninety eight percent tolerance, and that'll disengage the interface.
WORF: Captain, I am receiving a transmission from Starfleet Command. Admiral Holt.
PICARD: In my ready room. The seven people on that ship are our first priority. Is the probe ready for launch?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Send it directly to the aft section of the Raman through the secondary air lock. That way it should put it just one bulkhead away from the Bridge.
LAFORGE: I'll interface with the probe as soon as it's ready, take it the rest of the way from there.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Hello, Marcus.
HOLT (screen): Jean-Luc.
PICARD: How's life on DS Three?
HOLT (screen): We're hosting this year's palio. The Ferengi have already been accused of trying to bribe the Breen pilot into throwing the race.
PICARD: There's nothing unusual about that.
HOLT (screen): Nothing at all. I wish I could say I was just calling to catch up on things. Nine days ago, the Hera left here on a routine courier mission. We were in contact with them for five of those days. Then the ship disappeared without a trace.
PICARD: The Hera?
HOLT (screen): I'm afraid so. The Excelsior and the Noble have been retracing its course for the last seventy two hours. Nothing. I'm going to keep them at it for another seventy two. But to be honest, I don't think another week would make any difference.
PICARD: I'll inform Commander La Forge.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Mister Data, I'd like a word with Commander La Forge.
DATA: Aye, sir. I will be on the Bridge.
PICARD: Geordi, I've just spoken with Starfleet. The Hera is missing.
LAFORGE: Missing? My mother?
PICARD: Captain La Forge has disappeared along with the rest of her crew.

[La Forge's quarters]
SILVA (screen): I saw your father last week and your sister about ten days before that. I decided I missed my favorite son.
LAFORGE: Your only son, Ma.
SILVA (screen): You're going to have to see the Hera again. We've got a lot of new faces on board, including a Chief Engineer who juices up the nacelles every chance she gets. I think she's the best technician in the fleet. Okay, second best.
LAFORGE: Come in.
RIKER: I'm sorry, I didn't know you were
LAFORGE: Don't worry about it.
SILVA (screen): Maybe you should meet her. We're going to be in the same sector next week. Take a shuttle over and I'll introduce you.
LAFORGE: My mother's always trying to find me a wife.
SILVA (screen): But if you're too busy, I'll see you at your father's birthday party. Remember, if you talk to him it's a surprise.
LAFORGE: This came in about three weeks ago. I never got back to her.
RIKER: Geordi, the probe has entered the planet's atmosphere and I'm ready to take it onto the ship. If you would like to take a couple of days off, I'll run the interface.
LAFORGE: The interface is calibrated specifically to my visor's inputs. It would take you at least ten hours to convert it, and those crewmen down there can't wait.
RIKER: The interface doesn't have to be fully compatible. I could run it right now. I wouldn't have the same control that you have, but it would still work.
LAFORGE: Forget it. I'm the best person for the job, and there's no reason why we shouldn't proceed as planned.
RIKER: The Hera is reason enough.
LAFORGE: The Hera is missing, that's all. Now until I hear something different, my mother might just as well have taken the crew on an unscheduled holiday. Let's go.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, the probe is through the airlock and in position aboard the Raman.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Data. Report.

[Laboratory]
DATA: We are ready to bring the interface online, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Proceed.
DATA: Activating the remote sensors. Initiating interface now.
CRUSHER: Vital signs normal. Geordi, how do you feel?
LAFORGE: Fine.
DATA: Do you have visual contact?
LAFORGE: Not yet.

[Raman corridor]
LAFORGE: Data, turn up the input sensors. I'm not seeing anything.
DATA (voiceover): Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: Okay, I can see.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: But no colors.
DATA: Increasing signal strength to seventy five percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: Ah, that's better.
CRUSHER: Your pulse has gone up. Your nervous system probably has to get used to the input levels.
LAFORGE: I'm excited, that's all, Doctor. This is like being on a roller coaster. Or a first date. I'm all right.
CRUSHER: I'll be the judge of that. If your heart rate gets too high, we're going to disconnect you.
LAFORGE: Understood.

[Raman corridor]
LAFORGE: It's a mess in here. There must be a breach in the hull someplace. I'm picking up atmospheric gasses in the corridor. Methane and ammonia, primarily. That break in the hull might even be on the Bridge itself. I'm heading towards the Bridge. I've found someone.
DATA (voiceover): What is your position?
LAFORGE: About twelve meters up the main corridor. He's trapped under some conduit from the bulkhead. I can't move it. I'm going to need more power to the tractor beam.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Go to eighty percent of tolerance, Data. No higher.
LAFORGE: He's dead. Data, that door at the end of this corridor. What's it lead to?
DATA (voiceover): A magnetic storage bay.
LAFORGE: If there was a break in the Bridge, that'd be the safest place to go. Data, give me a phaser burst. Narrow focus, level four intensity.
LAFORGE: I've found them. They're dead. All of them. There's a fire in here. Argh!

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Data, disconnect! What happened? Geordi?
LAFORGE: I don't know. My hands.
CRUSHER: They're burned.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How did this happen?
CRUSHER: There was some kind of energy discharge in the interface suit.
PICARD: But shouldn't the safety overrides have prevented that?
CRUSHER: Yes, but I have a theory why they didn't. The tolerance levels of the interface were set extremely high. I think Geordi's neural response to the input was so strong that it created a feedback loop.
LAFORGE: The sensors that were transmitting the sensation of heat to my hands must've overloaded.
PICARD: The crew of the Raman are dead. I would like to retrieve them and their vessel, but not if it means putting Geordi's safety at risk.
LAFORGE: If we turn down the sensory input on the probe, I should be fine. Seven people lost their lives down there, Captain. We should at least retrieve the information they were collecting.
PICARD: Doctor?
CRUSHER: If we operate the interface at lower input levels, I'd say the risk is acceptable.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker here.
PICARD: We will proceed with the probe.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We'll have to take it into the Raman's auxiliary control room. Their Bridge is too badly damaged.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How long before you have it in position?
RIKER (voiceover): A couple of hours. We have to cut through the bulkhead.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER: Well, it looks like you'll have time to recuperate.
LAFORGE: Yeah. There's something I've got to do anyway.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: How are you, Dad?
DR LA FORGE: As well as expected, under the circumstances. Are you okay?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DR LA FORGE: I spoke with your sister this morning. She said she'll be in touch with you in a few days. Right now, she's pretty upset. The service for the Hera will probably be on Vulcan. Most of the crew was from there. But your sister and I want to have a private ceremony.
LAFORGE: Dad. Don't you think everybody's jumping the gun here? Last I heard there were still two starships out there looking for them. They've found no debris, no residual warp distortion.
DR LA FORGE: And no ship.
LAFORGE: Not yet, but that doesn't mean they won't.
DR LA FORGE: Starfleet is considering the Hera lost. The search isn't much more than a formality at this point. Geordi, your mother's gone.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well you can think that if you want. But until I see some hard evidence, I'm not going to give up hope.
DR LA FORGE: All right, Geordi. Call me if you need anything.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Hey, Data. Still working?
DATA: No. I have completed the adjustments on the interface. I am now waiting for Commander Riker to finish moving the probe. Do you need to be comforted?
LAFORGE: No. I was just passing by. I was wondering what you were up to.
DATA: I am using the time to catch up on my study of poetry.
LAFORGE: Data, there's nothing on the screen.
DATA: That is not entirely correct. While it is true the display is currently blank, this emptiness has a poetic meaning. Therefore it cannot be considered nothing as such.
LAFORGE: Says who?
DATA: The ancient Doosodarians. Much of their poetry contained such lacunae or empty spaces. Often these pauses measured several days in length, during which poet and audience were encouraged to fully acknowledge the emptiness of the experience.
LAFORGE: I remember a few lectures from Starfleet Academy that seemed like that.
DATA: Are you certain you do not wish to talk about your mother?
LAFORGE: Why would you ask that?
DATA: You are no doubt feeling emotional distress as a result of her disappearance. While you claim to be just passing by, that is most likely an excuse to start a conversation about this uncomfortable subject. Am I correct?
LAFORGE: No, Data. Sometimes just passing by means, just passing by.
DATA: Then I apologize for my premature assumption. This particular poem has a lacuna of forty seven minutes. You may experience the emptiness with me if you wish.
LAFORGE: Thanks. You know, Data, maybe you gave up a little too easily.
DATA: I do not understand.
LAFORGE: Well, when I said just passing by means just passing by, I really didn't mean it.
DATA: My initial assumption was correct. You do wish to speak of your mother.
LAFORGE: Am I crazy to think that she's still alive?
DATA: Your sanity is not in question. However, your evaluation of the available information is biased.
LAFORGE: She's a starship captain. She's gotten herself into and out of impossible situations before. Why should this be any different?
DATA: Disappearances fitting the profile of the Hera have rarely ended with the safe recovery of ship and crew.
LAFORGE: Well that makes me feel much better. Look, I'm sorry, Data. I didn't mean to snap at you.
DATA: I am not offended. You are upset. Your reactions are not surprising.
LAFORGE: It's just that, if she really is dead, I don't know what I'm going to do.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: We're receiving the probe's telemetry.
DATA: The input levels are currently at fifty three percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: That's too low, Data. I won't be able to do anything down there.
CRUSHER: I want to start with as wide a margin of safety as possible. We can adjust upward later. Ready?
LAFORGE: Go ahead.
DATA: Initiating interface.
LAFORGE: I can't see anything.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
DATA (voiceover): I am increasing the input now.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, that's better, but I need more.
DATA (voiceover): Is this level sufficient? Geordi? Geordi, do you hear me?
LAFORGE: Mom? Mom, is it you?
SILVA: Is it you?
LAFORGE: Oh, I forgot. All you can see is this probe. Yes, it's me. I'm actually on the Enterprise. I'm interfaced with this probe.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Geordi, who are you speaking to? What are you seeing?

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: But is it really you?
SILVA: Yes, Geordi. It's mom.
LAFORGE: But bow can that be? I mean, how is it possible?
SILVA: There's no time to explain. We have to go down.
LAFORGE: Down where?
SILVA: The surface.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Geordi, report.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: Hang on, Doctor. Why? Why do we have to go down to the surface?
SILVA: We're dying.
LAFORGE: We? The Hera? You mean the Hera is down there?
CRUSHER (voiceover): We're disconnecting you right now.
LAFORGE: No, wait.
SILVA: We need your help. I need your help. Geordi
LAFORGE: Mom.

[Laboratory]
DATA: The cut off has been automatically activated.
CRUSHER: He's in neural shock.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The sensory overload didn't cause any permanent damage, but I wouldn't want to expose his brain to that kind of stimulus again.
PICARD: Is there any indication what caused this hallucination?
CRUSHER: His brain functions are normal.
LAFORGE: I told you, I wasn't hallucinating.
DATA: Geordi, I have analyzed the probe's sensor logs. There are no record to indicate the presence of a living human on board the Raman.
LAFORGE: Well she wasn't actually there. Her ship is down on the surface.
PICARD: So you believe that what you saw was some kind of transmission?
LAFORGE: Somehow she has managed to communicate with me.
DATA: We have no indication of a transmission of any kind.
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm the only one who can detect it because I'm interfaced with the probe.
DATA: The probe does allow Geordi to sense quantum fluctuations, subspace anomalies, and other phenomenon not perceptible by any other kind of sensors.
PICARD: Granted, but how could he perceive his mother visually as if she were standing there in the room?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, I do know that our brains weren't designed to process the kind of sensory information Geordi was getting. When the brain receives something it can't understand, it interprets the input as best it can, sometimes as a smell or a sound, sometimes visually.
LAFORGE: You see?
CRUSHER: But Geordi, I'm not saying that your mother was really communicating with you. I'm just trying to give you a reason why you might've thought that she was.
LAFORGE: Look, I'm telling you my mother's ship is trapped down there and we've got to help them.
PICARD: Geordi, the Hera's last reported location was three hundred light years away. How could it end up here?
DATA: If the Hera is on the surface, its hull could not possibly withstand the pressure of the atmosphere.
LAFORGE: Well at least let me go back down there just to be sure.
CRUSHER: I do not recommend that he use the interface again. The sensory overload almost killed you.
LAFORGE: I'll be all right.
PICARD: No, no, I'm sorry, Geordi. I'm not prepared to risk your life. Data, find another way of salvaging the Raman. I want an alternate plan in two hours.
PICARD: Geordi, I'd like you to talk to Counselor Troi. She's expecting you.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
TROI: What's your mother like, Geordi?
LAFORGE: If you think I'm going to start talking about my childhood, Counselor, you're way off.
TROI: That's not what I asked.
LAFORGE: Well, she's, she's brilliant. Funny. She's incredibly perceptive. She knows people. Knows what they're all about even before they open their mouths. She's always been that way. She's a real good judge of character.
TROI: When was the last time you saw her?
LAFORGE: About seven months ago, when she first took command of the Hera. I went to a party she had for her crew. She wanted me to come over and see her, but I was really busy at the time. I mean I suppose I could have made the time to go and see her, but, you know, I just didn't think that. I mean, you know, I, I didn't think that
TROI: You didn't think it would be your last chance to see her.
LAFORGE: That's not what I was going to say.
TROI: I want to suggest something. Call it a theory, all right?
LAFORGE: All right.
TROI: You're worried about the disappearance of your mother, guilty that you didn't see her when you had the chance, so you're unwilling to consider that she might be dead. Your need to believe she's alive is so strong that it manifests itself as a physical image.
LAFORGE: But she told me she's trapped on that planet, that she's in danger. Now, if this was some kind of wish fulfillment, don't you think I'd be fantasizing her safe and sound?
TROI: No. Because that would be the end of your fantasy. You'd know it wasn't true. The more involved and complicated and unending your story is, the longer you can believe your mother's still alive.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, that's your theory, Counselor. I've got one of my own.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I have been exploring the possibility of using a tractor beam to pull the Raman from the atmosphere. However, the high level of interference prevents a positive lock.
RIKER: If we set up some sort of relay system?
DATA: That is my conclusion as well, Commander. Two shuttlecraft, staggered between the Enterprise and the Raman, with their shields adjusted to refocus the tractor beam.
PICARD: Can we get the shuttles close enough without danger? Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sure. Yeah. As long as we keep them both above the troposphere, that'll be all right.
PICARD: Then in that case
LAFORGE: But what about the Hera? We'd be leaving my mother and her crew stranded on the planet.
PICARD: Commander.
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. A couple of weeks ago I got a message from my mother. She said she had a new Chief Engineer who had been experimenting with the warp drive. Now, I've seen the Hera. It uses trionic initiators in the warp coil. They have a reputation of strange side effects, especially when you start playing around with them.
DATA: There have been reports of warp bubbles and other subspace deformations.
LAFORGE: So, what if that's what happened? Not a warp bubble, but a subspace funnel.
RIKER: Connecting two points through subspace?
LAFORGE: Well the Hera could have accidentally created a distortion that emptied out right here at Marijne Seven.
PICARD: Why here?
LAFORGE: The Hera passed near this planet just ten days ago. There's an awful lot of subspace disturbance in the atmosphere. The ship could've accidentally picked up some residual traces that directed the funnel right back here.
RIKER: So the Hera's in one piece somewhere out there?
LAFORGE: Maybe it's being surrounded by some kind of warp field, but who knows for how long?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you have any evidence to support this hypothesis?
LAFORGE: I did pick up some pretty strange subspace readings when I was interfaced with the probe.
RIKER: Geordi, that could have been anything.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but I talked to her, Commander. She asked me to bring the Raman closer to the planet.
PICARD: Mister Data, is any of this possible?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it is highly unlikely.
PICARD: How unlikely?
DATA: Nearly impossible, sir.
PICARD: let's proceed with the shuttle plan.
LAFORGE: Captain
PICARD: Dismissed. Mister La Forge.
PICARD: I want you to know that I am not unsympathetic to what you're going through. Your mother's disappearance is tragic, but I cannot risk your safety on the basis of a dubious hypothesis.
LAFORGE: Captain, if I'm right and there's just one chance in a million that she's alive
PICARD: I'm sorry, Geordi. My decision is made.
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: We'll be in position to use the tractor beam in less than an hour.
LAFORGE: You didn't come all the way down here to tell me that.
RIKER: No, I didn't. Geordi, I may have seemed a little harsh about the situation aboard the Raman. I just don't like the idea of one of my best officers putting himself in unnecessary danger.
LAFORGE: I guess I feel like I should be the one to decide whether it's unnecessary or not.
RIKER: My mother died when I was a baby. All I have is pictures, and the stories that my father used to tell me about her. I begged him to tell those stories over and over. When I was five and I went to school, I started to tell my new friends those same stories, pretending that she was alive. Then I started believing that she was alive, that she'd just gone away, that she was coming back. The teacher got wind of this, and she and my father had this talk with me. They told me it was important to accept the fact that my mother was dead and that she wasn't coming back. And all the hoping in the world wouldn't make it so. In my mind, that was the day that my mother actually died. I cried all that night. But after that, it started feeling better.
LAFORGE: Your mother was dead. There was proof. There was a body, and a funeral. It was a reality.
RIKER: Geordi.
LAFORGE: If I could see a body, if there were wreckage, I could accept it, but my mother has just disappeared. And now, there's a possibility that she is alive. And I'm not going to quit. Not yet.

[Laboratory]
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone.
LAFORGE: Did you?
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behavior patterns to predict certain decisions.
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well.
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain.
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my mother might be down on that planet.
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being.
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die. I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this.
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the mission.
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my mother.
LAFORGE: What are you doing?
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done.
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this.
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.
DATA: However, I do have a request.
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that?
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is not real.
LAFORGE: I will. I promise.
DATA: I am establishing the interface.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: Mom? Mom?
SILVA: Hello, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Mom, how did you get here?
SILVA: I'm not really with you, Geordi. I'm on my ship, on the surface. We were pulled into a warp funnel.
LAFORGE: That's just what I thought. How are we communicating?
SILVA: We found a way to send a subspace signal that could cut through the atmospheric interference.
DATA (voiceover): Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother?
LAFORGE: Yes, and she's just

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying.
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your mother.
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
SILVA: We need your help.
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. I'm going to take the Raman into a low stationary orbit and initiate an inverse warp cascade.
SILVA: Why?
LAFORGE: The subspace distortion from the cascade should reverse the warp funnel. Your ship will end up right back where it started.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly turbulent the farther down you go. You may not be able to bring the Raman close enough to the Hera before being destroyed.
LAFORGE: I have to try, Data.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
SILVA: We're running out of time.
LAFORGE: Shields back online. We're starting our descent. Thank God.
SILVA: Thank God?
LAFORGE: That you're alive. That I was right about all of this. I can't wait to call Dad. He and Ariana had given up.
SILVA: We're going home.
LAFORGE: Well, eventually, yeah. Data, everything's fading in and out.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: I'm losing the interface.
DATA: The probe is descending out of range.
LAFORGE: You'll have to turn up the input gain to maintain my connection.
DATA: We are already at seventy five percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: Data, you can turn it all the way up to a hundred if you increase it slowly enough. Give my nervous system chance to adjust.
DATA: That is theoretically true, but even at this level of input you are already experiencing dangerous neural feedback.
LAFORGE: There are over three hundred people on board the Hera, Data. You and I are the only chance they've got.
DATA: I will increase the gain incrementally as you descend.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: It's working.

[Laboratory]
DATA: When we are ready to disconnect the interface, we must allow enough time to lower the input levels, otherwise your nervous system will go into shock from the sudden drop in input.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: Once I initiate the warp cascade we can start dropping the gain.
DATA (voiceover): Understood.
LAFORGE: We'll be in sensor range of the Hera within a few minutes. Mom, I'm really sorry I didn't by to see you a few weeks ago.
SILVA: You were too busy with work.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm sorry. It won't happen again.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the Raman is descending toward the planet.
RIKER: Geordi.

[Laboratory]
DATA: We are at ninety percent of tolerance. My calculations show you will reach one hundred percent of tolerance before you are in range of the Hera.
LAFORGE: Then we're going to have to go beyond tolerance.
DATA: That would not be advisable. You must cease your descent.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
SILVA: No, Geordi, don't, please.
LAFORGE: Data, I'm taking this ship down. Now, if you don't boost the gain past tolerance levels, I'll lose the interface when we go out of range and my system will go into shock.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Geordi, you are putting me in a difficult position. Please, cease your descent.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I won't do it, Data. You're going to have to increase the tolerance.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Disengaging safety systems. Going to full tolerance levels, now.
LAFORGE: Thank you, Data.

[Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: We're getting close.
SILVA: Thank God.
PICARD (voiceover): Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain?

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Stop your descent. Prepare to disengage the interface.
LAFORGE: Sorry, Captain, but I can't do that.
PICARD: Damn it, Geordi, you're going to kill yourself.
LAFORGE: If I come back now, my mother and her entire crew will die.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I'm scanning for your ship. I'm not getting anything.
SILVA: We're still too far away.
LAFORGE: No, not really. I should be picking something up by now. I'm not finding anything. There's no warp funnel, no ship. There's nothing there.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Doctor, report.
CRUSHER: His neural synapses are overloading. He can't survive this.
PICARD: Geordi, what's happening to you?
LAFORGE: Reverse tractor beam.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
DATA (voiceover): Reversing tractor beam.
LAFORGE: What are you?
SILVA: You're killing us. We must go down.
PICARD (voiceover): Geordi?

[Laboratory]
PICARD: What's happening? Report.
LAFORGE: You're, you're trapped?
PICARD: Is there any way that we can disconnect him?
CRUSHER: If we take him off too abruptly, he'll go into neural shock.
LAFORGE: Caught on the ship?
PICARD: Reduce the input gradually, and still get him out before it's too late.
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you killed the Raman's crew?
DATA: Perhaps we could deceive his neural receptors.
PICARD: Deceive them?
DATA: By feeding them the sensory information recorded from his earlier experiences with the probe.
CRUSHER: We could disconnect the interface and still maintain the input levels.
DATA: We could then lower them in a controlled manner.
LAFORGE: What do you want?
PICARD: Like a decompression tank? Let's try it.
LAFORGE: Then, it was an accident? Captain, I have to take the ship into the lower atmosphere.
PICARD: Explain.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: As I understand it, when the Raman got close to the planet it accidentally picked up some lifeforms that live in the lower atmosphere.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Subspace beings of some kind. Intelligent. When the ship went back into a higher orbit, the beings were trapped.
PICARD: How do you know all this?
LAFORGE: One of them can communicate with me.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: It must have read my thoughts through the probe interface and took the form of my mother to try to talk me into taking the ship closer to the surface.
PICARD (voiceover): Are these beings

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Responsible for the death of the Raman's crew?
LAFORGE: Yes, but I don't think it was on purpose. They probably tried communicating with them the same way they're communicating with me, by directly accessing their thoughts. It must've been fatal to the crew. I guess the interface is what protected me.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I have to take them back, Captain. They can't survive so far up in the atmosphere. I'll turn the ship around and come back as soon as I'm

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Geordi, what's happening?
LAFORGE: The atmosphere is getting more turbulent. It's overloading the systems.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I'm having difficulty keeping the shields up.
SILVA: Geordi. We're safe now. Goodbye.
LAFORGE: I'm losing power.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Total shield failure in eight seconds.
PICARD: Can we switch the input?
CRUSHER: Almost.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: Shields are failing!

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Switching inputs.
PICARD: Is it working?
CRUSHER: His vital signs are stabilizing. He's going to make it.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have succeeded in disengaging Mister La Forge from the interface and are en route to Starbase four nine five.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You disobeyed my direct order. You put yourself in grave danger. I am not happy.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I take complete responsibility. Data was only
PICARD: I will deal with Mister Data at another time. Meanwhile, I will have to write this incident into your permanent record.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi? I'm very sorry that you didn't find your mother.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. You know, it was funny. When I was down there, it was so real. I felt like I had a chance to say goodbye.

[Cantina]
BARTENDER: So, tell me, why is it so important that you find this man?
TROI: We had business dealings. He owes me money.
BARTENDER: If we had business dealings, I can tell you that I wouldn't disappear.
TROI: Maybe we can discuss that possibility. But first, I have to find him, collect the money I'm owed.
BARTENDER: I'll be closing in a few hours. Perhaps we can discuss this more privately.
TROI: If I don't find him, I'm going to have to move on. Are you sure you haven't seen him?
BARTENDER: Human, about two meters tall, smooth-headed. No. I don't remember anyone like that.
TROI: You're lying.
BARTENDER: And you're a Betazoid. I thought so. Listen, people who come in here, they count on a certain amount of anonymity. And if I were to start answering questions about them, even to a very beautiful woman, well, I wouldn't be in business very long. And being a businesswoman, I'm sure you understand.
RIKER: Great story. I'll remember it next time I'm in a knife fight.
RIKER: Any luck?
WORF: I think the one over there knows something.
WORF: He would not admit to having seen the Captain, but he said that anyone who visited the ruins of Nafir would probably come here eventually. I suspect he knows more.
RIKER: Let's go.
WORF: Commander, I told
RIKER: My friend tells me you know about the man we're looking for.
YRANAC: The only reason I'm talking to you is that I have a sister, too.
WORF: I explained to him that we are looking for a man who impregnated your sister.
RIKER: So you can imagine how much this means to me.
YRANAC: Family honor is important. If someone had defiled my sister I would do anything, pay anything, to find the one responsible.
RIKER: And how much might anything be?
YRANAC: As much as five bars of gold-pressed latinum.
BARTENDER: I think you've had a little too much to drink. You'd better leave. On your way, Yranac.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, but I think he wants to stay. Sit down.
RIKER: This is my sister. She's angry. She's got a vicious temper. I wouldn't cross her.
BARTENDER: You say one word and you're a dead man.
YRANAC: Perhaps there's an element of risk here that I did not fully appreciate.
WORF: And how much more latinum will it take to offset this risk?
YRANAC: This isn't about latinum. As a man with a sister, a sister with a temper, I can sympathize with you, but, how did you come here? Do you have a ship in orbit?
RIKER: Yes.
YRANAC: Then take me with you. You can drop me anywhere.
RIKER: Agreed. Now talk.
YRANAC: The man you're looking for was here several weeks ago. There was a group of aliens sitting at this table. He was asking them questions.
WORF: Who were these aliens?
YRANAC: I don't know, but they looked dangerous. They attacked him. He managed to incapacitate three of them before he was knocked down. He was thrown against that wall and fell there.
CRUSHER: I'm picking up some Starfleet fiber traces and human cellular debris.
RIKER: Can you establish a DNA reading?
CRUSHER: There's something strange here. The cell structures are badly distorted. It's as if they've been exposed to some kind of high-energy field.
WORF: A weapon discharge?
CRUSHER: It could be. I'm picking up some faint traces of microcrystalline damage in the floor material, but I'm not familiar with the pattern I'm getting.
YRANAC: Who are you people?
RIKER: You didn't say anything about a weapon.
YRANAC: I hadn't finished yet. You'll like this. The man got what was coming to him. When they knocked him down, one of them took out a weapon and fired. He was vaporized.
TROI: He's telling the truth. Acting
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47135.2. Doctor Crusher has positively identified Captain Picard's DNA. There's no doubt now that he's dead.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come.
TROI: How are you doing?
RIKER: I'm all right.
TROI: The crew's pretty shaken up. I'm arranging a memorial. I think you should be the one to deliver the eulogy.
RIKER: I think you'd be better at something like that. Or Beverly. She knew him the longest.
TROI: I know it's not going to be easy, but I think it's important that we face up to what's happened. You're in command now. The crew's looking to you for guidance.
RIKER: You don't understand. I can't give the eulogy because I won't be at the service.
TROI: A memorial service helps to give everyone a sense of completion. Helps them begin the healing process.
RIKER: That's exactly the point. I don't want to heal.
TROI: Will.
RIKER: I've an open wound, right here. It hurts like hell. I don't want it to get better, and I don't want to pretend that everything's all right.
TROI: I know you're angry.
RIKER: You're damn right! And I intend to stay angry until I find whoever's responsible for the Captain's death.
TROI: That's pretty selfish of you. Do you think you're the only one in pain? Do you think you have the monopoly on loss? Well, let me tell you something. We're all hurting, and we're all angry. And whether you like it or not, you have a responsibility to this crew, and you can't just indulge your personal desire for revenge.
RIKER: That is enough, Counselor. Deanna. I'm sorry. This is not about revenge. This is about justice. The Captain died in a bar fight for nothing. Somebody has to answer for that. Then I can mourn.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, I am receiving a transmission from Admiral Chekote at Starbase two twenty seven.
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Sir.
CHEKOTE (screen): I read your report, Commander. My condolences to you and your crew. Captain Picard's death is a loss to the entire Federation. I see that you've asked to postpone your mission to the Argus sector. For what reason?
RIKER: I have a request, sir. I would like to conduct an investigation into Captain Picard's death.
CHEKOTE (screen): The Dessican authorities have jurisdiction in this case, Commander.
RIKER: I know that, sir. Frankly, I don't have much confidence in the authorities on Dessica Two. There's every reason to believe that they're corrupt.
CHEKOTE (screen): I suspect you're right. The question remains, are you the one to pursue this?
RIKER: The Captain's death hit me pretty hard, and I may not be completely objective, but there is no one who is more determined. I won't rest until I find out who's responsible.
CHEKOTE (screen): All right, Commander. I'm officially placing the Enterprise on detached duty. Your mission is at your discretion. Good luck.
RIKER: Thank you, sir.

[Yranac's quarters]
YRANAC: Ah, Commander Riker. I've been meaning to speak to you. I was wondering if you could move me to better quarters. I don't care much for the decor here.
RIKER: These are the best quarters we have. I was hoping now that you've had a chance to relax you might have remembered some of the details about the aliens you saw. Something you may have forgotten.
YRANAC: Sorry, my memory isn't what it used to be.
RIKER: They murdered a man in cold blood in full view of everyone in the bar and you can't remember anything about them?
YRANAC: Now that you mention it, I do remember one thing. They said they'd kill anyone who talked about what happened.
RIKER: Do you know where they went? So you know who they are and you know where I can find them.
YRANAC: Perhaps I do.
RIKER: What do you want?
YRANAC: Not a great deal, Commander. Just a shuttlecraft. I believe I'd like to travel for a while, see more of the galaxy. You understand.
RIKER: A shuttlecraft? Well, here's my offer. Instead of the ship, I'll give you some time.
YRANAC: Time?
RIKER: If you're lucky, you'll only spend the next five years in prison instead of the next twenty. You've got twelve outstanding arrest warrants for fraud and petty theft in the Klingon Empire. Tell me what you know, and I'll pull some strings. Maybe they'll reduce your sentence after you've been extradited.
YRANAC: If I tell you what I know, you must promise not to give me to the Klingons.
RIKER: I'll think about it.
YRANAC: Perhaps you could send me to a Federation rehabilitation colony instead.
RIKER: Talk.
YRANAC: The aliens were some kind of mercenary group. They've been operating in this sector for the last six months.
RIKER: Where do we find them?
YRANAC: I heard one of them mention the Barradas system. I think they were headed there.
RIKER: You think?
YRANAC: That's all I know.
RIKER: Riker to Data.
DATA (voiceover): Data here.
RIKER: Take us out of orbit. Set course for the Barradas system, warp six.
DATA (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Barradas Three is the only class M planet in this system, and it is listed as unpopulated. However, sensors have detected intermittent energy signals emanating from its surface.
RIKER: What's the source?
LAFORGE: The signals are difficult to localize, but they could be emissions from some kind of power converter.
WORF: Which could indicate a base or a ship.
RIKER: What else do we know about Barradas Three?
DATA: The planet was used as an outpost for the Debrune approximately two thousand years ago. The Federation's Archeological survey has catalogd numerous ruins on the surface.
RIKER: Mister Worf, I'd like a security detail to accompany the away team to the surface. I'll lead the team. Geordi, you're with me. Mister Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir. Commander, as Acting First Officer, I must question your decision to accompany the away team. If Captain Picard were here
RIKER: He's not.
DATA: I realize that, sir. But if he were, and he wanted to lead an away team, you would tell him that the Captain's place is
RIKER: On the Bridge. Not this time.

[Ruins]
RIKER: Ensign, you take that area.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: It's tough to get accurate sensor readings. There's an awful lot of interference in the area.
RIKER: From what?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure. It's very unlocalized. It could be atmospheric.
RIKER: What do you make of these?
LAFORGE: Well, these ruins around here are pretty ancient but I'd say that this indentation was made fairly recently. Could be the site of some battlefield.
RIKER: It doesn't look like any blast point I've ever seen. The shape is too perfect.
LAFORGE: Sir, there's microcrystalline damage all throughout this area. The same kind of pattern that Doctor Crusher picked up in the floor of that bar on Dessica Two.
WORF: Commander! I found something.
RIKER: Looks as if someone could have just dropped them.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise. We are under attack down here.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): I repeat, we are under attack.
GIUSTI: Commander, we've lost contact with the away team.
DATA: Is there a malfunction?
GIUSTI: No, sir. The comm. system is being jammed.
DATA: What is the source?
GIUSTI: Somewhere on the surface.
DATA: Bridge to Transporter room two. Can you get a lock on the away team?
CHIEF (voiceover): Negative, sir. There's too much interference.

[Ruins]
RIKER: I'm going to head for those trees over there. If I can get there, we might be able to set up a crossfire.
DATA (voiceover): Data to away team. Please respond.
LAFORGE: Data, we've been attacked.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): We've got one casualty and Commander Riker has been taken captive.

[Ruins]
WORF: Sir, the mercenaries have beamed away. They must have a base or a ship nearby. Can the sensors locate anything?

[Bridge]
GIUSTI: Commander, we're picking up a vessel leaving orbit.
DATA: Why was it not detected earlier?
GIUSTI: They could have been using the planet as a shield. Sir, they are powering up their weapon systems.
DATA: Raise shields. Red alert.
DATA: Damage report.
GIUSTI: Minor hit on the port deflector. No damage. They're running, sir. Their speed is warp eight point seven and holding. I think they're at their maximum.
DATA: Take us to warp nine and pursue. Lock phasers on target.
GIUSTI: Sir, we should be within phaser range in twenty three seconds. Switching to long-range scanners. Commander, the sensor image of that ship is extremely weak. It's fading. The ship doesn't register on the long-range sensors. I'm sorry, sir. We've lost them.
DATA: Increase the sensor field bandwidth. Patch in the lateral sensor arrays.
GIUSTI: It's no good, the signal's gone. It just disappeared.
DATA: Plot a course and take us back to Barradas Three. Notify the away team to prepare for transport.
GIUSTI: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Starfleet Intelligence confirms that a ship matching this configuration has been linked to raids on several other planets in this sector. For the short time it was within our visual range, we were able to take sensor readings of the mercenary vessel. It appears to be encased in an energy absorbing material. Although we can see the ship, this energy sheath renders it virtually undetectable to our long range sensors.
TROI: There must be some way we can track it.
LAFORGE: Data, I know this is a long shot, but if I remodulate the long range sensor array, I might be able to make it sensitive enough to detect the ship.
DATA: Without a full compositional analysis of the energy sheath, the chances of finding the correct remodulation sequence are remote.
WORF: Sir, they have taken Commander Riker. We must do something. We cannot just sit here.
DATA: On the contrary, Lieutenant. That is precisely what we must do. Since there are no viable alternatives, we will return to the surface and attempt to determine what these mercenaries are doing on this planet. An investigation might reveal some indication of their purpose. Please notify me when you have assembled your search teams. Dismissed.

[Mercenary Bridge]
BARAN: What's the problem?
NARIK: I warned you not to push the engines so hard. Two of the power shunts are on the verge of collapse. We'll be lucky if we can maintain warp six.
BARAN: How long will it take to repair?
NARIK: I can try to realign the warp core. It'll take at least eleven hours, but I'll have to shut the engines down completely.
BARAN: We're not stopping. We can't afford to be sitting helpless in space. I want warp eight available in five hours, and I don't want to hear your excuses.
BARAN: What were you doing on Barradas Three?
RIKER: William T. Riker, Commander, SC two three one dash four two seven.
BARAN: Oh really? Well, I am Arctus Baran and I don't have a number. Now what were you doing on Barradas Three, Commander?
RIKER: We were studying the ruins. It was a scientific expedition.
BARAN: Don't patronize me. Those ruins have been studied for centuries. There's nothing new to learn from them.
RIKER: Then what were you doing there?
BARAN: Don't bother, Commander, you can't remove it. It's a neural servo connected directly to your nervous system. It lets me control precisely how much pain you feel. This setting is usually sufficient. However, if necessary, it can go much higher. These devices were the idea of my predecessor. It's a convenient way of enforcing discipline.
RIKER: What happened to him?
BARAN: He failed to enforce it with me.
VEKOR: This is a waste of time, Baran. Get rid of him now.
BARAN: You should be more patient, Vekor. It might be rewarding. We will wait. Let the memory of his pain argue with him for a while. It might change his attitude.
NARIK: Vekor is right. We should get rid of him. It's dangerous to have someone from Starfleet on board.
BARAN: Dangerous? It might be profitable. A Starfleet Commander is a valuable hostage.
VEKOR: Starfleet won't negotiate with us, but they'll pursue us as long as we have him.
BARAN: This discussion is over. Get back to your post, Vekor.
PICARD: They're right, Baran, and you know it. I say kill him. Now.
PICARD: If he has nothing to give us, we should kill him now and be done with it. Everyone seems to recognize that fact except you.
BARAN: I don't need a consensus to run this ship, Galen.
BARAN: What's going on?
NARIK: I'm bypassing the aft plasma couplings. The power loss should only last for a few seconds.
BARAN: You should learn not to limit your options. Riker could be very useful to us in the future.
PICARD: He may not be as useful as you think, if this is the same Riker that I've heard about.
RIKER: And what Riker might that be?
PICARD: Commander of the Enterprise formerly assigned to the USS Hood.
RIKER: That's right.
PICARD: Then you must be the William T. Riker with a history of insubordination. He was even once relieved of duty, during the Cardassian incident at Minos Korva.
BARAN: How do you know all this?
PICARD: Look, I've been smuggling artifacts from Federation sites for years. You can't help developing a familiarity with certain Starfleet personnel. If we hadn't have captured him, he'd probably have ended up before a court martial.
RIKER: I've gotten out of them before.
PICARD: Look, he's no use to us. Finish him now. Let me do it for you.
TALLERA: Watch him.
VEKOR: We're accelerating.
BARAN: What have you done?
NARIK: It has nothing to do with my repairs. I think there's a malfunction in the engine's intermix chamber.
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is rising.
BARAN: Where's the malfunction?
NARIK: It could be one of any thirty subsystems. It'll take time to locate.
TALLERA: I don't think you're going to have the chance. Plasma pressure has reached critical levels.
BARAN: Seal off the intermix chamber.
VEKOR: I can't. The override sequence won't engage.
PICARD: The antimatter flow regulator is locked open.
TALLERA: Logic subsystems still not responding.
BARAN: Get out of the way.
TALLERA: Plasma pressure has exceeded maximum levels. Eight percent above critical and rising.
NARIK: We have to jettison the core.
BARAN: No, we'll be stranded here.
PICARD: The flow regulator is frozen.
RIKER: Let me do it. I've had a lot of experience with this sort of system failures. I might be able to do something.
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is eleven percent above critical. The containment fields are beginning to degrade.
BARAN: Go!
NARIK: Flow regulator is not responding to manual override. Containment fields won't hold much longer.
RIKER: Looks like you've got a control logic lockout in your regulator subsystem. I'm going to attempt to run an active bypass through the plasma flow convertor. You, start running phase-lock feedback through that regulator. I want about a six second delay.
NARIK: What are you saying? I don't take orders from you.
BARAN: You do as he says.
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is fourteen percent above critical.
BARAN: If you fail
RIKER: We'll all be dead anyway. Just need a few more seconds.
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is dropping. We're back into safe levels.
RIKER: If you want to make sure that doesn't happen again, you'd better re-initiate your regulator sub-compressors. A full diagnostic of your intermix chamber wouldn't hurt either.
BARAN: Do it. Put him in quarters for now.
RIKER: You still wish you'd killed me?

[Ruins]
WORF: The search teams have reported in. They found several archeological sites. Each one has been looted.
LAFORGE: It's possible that the microcrystalline damage I found in these indentations was the result of some kind of high energy transporter beam but I still don't understand. There's nothing here that's particularly valuable. Why would anyone want to steal any of these things?
DATA: Perhaps these artifacts have a special value to the Romulans.
WORF: The Romulans?
DATA: These structures were built by the Debrune. That race is an ancient offshoot of the Romulans. The ruins on the planet where Captain Picard was killed were also Romulan in origin.
WORF: The leader of the group that attacked us was Romulan. Perhaps they are controlling the mercenaries.
DATA: The question remains, why are they stealing these artifacts?

[Bridge]
DATA: There are several archeological sites in this sector containing ruins which are Romulan in origin. These are the locations that were attacked by the mercenary vessel.
LAFORGE: Looks like they did a pretty thorough job.
DATA: The only sites not been attacked were on Calder Two, Yadalla Prime, and Draken Four.
LAFORGE: Yadalla and Draken are at the far edge of the sector, but Calder Two? That's less than a day from here at maximum warp.
DATA: That would be their next likely target.
LAFORGE: According to this, there's a Federation outpost at Calder Two.
DATA: But it is only a small science station. It has limited defensive capabilities. I do not believe it could withstand an attack from the mercenary ship. Mister Worf. Send a message to the Federation outpost on Calder Two. Advise them that if a ship matching the mercenary vessel approaches, they should attempt to delay it until our arrival. Ensign, take us out of orbit. Set course for the Calder system. Warp nine.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.

[Riker's room]
PICARD: We don't have much time. It's good to see you, Will. I didn't expect to meet you here.
RIKER: I was looking to find the people who killed you on the surface. A witness said they saw you vaporized.
PICARD: These mercenaries use weapons that can activate their transporter. It gives them the opportunity to beam things quickly, just by firing at them. That's what they did to me.
RIKER: I don't understand any of this. Who are these people? What are you doing involved with them?
PICARD: The site that I wanted to study had been raided. A lot of the artifacts had been stolen. The site had been practically destroyed. I wanted to find out who was responsible. I tracked them to that bar on Dessica Two. I must have asked too many questions. They captured me. They wanted to find out how much I knew about their operation.
RIKER: And then you became part of their crew?
PICARD: I convinced them I was a smuggler, and that my name was Galen. I offered to help them appraise the artifacts that they had stolen. Will, these aren't common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artifacts from archeological sites throughout this sector. Baran has me analyzing each one if them for a particular particle signature. Will, they are looking for a specific artifact.
RIKER: Why?
PICARD: That's what we have to find out. Baran is the key. I think that he knows more about what we're really looking for than anyone else on this ship. I want you to get close to him. Try and get his confidence.
RIKER: That's why you set up the engine failure, because you knew that I'd be able to fix it.
PICARD: He also believes that you're a less than perfect Starfleet officer. Will, I want you to play into that role. Baran and I, well, he doesn't care very much for me, but he has to tolerate me because he needs my help with these artifacts. But if you and I become enemies, then there's a better chance of you and he becoming friends.
RIKER: All right. I'll do what I can.
BARAN: What are you doing here?
PICARD: Getting some answers, because you can't get him to talk.
BARAN: No one conducts an interrogation on this ship without my permission. Is that understood?

[Mercenary Bridge]
BARAN: Our next objective should prove an interesting challenge. We're headed for the Sakethan burial mounds on Calder Two.
PICARD: What? Calder Two isn't just another archeological site, you know. It's a Federation outpost there.
BARAN: I don't see that as a problem.
PICARD: It's defended by Starfleet. You don't think they're just going to stand by while we walk in there and take whatever we want.
BARAN: I'm familiar with the tactical situation.
VEKOR: What are their defenses?
BARAN: Nothing to worry about. They have a type four deflector shield protecting the outpost and the ruins.
PICARD: They also have a minimum of two phaser banks and possibly photon torpedoes. Is that enough to worry about?
TALLERA: How do you know so much about this outpost?
PICARD: Because I tried to smuggle a Sakethan glyph stone out of there nearly two years ago. I barely got away in one piece.
BARAN: Our weapons are more than a match for their defenses. I anticipate that we'll be able to destroy the outpost within fifteen minutes. Then we'll send in Tallera and the landing party to secure the relics.
PICARD: Why don't we use Riker? He's a Starfleet Commander. He could talk us past the outpost security without raising their suspicions. Then when their shields go down, we can beam the artifacts up here without ever leaving the ship.
VEKOR: Why would Riker help us? Just because he's out of favor with Starfleet doesn't mean that he's ready to betray them.
PICARD: If he doesn't help us, we'll have to destroy the outpost and kill everyone on it. He's still a Starfleet officer. He won't want to take innocent lives if he can possibly prevent it.
TALLERA: The last time we engaged Starfleet, we lost a man. We can't afford any more casualties. If we can avoid a battle, I think we should.
BARAN: All right, we'll try it. We'll be at Calder Two within five hours. You all know your duties. I want this ship prepared for battle, in case your plan doesn't work.

[Mercenary cargo hold]
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number four seven eight B. Access spectral analysis and begin scan, mode three.
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon particle decay profile does not fall within specified reference range. Probability of match zero point zero four percent.
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number three six nine B.
PICARD: Access spectral analysis, mode two, begin scan.
TALLERA: Baran wants to see the analysis of the last lot. He thinks you're moving a little slowly.
PICARD: You can tell Baran if he wants the analysis done faster, he can do it himself. If he wants it done correctly, he can wait.
TALLERA: Do you enjoy living dangerously, Galen? Baran can kill you in an instant if he activates his control device.
PICARD: I doubt that he'll do that. I've increased the accuracy of the identification process by a factor of ten. I'm the best person to analyze these artifacts. Baran knows that.
TALLERA: He may need you now, but I know Baran, and I can tell you he's not going to back down forever. You accomplish nothing by provoking him.
PICARD: I don't like operating in the dark. If I knew what the point of this mission were, why I was analyzing these relics.
TALLERA: If Baran felt it were wise to let the crew know that, I'm sure he would have.
PICARD: Do you know what all this is about?
TALLERA: What Baran knows, I know.
PICARD: Then what's going on here. Why are we risking our lives taking these artifacts? Who wants them?
TALLERA: I see no reason to tell you anything, but you can rest assured I don't necessarily share everything I know with Baran, either. This conversation, for example, will stay between us.
PICARD: You can tell Baran every word that I've said. He knows that I don't think much of him as a leader.
TALLERA: He's been in charge of this crew for a long time.
PICARD: Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't have that control device. The crew follow him because they have no choice. Baran's power is based on fear and intimidation.
TALLERA: That almost sounds like a prelude to mutiny.
PICARD: If someone were to challenge him, the rest of the crew would follow.
TALLERA: I was right. You do like living dangerously. I like you, Galen. I can tolerate a lot from someone like you, but only to a point. I intend to complete this mission successfully and get what's been promised me. If it looks as though you're getting in the way of that, I'll deal with you myself.

[Mercenary Bridge]
SANDERS (screen): Commander, no one is allowed on the surface without prior authorisation from the Federation Science Council.
RIKER: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant, but your outpost is in imminent danger of attack. I would like to station security personnel on the surface for your protection. Now, I'm ordering you to drop your shields.
SANDERS: I'm sorry, sir, but the regulations are very specific. I can't do it. If you'd like, you can remain in orbit until we contact the Science Council, but we're experiencing some communication difficulties right now, so that
BARAN: This isn't working. They're delaying on purpose. Someone has warned them. Charge main disruptor array. Destroy the outpost.
PICARD: No, there's no time for that! Starfleet will be here any minute.
BARAN: What are you doing?
PICARD: I'm configuring the disruptors to fire a phase resonant pulse. If I can hit their shield generator with precisely the right frequency, I should be able to take it out with one shot. Firing. Their shields are down.
BARAN: The artifacts should be located in several small structures arranged in staggered formations.
TALLERA: I'm scanning. I think I've found them.
BARAN: Lock coordinates and start bringing them up.
BARAN: There should be at least two more pieces down there.
TALLERA: I've lost transporter lock.
PICARD: They managed to get their shields back up.
BARAN: I need those artifacts. Lock all disruptors on target. This time I want that outpost destroyed.

[Bridge]
WORF: Direct hit on their aft deflectors. They are undamaged.
DATA: Ensign, scan for Starfleet combadge signals. Is Commander Riker aboard that ship?
GIUSTI: I can't tell, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate their hull.
DATA: Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
DATA: This is the Federation Starship Enterprise. You are ordered to stand down.

[Mercenary Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
BARAN: You sent them a message. You told them where to find us.
RIKER: That's ridiculous. When did I have a chance?
BARAN: This is set to kill. Order your ship to disengage. Activate visual.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander. Are you all right?

[Mercenary Bridge]
BARAN: Tell him!
RIKER: Mister Data, withdraw the Enterprise. That's an order.

[Bridge]
DATA: That is impossible, sir. The ship you are on has violated a Federation outpost. It is my duty to stop it.
RIKER (screen): I'm your commanding officer. I'm giving you a direct order. Understood?
DATA: Commander, if you could explain

[Mercenary Bridge]
RIKER: I've never explained my orders before. I'm not about to start now.
RIKER: I won't let him blow this ship into space. If I can set up a low level comm. link between the two ships, I can use my personal command codes. I can deactivate the shields.
BARAN: Do it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, we are receiving some kind of signal from the mercenary ship. These are Commander Riker's access codes. He is attempting to shut down our shields.
TROI: That doesn't make any sense. He knows those codes would have been changed as soon as he was captured.
DATA: That is correct, Counselor. He does know. Mister Worf, prepare to drop the shields.
WORF: Sir, we would be totally defenseless.
DATA: I am aware of that.
WORF: Sir, as soon as they see
DATA: Mister Worf, that is an order.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Mercenary Bridge]
RIKER: It worked. The shields are dropping.
BARAN: Fire. To Be Continued...
RIKER: My friend tells me you might know about the man we're looking for.
YRANEC: There was a group of aliens sitting at this table. He was asking them questions. One of them took out a weapon and fired. He was vaporised.
RIKER: This is about justice. The Captain died in a bar fight for nothing.
BARAN: Those ruins have been studied for centuries. There's nothing new to learn from them.
RIKER: Then what were you doing there?
PICARD: Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't have that control device.
TALLERA: That almost sounds like a prelude to mutiny.
PICARD: They captured me to find out how much I knew about their operation.
RIKER: Then you became a member of their crew?
PICARD: I convinced them I was a smuggler. Will, these are not common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artifacts from archeological sites throughout this sector.
DATA: Mister Worf, prepare to drop shields.
WORF: Sir, we would be totally defenseless.
DATA: I am aware of that.
BARAN: Fire. And now, the conclusion.

[Bridge]
WORF: Direct hit to the port nacelle. Only minimal damage. Hit to the starboard nacelle. Still, no appreciable damage.
TROI: Will must've done something to their weapons.
DATA: I believe you are right, Counselor. It is now up to us to play along. Release inertial dampers and cut power to decks thirty one through thirty seven.
GIUSTI: Aye, sir.
DATA: Set phasers to twenty five percent. Return fire.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Mercenary Bridge]
BARAN: Continue firing!
PICARD: I've lost three plasma relays on the disruptors. Auxiliary power is, is not available.
BARAN: Transfer weapons control to my station. There's a way to bypass the relays and feed power
NARIK: The antimatter containment units are starting to buckle!
TALLERA: The Enterprise has been badly damaged but they still have superior firepower. If we remain here, we will be destroyed. The logical course of action is to withdraw.
BARAN: We've done enough damage. Narik, set course one eight zero, mark two one five. Warp six. Initiate.

[Bridge]
GIUSTI: They're preparing to activate their warp drive, Commander.
WORF: Sir, we cannot be able to track them with our sensors if they go to warp. I can still disable them
DATA: I am aware of the tactical situation, Lieutenant. Let them go.
TROI: I've gone over every word, every inflection, every facial response, and I still can't find any kind of code or hidden message.
DATA: I agree the existence of such a message is remote, but I believe we should check.
TROI: I'll keep trying.
WORF: Two starships have been sent to intercept the mercenaries at Yadalla Prime and Draken Four, in case they attempt to attack those planets.
DATA: Inform Starfleet Command that we will hold this position until further notice.
WORF: So, we are just going to remain here?
DATA: Yes, but we will continue to pursue all avenues of investigation.
WORF: If we had not let them to escape, this would not be necessary.
DATA: That is correct. But I believe Commander Riker wanted us to let them escape.
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got something. I've been studying the comm. link Commander Riker used to transmit his command codes. I didn't see anything at first, but then I ran the transmission through a subharmonic analysis. I found this. It was sent by the same carrier wave as the command codes.
TROI: It might be the message we've been looking for.
DATA: Possibly. I will attempt to resequence the signal. Begin running a search for a decryption key.

[Mercenary Bridge]
NARIK: I'm taking the engines offline.
BARAN: How long will it take to repair our battle damage?
NARIK: It will take at least five hours to replace the antimatter containment unit.
BARAN: You have three hours, Narik. One minute beyond that and you'll answer for it with your life. I suppose I should thank you. None of us would be alive if it weren't for you.
RIKER: You're welcome.
PICARD: What's wrong, Commander? You having second thoughts about betraying your comrades? Because that's what you've done, betrayed them. Betrayed them in order to save yourself. You used to be just a second rate officer, now you're a traitor and a coward. How does that feel?
RIKER: I don't know. How did that feel?
BARAN: That's enough. Galen, go down to the cargo hold and check out those artifacts. Move.

[Mercenary Cargo hold]
PICARD: You can tell Baran that I'm working as fast as I can. What?
TALLERA: I'm trying to decide if you're incredibly stupid or incredibly smart. Why didn't you continue to fire on the Enterprise when their shields dropped?
PICARD: You were there. The disruptors lost power. Computer, reset for diagnostic of new sample. Begin scan.
TALLERA: I've watched you handle the weapon systems before. You know exactly how to bypass a problem like that. And why do you continue to argue with Riker? It should be obvious that by alienating Riker you also alienate Baran, and yet you continue to do so. Why?
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon profile negative.
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample and begin scan. Look this isn't a Romulan labor camp. I don't have to answer your questions. And I don't give a damn what you think.
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon profile positive. Ninety eight percent probability of match.
PICARD: Well, whatever it is we're looking for, it seems we've found it.
TALLERA: Tallera to Captain.
BARAN (voiceover): Yes, what is it?
TALLERA: I'm in the cargo hold. Galen's made a positive Terikon match on

[Baran's quarters]
TALLERA (voiceover): One of the artifacts.
BARAN: Good. Bring it to me immediately. Don't let anyone get near it.
TALLERA (voiceover): Understood. Tallera out.
RIKER: That sounds like good news.
BARAN: Very. It means we've completed half of what promises to be a very profitable mission. And even better than that, I'm almost ready to get rid of your friend Galen.
RIKER: Really?
BARAN: There's one more artifact to find. Once Galen confirms that it's genuine, his usefulness on this ship will come to a very sudden end.
RIKER: I can't say I'm sorry to hear that.
BARAN: Galen might be a loud mouthed fool, but sometimes he's quite perceptive. His observations about you, for instance.
RIKER: Oh?
BARAN: After what you did on Calder Two, I doubt if you have much of a future in Starfleet.
RIKER: Yes, I must say I've come to the same conclusion.
BARAN: Well, assuming that you were not my prisoner, what would you do now?
RIKER: I guess I'd start looking for a new career. There must be a place where someone with fifteen years of Starfleet technical knowledge would be useful. You wouldn't happen to know a place like that?
BARAN: Well, possibly. However, there's one thing that I have learned on this ship, and that's to be cautious and never to blindly embrace what might appear to be good fortune. And right now, you're a rather large stroke of good luck.
RIKER: I haven't exactly sworn my undying allegiance to you either, Baran. For instance, I'd like to know a little bit more about the job.
BARAN: Such as?
RIKER: Such as what you meant by a very profitable mission.
BARAN: Well, it's enough to know right now that your share will ensure a very wealthy and long life far from the Federation.
RIKER: Sounds promising.
BARAN: It is, only you're going to have to earn it. And you can start by putting aside your dislike for Galen and becoming his friend.
RIKER: Why?
BARAN: Galen has allies on this ship. They could cause trouble if I decide to kill him. I want you to find out from him who they are.
RIKER: Okay.
BARAN: One more thing, Riker. When the time comes, I want you to kill Galen.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have completed my analysis of the signal from the mercenary ship. I believe these groupings represent bearings and coordinates taken from their navigational system.
LAFORGE: So you think this is their flight plan?
DATA: Yes. If I am correct, the mercenary ship is heading toward these coordinates in the Hyralan Sector.
WORF: Their maximum speed is warp eight point seven. It will take them at least fourteen hours to reach that position.
LAFORGE: We could be there in five.
DATA: Make it so.
WORF: Finally. Set course for the Hyralan Sector and engage at warp nine.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
DATA: Lieutenant, may I see you in the ready room?
WORF: Of course.

[Ready room]
DATA: Lieutenant, I am dissatisfied with your performance as First Officer.
WORF: May I ask in what way?
DATA: You continually question my orders in front of the crew. I do not believe this is appropriate behavior.
WORF: With all due respect, sir, I have always felt free to voice my opinions even when they differ from those of Captain Picard or Commander Riker.
DATA: That is true. But in those situations, you were acting as Head of Security, not as First Officer. The primary role of the second in command is to carry out the decisions of the Captain in this case, me.
WORF: But is it not my duty to offer you alternatives?
DATA: Yes. But once I have made a decision, it is your job to carry it out regardless of how you may personally feel. Any further objections should be given to me in private, not in front of the crew. I do not recall Commander Riker ever publicly showing irritation with his Captain as you did a moment ago.
WORF: No, sir.
DATA: If you do not feel capable of carrying out this role, I will assign it to Commander La Forge and return you to Tactical. I would not enter it into your record as a reprimand, simply as a transfer.
WORF: I would prefer to remain at my current post.
DATA: Then I expect you to conform to the guidelines I have laid out.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Dismissed. Mister Worf, I am sorry if I have ended our friendship.
WORF: Sir, it is I who has jeopardized our friendship, not you. If you will overlook this incident, I would like to continue to consider you my friend.
DATA: I would like that as well.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's room]
RIKER: Good to see you, too.
PICARD: I've had some unpleasant surprises. Will, this isn't a good idea. Baran might grow suspicious.
RIKER: As a matter of fact, it was Baran who sent me here. He told me to pretend to be friendly with you and help you organize a mutiny, so he can determine who your supporters in the crew and then eliminate them.
PICARD: What a tangled web we weave. I have difficulty remembering whose side I'm on. So, what have you been able to find out?
RIKER: When we reach the Hyralan Sector, we're supposed to rendezvous with a Klingon transport ship. I'm not sure, but I think they may be delivering another of the Romulan artifacts to us.
PICARD: A second artifact? Oh, by the way, that first artifacts is not Romulan. It's Vulcan.
RIKER: Vulcan?
PICARD: I have been looking over the glyphs and pictograms from the Calder Two artifact. And although I don't have enough data to translate all the inscriptions, the alphabet and symbology is much more consistent with early Vulcan than Romulan.
RIKER: Do these artifacts have some religious or cultural significance, something that would make them valuable enough to kill for?
PICARD: I don't know. If I could just get access to the Enterprise computer just for a few moments. So, what will Baran do once he's obtained the second artifact?
RIKER: You're supposed to verify its authenticity, and then I'm supposed to kill you, and I take your place.
PICARD: Will, you always seem to be after my job. Well, as soon as Baran feels that I've outlived my usefulness, he can kill me simply by using the neural servo. So, I think we had better start planning a mutiny.

[Mercenary Cargo hold]
PICARD: We need a new captain and I've come to one inescapable conclusion
NARIK: I agree. But I don't think that's you.
PICARD: Oh?
NARIK: I don't trust you, Galen. I don't think the rest of the crew does either. They're not going to follow you.
PICARD: Then who will they follow? You?
NARIK: No, but they will follow Tallera and so will I.
TALLERA: Who are you?
PICARD: What?
TALLERA: You're no smuggler and I don't think your name's Galen. You will tell me who you really are and what you are doing on this ship or I will kill you right here.
PICARD: What are you talking about?
TALLERA: I will not play games with you. I found the message you sent to the Enterprise. When Riker was using his command codes to drop their shields, you sent them a transmission on the same carrier wave. You're a Starfleet officer. Do not deny it. It is the only logical conclusion. My name is actually T'Paal, and I am a member of the V'Shar.
PICARD: Vulcan Security?
TALLERA: That is correct. I infiltrated this ship a year ago posing as a Romulan mercenary. I'm here to investigate a possible threat to Vulcan.
PICARD: What sort of threat?
TALLERA: First things first, Galen. Who are you?
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise.
TALLERA: Very well. To answer your question, for several years now, there has been a small but growing movement of extreme isolationists on Vulcan. A group that believes contact with alien races has polluted our culture and is destroying Vulcan purity. This group advocates the total isolation of Vulcan from the rest of the galaxy and the eradication of all alien influences from our planet.
PICARD: That sounds like an illogical philosophy.
TALLERA: Agreed. But extremists often have a logic all their own.
PICARD: Tell me, Tallera, what are these artifacts we've been collecting? I know that they are Vulcan in origin.
TALLERA: I am sure you are familiar with the ancient history of my people, before we found logic, before we found peace.
PICARD: You were much as my people once were. Savage, warlike.
TALLERA: There was even a time when we used our telepathic abilities as a weapon. A time when we learned to kill with a thought.
PICARD: The Stone of Gol!
TALLERA: You know of it?
PICARD: I know the story from Vulcan mythology.
TALLERA: The Stone of Gol is real, but there is nothing supernatural or magical about it. It is a psionic resonator, a device which focuses and amplifies telepathic energy. It is one of the most devastating weapons ever conceived.
PICARD: But according to the legend, the Stone was destroyed by the gods when the Vulcan people found the way to peace.
TALLERA: The resonator was believed to have been destroyed during the Time of the Awakening. Only one piece is known to have survived and it was placed in a Vulcan museum under heavy guard. A year ago, that piece was stolen from the museum. Soon after, mercenary ships began raiding archeological sites across the quadrant. We believe a member of the isolationist movement is attempting to reassemble the resonator.
PICARD: A telepathic weapon.
TALLERA: My orders are to find that assassin and stop him.
PICARD: It would seem that Baran has to deliver these artifacts to the assassin in order to get paid. Therefore, you and I should continue our masquerade.
TALLERA: Agreed. But Captain, I cannot allow the resonator to be assembled. If necessary, I will destroy this ship, its crew, all of us to prevent that from happening. Acting
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47160.1. The Enterprise is entering the Hyralan Sector, which I believe to be the next destination of the mercenary ship.

[Bridge]
GIUSTI: I'm picking up a small vessel bearing one two seven mark three three five.
DATA: Is it the mercenary ship?
GIUSTI: No, sir. It's a Klingon ship.
WORF: A Toron class shuttlecraft. One person.
DATA: Open a channel. This is Lieutenant Commander Data of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
KORAL (screen): Koral.
DATA: I take it that is your name? May I inquire as to your destination?
KORAL (screen): No.
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your journey?
KORAL (screen): No.
DATA: Perhaps I have not made our intentions clear. We are investigating
DATA: He seems most uncooperative.
TROI: He may have been curt, but he was also very worried and even a little scared.
WORF: Sir, may I recommend that we bring the shuttle aboard with our tractor beam, search it, and interrogate Koral.
DATA: According to the terms of the Klingon-Federation Treaty, Koral has every right to free transit through Federation space. We cannot board or search his vessel without cause.
WORF: Yes, sir. However, the Treaty does give us the right to conduct health and safety inspections of any ship in our space.
TROI: Health and safety inspections?
DATA: I am not sure that using this clause as an excuse to conduct a search would be consistent with the spirit of the Treaty.
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: However, if Koral wishes to contest our actions he can file a protest with the Judge Advocate General's office. Bring the shuttle aboard. Then you and Doctor Crusher can begin the inspection.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlebay]
CRUSHER: Hello. I'm Doctor Crusher, and this is Lieutenant Worf. We're here to conduct a health and safety inspection of your ship.
KORAL: Health and safety inspection?
CRUSHER: That's right. You know, radiation leaks, biochemical contamination, other health hazards. Excuse me.
CRUSHER: Well, no radiation so far. I'm sure you're glad to hear that. Right.

[Mercenary Bridge]
VEKOR: There's an incoming message. It's from the Klingon shuttle. It was sent approximately fifteen minutes ago. He's at the rendezvous coordinates but he's been detained by the Enterprise. That's all there is. He's stopped transmitting.
BARAN: The Enterprise.
PICARD: How could they have found out about the rendezvous, Commander?
BARAN: Quiet! All that matters now is that the Enterprise has the second artifact in their possession. We don't have a choice. We'll have to board the Enterprise and take the artifact.
PICARD: Do you have any idea how many security officers there are on board a ship like that?
BARAN: No, I don't. But he does.
RIKER: I could get us on the Enterprise. I can find the artifact.
PICARD: Oh, yes, very convenient. We beam you back aboard your old ship and we have to take a risk that you won't change your mind and betray us.
RIKER: I have saved your life twice already, Galen. I would think you'd begin to show some gratitude by now.
BARAN: Galen, if you're so worried about Riker, then you can go on the raiding party and watch him.
PICARD: Agreed.
BARAN: Draw weapons and equipment for a raiding party of five.
BARAN: If you're thinking of betraying us to your friends on the Enterprise, you might remember that I still have the ability to kill you at the first sign of trouble.
RIKER: I haven't forgotten.
BARAN: I have an additional task for you, one that will prove your loyalty. This raid is an opportunity to get rid of Galen. Once you've found that artifact, kill him.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I'm sure the health and safety inspection won't last much longer. And in the meantime, I'm really glad that we have this opportunity to get to know you. May I ask what business you're in?
DATA: Lieutenant Worf has programmed our replicators to make a very good approximation of Klingon bloodwine. I believe you will find it to your liking.

[Shuttlebay]
CRUSHER: Well, that's my third scan and I still haven't find anything out of the ordinary.
WORF: He must be hiding something. We should download his computer memory and analyze it.
CRUSHER: I'd have a hard time defending that as part of a safety inspection.
WORF: We could claim that the computer was generating abnormal radiation signatures.
CRUSHER: Worf, we're on pretty shaky ground as it is. We can't just
PICARD: Don't!
RIKER: Watch that door.
WORF: What is going on?
NARIK: Shut your mouth, Klingon.
RIKER: I guess you're surprised to see me, Doctor.
CRUSHER: You could say that.
RIKER: I've had a change of profession.
PICARD: It's not in here. Hey, you, where's the artifact?
WORF: I do not know what you're talking about.
RIKER: Use your brain. They wouldn't be searching the shuttle if they had the artifact. Koral must have it. Where is that Klingon pilot?
CRUSHER: In the Observation lounge with Data and Troi.
NARIK: How far?
RIKER: Twelve decks away.
WORF: Security will not allow you to get that far.
RIKER: They won't get the chance. We'll use the transporter in that shuttle. We'll beam directly to the Observation lounge. Sorry about this.
RIKER: Let's go.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: If you could tell us something about the nature of your mission.
KORAL: What is this?
RIKER: Quiet! Does he have it?
PICARD: This is it.
NARIK: Are you sure, Galen?
PICARD: Yes, I can recognize the inscription pattern from the first artifact.
DATA: Commander Riker, by taking this action you risk charges of assault, theft, piracy, and treason.
RIKER: Really? Then I guess adding one more charge wouldn't hurt.
PICARD: Is he dead?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Good. Activate the transporter.
DATA: Security alert. Medical emergency team to the Observation lounge. Data to Bridge. Raise shields and begin sensor sweeps for the mercenary ship.
GIUSTI (voiceover): Aye, sir.
TROI: He's all right. He's only stunned.
DATA: I must admit, I am experiencing a similar sensation.
RIKER: This is going to take a little time to explain.

[Mercenary Bridge]
BARAN: Set course three one zero mark two one five, warp six.
BARAN: Where is it?
PICARD: I have something else for you, Baran.
PICARD: Tell him what happened, Narik.
NARIK: Riker turned on us. He tried to kill Galen before we beamed back.
PICARD: He might have killed all of us. And I believe he was acting under direct orders, Baran. You betrayed us. This has gone far enough. I think it is time that we had a new commander. Someone who will lead us to those profits that we've been promised.
BARAN: Oh, really? And who would that be, Galen? You? He's plotted this all along, opposed me at every turn, endangered all of us by refusing to follow his orders.
PICARD: Follow your orders? The orders of a small man trying to fill a role too big for him. I say it's time for a change. Who's with me?
PICARD: It's over, Baran.
BARAN: Not quite. As long as I have this, I'm still Captain of this ship.
PICARD: You can't kill all of us. You need us to run the ship more than we need you to command it.
BARAN: I don't have to kill you all. Just you, Galen.
TALLERA: What happened?
PICARD: I switched the transponder codes. Given his feelings about me, it seemed a sensible thing to do.
TALLERA: Baran was nothing. We have a mission to complete and the crew needs a leader.
PICARD: There'll be no more punishment on this ship. Now, do your duties and I'll see to it that we complete our mission and get our payment.
TALLERA: Remove that.
VEKOR: Orders?
PICARD: Maintain our present course and speed for now. I'm going to find out when and where we're supposed to deliver our cargo.
VEKOR: Aye, Captain.

[Ready room]
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Commander Riker. Minister Satok of Vulcan Security is standing by on a secure channel.
RIKER: Put it through in here.
SATOK (screen): Greetings, Commander. How may I be of service?
RIKER: Minister, I thought I should let you know that the mercenary ship which has been raiding planets in the Taugan sector is probably on its way to Vulcan right now.
SATOK (screen): I do not understand.
RIKER: I'm sorry. It's been a difficult couple of days. I know that one of your operatives has been on a mercenary ship investigating the possible re-assembly of a psionic resonator. I didn't want someone to make a mistake and start firing at them when they approach your planet.
SATOK: Commander, I believe there is a problem. We have no operative aboard a mercenary ship.

[Baran's quarters]
PICARD: According to Baran's logs, we are to deliver the two pieces to the T'Karath Sanctuary on Vulcan.
TALLERA: I know that place. It was an underground stronghold for one of the factions during the last civil war. It's been abandoned for centuries.
PICARD: Galen to Bridge. Alter course for Vulcan.
VEKOR (voiceover): Understood.
PICARD: Oh, I wonder if you can possibly help me with something. I have been able to translate most of the writing on these two pieces For the most part, they're warnings of death and destruction to anyone who opposes the resonator, but I am not able to determine what appears on the anterior side. For example, this symbol represents the Vulcan god of war and this is the god of death, but if you look really carefully, you can see a third symbol missing. Now that obviously should belong to the final piece. Now what's odd about this is that the gods of death and war would typically always stand alone on an artifact. They would never be combined with a third glyph.
TALLERA: Fascinating. But I am not an archeological expert.
PICARD: I'm really anxious to see the final artifact, because it might provide a valuable insight into Vulcan mythology.
TALLERA: When we arrive at Vulcan, I will take these pieces to a secure holding area before going on to the Sanctuary. I prefer to go alone. It will arouse less suspicion on the part of the isolationists.
PICARD: Well there should be no problem about our entering orbit. I asked Commander Riker to contact the Vulcan authorities from the Enterprise and let them know that we were approaching.
TALLERA: Why did you do that?
PICARD: Well, I didn't want to risk a misunderstanding. Someone might have mistaken this for an actual raid.
TALLERA: It was a wise precaution.
PICARD: Perhaps I should contact the Enterprise, have them meet us at Vulcan just in case these isolationists try to escape.
TALLERA: Your offer is appreciated but our security forces are more than adequate.
PICARD: I see. Do you think it's wise for you to go there alone? After all, they were expecting Baran to show up. Don't you think if I were to accompany you, it might seem more plausible.
TALLERA: Captain, I do understand your human emotional need to be there at the final moment, but this is a Vulcan matter.
PICARD: Of course.
TALLERA: Thank you.

[Mercenary Bridge]
VEKOR: We have entered orbit of Vulcan.
PICARD: Tallera, I've decided on a change of plan. Take one of the artifacts with you. Leave the other here. As soon as we have our payment in full, we'll complete the delivery.
TALLERA: That was not the agreement.
PICARD: I realize that. But it's safer for all concerned to leave one behind.
TALLERA: They will not pay us until they get both pieces.
PICARD: They've been waiting a long time for this. They're not going to take any risks. Now, take one of the artifacts and beam down.
TALLERA: That is all I was waiting for. Go to the navigational computer and check file one three seven slash omega. You'll find a message secretly transmitted to the Enterprise, containing our entire flight plan.
VEKOR: She's right.
TALLERA: The message was sent by Galen. He's a Starfleet officer.
PICARD: Tallera is right. But what she's not telling you is that those artifacts she's holding are part of an incredibly powerful weapon. There's no reward waiting for you down on the surface. As soon as she's got those artifacts, she'll leave you behind to be captured by Starfleet.
VEKOR: I don't care what it is you want, Tallera. I don't care if that's a weapon for your personal use or if you're really just making a delivery as planned. All I care about is my money. So I propose a compromise. Narik and I will go with you to the surface to guarantee that we receive our payment.
NARIK: After that, you can go anywhere you want.
TALLERA: Agreed. Bring him as well. We'll use him as a hostage if Starfleet arrives. If not, we'll kill him on the surface.

[T'Kareth sanctuary]
TALLERA: There. Your reward, as promised.
NARIK: Is it all there?
VEKOR: No, this is less than half of what we were promised. Where's the rest of it?
TALLERA: That is all I could manage. I suggest you take it and leave.
NARIK: I did not come this far to be cheated. I want it all, now.
TALLERA: Very well. You will get what you deserve.
TALLERA: Go ahead, Captain. Pick up the phaser. See what good it will do.
PICARD: You'll never get away with this. Starfleet will never stand and watch you tear apart one of the founding worlds of the Federation.
TALLERA: How little you understand what you're facing, Captain. You're used to fighting enemies like yourself. People on ships with defense shields, energy weapons, warp drives. But this is unlike anything you've ever faced. This is the power of the mind. Pick up the phaser, Captain.
PICARD: Listen to me, all of you! Drop your weapons! Do it! Don't make any aggressive movements. The resonator amplifies violent feelings and emotions. And that's why you wanted me to pick up the phaser. That's how you were able to kill Narik and Vekor. But I can see the symbol on that third artifact, and it is the Vulcan symbol for peace standing between the symbols for war and death. It's a warning that the power of the resonator can be overcome by peace.
TALLERA: You are about to see how wrong you are.
PICARD: Empty your minds of violent thoughts.
TALLERA: No!
PICARD: Think, Tallera. Two thousand years ago your people were being consumed by war. But when peace came to Vulcan, the resonator became useless. That's why it was dismantled.
PICARD: You were right, Tallera. The resonator cannot be stopped by phasers and shields, but it can be defeated by peace.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47169.2. Security Minister Satok has taken Tallera into custody and begun a search for the rest of the isolationists.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Once we realized that you were no longer on the mercenary ship, we scanned the surface for your neural implant. We tracked the signal into the caverns.
DATA: What will become of the resonator, sir?
PICARD: Satok has assured me that all three pieces will be destroyed.
DATA: It is unfortunate it cannot be studied. The resonator is a key artifact from a remarkable period of history.
PICARD: Normally, I would be the first one to agree, but perhaps some things best left in the past.
RIKER: What's going to happen to the mercenaries?
PICARD: Oh, they will be detained by the Vulcan authorities for the moment. But they're also facing charges from the Klingons, the Cardassians, the Ferengi, and at least seven other worlds. I don't think we'll be hearing from them for a while. Number One, will you set course for Starbase two twenty seven. I'll join you on the Bridge shortly.
RIKER: Wait a minute. You've been declared dead. You can't give orders around here.
DATA: If we are to adhere to the exact letter of Starfleet regulations, then technically, sir, you have been declared a renegade. In fact, I believe you are facing twelve counts of court martial offenses. You cannot give orders either, sir.
PICARD: That's quite right. And as I'm supposed to be dead, I'll go and get some sleep. And, Mister Data, I suggest that you escort Commander Riker to the brig.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: This way, sir.
RIKER: Data, he was joking. You know that, right? Data?

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Data, there you are. We need to install that plasma conduit right away. We're bringing the new warp core on line in less than three hours.
DATA: I will go to deck twenty and begin modifications.
LAFORGE: Great. I'll meet you in Engineering as soon as you're finished there. This ought to be a lot of fun.
DATA: Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area? You are dismantling a warp plasma conduit. I must ask you to stop.
WORKMAN: Be quiet!

[Data's quarters]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47225.7. Commander La Forge has completed the installation of our new warp core. We are preparing to test its capabilities.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Something wrong, sir?
PICARD: I just got a message from Starfleet command.
RIKER: Bad news?
PICARD: You could say that. I've been invited to the annual Starfleet Admiral's banquet.
RIKER: My condolences.
PICARD: I've managed to avoid it for the past six years, but now it would seem my luck has run out. I can't think of anything more tedious. Fifty Admirals shaking hands, making dull conversation, uninteresting food, boring speeches.
RIKER: Can't you think of some excuse to get out of it?
PICARD: After six years, Number One, I don't think I have any excuses left.

[Engineering]
DATA: Geordi, have you ever had a nightmare?
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure, Data. Everybody does from time to time.
DATA: I have had one hundred eleven dreams since I first discovered this program nine months ago. In all of that time, I have never experienced such strange and disturbing imagery. I believe it was a nightmare.
LAFORGE: Nightmares are part of dreaming, Data. Maybe you've just discovered another new level to your program.
DATA: Perhaps. I have also noted that I am spending an inordinate amount of time thinking about nightmare imagery. One could almost say I am preoccupied.
LAFORGE: Well, it's perfectly normal, Data. Sometimes when I have a nightmare, I can't shake that weird feeling for a couple of days.
TYLER: Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: Speaking of nightmares.
TYLER: I just finished recalibrating the starboard EPS module.
LAFORGE: That's great, Ensign. Thank you.
TYLER: It's just like you said. Reset the power tap and the module came right online. You have such a wonderful grasp of engineering principles. I'm learning so much just by being around you.
LAFORGE: I'll tell you what. Why don't you help Farrell check the deuterium cartridges. I'm just about to bring the warp core online. All right?
TYLER: Anything you say.
DATA: Geordi, you do not seem to appreciate Ensign Tyler's enthusiasm.
LAFORGE: She's enthusiastic all right. About me.
DATA: I do not understand.
LAFORGE: She's got a crush on me, Data.
DATA: You do not share her affection?
LAFORGE: Exactly. And quite frankly, it's beginning to get a little bit uncomfortable.
DATA: I believe I understand. You are concerned about unintentionally hurting Ensign Tyler's feelings.
LAFORGE: Yeah, something like that.
DATA: It would appear that you require a third party to intervene on your behalf. I will be happy to speak to her.
LAFORGE: No, Data! I'll take care of it myself. Thanks.
DATA: Geordi, when I first awoke from my nightmare, there was a brief moment when I
PICARD (voiceover): Bridge to Commander La Forge. What's our status?
LAFORGE: We're ready to bring the new core online, Captain. Stand by. All right, let's do it. Initializing deuterium infusion sequence. It's a thing of beauty, isn't it? Now let's see how fast she can run. La Forge to Bridge.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Warp power at your discretion, Captain.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign Gates, set course for Starbase two nineteen, warp six. Engage.
PICARD: Engage. Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, why isn't my ship

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Moving?
LAFORGE: I'm on it, sir. There's a warp plasma conduit out of alignment, but I think I've got it fixed now. Ready, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. Ensign Gates?
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Stand by, Captain.
DATA: Captain, I am taking the warp-coil engines offline.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. I'm sorry, sir, but we're going to have to reconfigure this plasma conduit. It's going to take at least a couple of hours, sir.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
TROI: Hello, Data.
DATA: Counselor.
TROI: What are you doing?
DATA: I have been watching Spot sleep. In the past fifteen minutes, he has had twelve muscles spasms, which indicates he was dreaming. I have often wondered what Spot dreams about. His twitching and his rapid breathing would seem to suggest anxiety, but Spot has never seen a mouse or any other form of rodentia. He has never encountered an insect, or been chased by a canine.
TROI: I understand you've had some interesting dreams recently. Geordi was worried about you and he wanted me to check in and see how you were doing.
DATA: That was very thoughtful of him. I've been debating whether or not to initiate another dream sequence.
TROI: Because of the nightmares?
DATA: I have found them to be quite unsettling.
TROI: Data, you shouldn't be afraid of dark imagery in your dreams. It's a natural expression of your unconscious, if you have an unconscious. I'm not really sure how your positronic brain works but if it's anything like ours, then there's part of you that's trying to express itself through your dream state. And I think you should allow yourself to experience it. As Sigmund Freud said, dreams are the royal road to the knowledge of the mind.
DATA: Thank you, Counselor. I believe I will initiate a dream program now.
TROI: Let me know how it goes. Goodnight, Data.
DATA: Goodnight, Counselor. Goodnight, Spot.
DATA: Computer, dim lights.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Mmm. Delicious.
DATA: What kind of cake are you eating?
WORF: It is cellular peptide cake with mint frosting. Would you like a bite?
DATA: No, thank you. Excuse me, Mister Worf.
RIKER: Aren't you going to answer that, Mister Data?
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: That damn ringing. Answer it, will you?
DATA: Yes, sir.
DATA: Please identify yourselves. I must know what you are trying to
WORKMAN: Be quiet!
TROI: Please, don't hurt me, Data.
DATA: I am sorry, Counselor.
TROI: No! Don't! No! No! Data!

[Data's quarters]
TROI: Data! Data!
DATA: What is wrong?
TROI: We've been trying to wake you up for the last five minutes.
LAFORGE: When you didn't show up on time in Engineering, I got worried.
DATA: My internal chronometer was supposed to wake me thirty five minutes ago.
WORF: You must have overslept.
DATA: That is not possible. Something is wrong.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't find anything wrong with your internal time base. As far as I can tell, your primary systems check out fine.
DATA: I will compare my autonomic logs with the ship's chronometer. Perhaps we have overlooked something.
LAFORGE: You know, Data, there's an awful lot we don't know about your dream program. Maybe it was designed to cause side effects. I mean, for all we know, Doctor Soong might have intended for you to oversleep from time to time. It's part of the human experience.
DATA: It is a possibility. However, I would prefer to make certain there are no anomalies in my neural net.
LAFORGE: You know, I'm curious. What were you dreaming about when we woke you up?
DATA: I have not fully assimilated its impact. I would prefer to study the images further before discussing them.
LAFORGE: Sounds like it must have been pretty strange.
DATA: Strange is not a sufficient adjective to describe the experience.

[Holodeck - Freud's consulting room]
FREUD: Tell me more about this cake.
DATA: It is difficult to explain. Counselor Troi's body was a cake.
FREUD: Her upper body. Describe the knife you used to cut the Counselor.
DATA: It had a black handle and a serrated blade, and it was quite long.
FREUD: How long?
DATA: Twenty five centimeters in length.
FREUD: And what happened next?
DATA: One of the workmen pointed to her right shoulder. At that moment, I had an overwhelming urge to cut a piece out of the cake.
FREUD: And did you?
DATA: Yes. As I began slicing the cake, she reacted as though I was causing her pain. Yet I could not stop cutting. That is when I woke up. Doctor Freud, I am curious.
DATA: I am curious. What do my nightmares mean?
FREUD: I believe you are experiencing a classic dismemberment dream. Or in your case, being a mechanical man, a dismantlement dream.
DATA: I do not understand.
FREUD: Your mechanistic qualities are trying to reassert themselves over your human tendencies. Ego and id struggling for domination. The workmen symbolize the ever present id constantly working to destroy the ego. Now the image of Counselor Troi, a female, is devoured by you, clearly indicating an unconscious desire to possess your own mother.
DATA: But I do not have a mother.
FREUD: Do not interrupt. The knife in its violent connotation suggests a certain feeling of sexual inadequacy.
DATA: But I have no sexual desire.
FREUD: Ach! Impotence on top of everything. It is all becoming clear to me now. There might be a paper in this.
DATA: I do not believe I am being helped by this session.
FREUD: Classic transference. Your anger toward me is, in fact, the animosity you feel toward your father. You are a polymorphously perverse individual, Mister Data, and I recommend full psychoanalysis. I believe I can fit you in next Tuesday.
DATA: That will not be necessary. Computer, end program.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, incoming message from Admiral Nakamura.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Admiral.
NAKAMURA (screen): Captain. We were expecting you this morning. Is there a problem?
PICARD: Actually, we have been experiencing a few minor difficulties with our new warp core, but my Chief Engineer assures me that we will be under way within the hour.
NAKAMURA (screen): You're not trying to avoid this particular engagement, are you, Picard?
PICARD: No, no, certainly not. I'm really looking forward to it.
NAKAMURA (screen): Good. I'll expect you soon. Nakamura out.
RIKER: I think he's on to you, sir.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've just started it up, Captain. All systems are holding steady.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): Ready when you are, sir.
PICARD: Ensign Gates, set a course and engage.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Engineering, report.
DATA: The warp field has collapsed, sir.
LAFORGE: It looks like we've blown the entire power converter, Captain. Impulse engines are down too. We're not going anywhere. But I know just how to fix this. Give me two, three hours, tops.
LAFORGE: Now what?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Talk about going nowhere fast.
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to Starbase two nineteen. Advise Admiral Nakamura I'll be a little later than I thought.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Tyler, how're you coming with that relay diagnostic?
TYLER: Almost done, sir. Excuse me I need the plasma inverter.
DATA: It appears Ensign Tyler still has a crush on you. It is clear you did not speak to her.
LAFORGE: No, Data, I haven't had the time. Listen, I want you to take this brace coil and run a metallurgical scan on it for me. See if there are any microfractures.
LAFORGE: Something wrong, Data?
DATA: I am reminded of a recent dream. This brace is reminiscent of
RIKER: Are you going to answer that, Commander?
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Answer it.
DATA: Hello?
FREUD (voiceover): Kill them. You must kill them all before it's too late.
LAFORGE: Data. Data, what's wrong?
DATA: I do not know.

[Troi's office]
DATA: Everything seems to remind me of the nightmare. Objects, sounds, smells. And now I have seen elements of the dream in a waking state. I cannot explain it.
TROI: Data, if you were one of my human patients, I might be concerned right now. I'd say you had a waking dream or an hallucination. But you're not human. I think we might be looking at some kind of technological problem.
DATA: I have run three complete self diagnostics. All of my systems are functioning normally. Perhaps Doctor Freud was correct. The knife I dreamed about is the embodiment of my unconscious desire to inflict violence.
TROI: Data, even Freud said, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. But the bottom line is, I think you're developing an almost obsessive interest in your own inner workings. I'd almost call it the beginnings of a neurosis.
DATA: That is not possible.
TROI: Why not? You've eliminated all the technical explanations. And it makes sense that as your neural net becomes more complex, more human, that you might experience the same kind of psychological complexities as a human.
DATA: Do you really think it is possible?
TROI: Data, you must be the first person who's come into my office and been excited at the prospect of a new neurosis. But yes, I do think it's possible, and I'd like to start counseling you on a regular basis.
DATA: Daily?
TROI: No, we'll start weekly. And as a first step, I'd like you to shut down your dream program until our next session, just to be on the safe side. Give yourself a chance to reflect on this experience.
DATA: Thank you, Counselor. I look forward to our next meeting.
TROI: And Data? Next time, see me before you see Sigmund.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Admiral, I can explain.
NAKAMURA (screen): Let me guess. Your new warp core is malfunctioning again?
PICARD: Unfortunately, the problem has affected our impulse systems. At the moment, we are adrift.
NAKAMURA (screen): Are you expecting to have this problem fixed soon, or shall we send out a tow ship to bring you in?
PICARD: That will not be necessary. I have full confidence in my Engineering staff. I will be at the banquet on time. Picard out.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Have you tried reconfiguring the plasma conduits?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. Two hours ago.
PICARD: What about the relays? Are you absolutely certain you don't need a new phase invertor?
DATA: I am currently running a level three diagnostic of the relays, sir. We will have the results of the analysis in approximately ten minutes.
PICARD: I see. Oh, perhaps I could reconfigure these isolinear chips.
LAFORGE: No, sir, please don't touch that. Captain, Commander Data and I have the situation under control. Now, if you'd just let us care of it, the work would go much faster.
TYLER: Captain, we could use an extra hand moving the containment pods. If it wouldn't be an imposition.
PICARD: Oh, no, not at all. I'd be delighted.
LAFORGE: Good work, Tyler. I thought he'd never leave. Data, I want you to give me a hand locking down this plasma conduit. Data? Data?

[Turbolift]
TROI: Deck thirty six.
TROI: Hello, Data. Are you all right?
TROI: What are you doing?
DATA: Hold very still, Counselor.
TROI: No!

[Corridor]
WORF: Ever since you gave Alexander that music program, he's been playing it all night, every night.
RIKER: I just wanted to broaden his horizons. Besides, he likes it.
WORF: It is screeching, pounding, dissonance. It is not music.
RIKER: Worf, it's better than music, it's jazz.
RIKER: Medical emergency. Deck seventeen, section three alpha.
MEDIC (voiceover): We're on our way.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I believe I had another waking dream, sir. But this time, I had an uncontrollable urge to eliminate the image I saw.
PICARD: And what you saw was some sort of a mouth on Troi's shoulder?
DATA: Yes, sir. For a reason I cannot explain, I had the need to destroy it.
RIKER: What about me? Did you see one of those mouths on my head as well?
DATA: No, sir. I saw a straw coming out of your head.
PICARD: A straw?
DATA: As I said before, these are all images I originally experienced in my dream program. I do not have a rational explanation for them.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Captain, we've run every possible diagnostic on Data's positronic net we can think of. We can't find anything wrong. I could run a subpolymer scan, but it would take some time to set up the equipment.
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I'll have to relieve you of duty and confine you to your quarters.
DATA: A sensible precaution, sir.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Data.
CRUSHER: Deanna, you're in Sickbay. It's all right.
TROI: Data.
CRUSHER: He's not here. Just try to relax. This vascular pad has healed the wound, but you've lost a lot of blood so I would like you to lie still for a while.
CRUSHER: That's odd. There shouldn't be any discoloration after the treatment. This looks like some sort of rash.
TROI: What is it?
CRUSHER: I'm picking up cellular degradation. But it doesn't appear to be related to the lacerations. There's also some kind of residual interphasic signature. Nurse, bring me an interphasic scanner. I want to take a closer look at this.

[Data's quarters]
WORF: Commander. I will have to confiscate your sidearm.
DATA: Of course. May I ask a personal favor?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: Will you take care of Spot for me?
WORF: Your animal?
DATA: I am afraid if I have another waking dream, I might injure him.
WORF: Of course. Spot, come here.
DATA: Unlike a canine, Spot does not respond to verbal commands. Goodbye, Spot. He will need to be fed once a day. He prefers feline supplement number twenty five.
WORF: I understand.
DATA: And he will require water. And you must provide him with a sand box. And you must talk to him. Tell him he is a pretty cat, and a good cat.
WORF: I will feed him.
DATA: Perhaps that will be enough.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Captain, we have a problem. Take a look at this. Her tissue is breaking down on a cellular level and it's spreading. At first I thought it was a rash from the coil brace she was stabbed with, but when I used the interphasic scanner, I found this.
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: The question is, what are they?
CRUSHER: I've tested all the medical staff and I've found them on almost everyone so far. The cellular decay is accelerating in all cases. I haven't found a way to stop it or even slow it down. Looks like you're infected too. The organisms appear to be attached to our epidermal layers with osmotic tendrils. They're tapping directly into the bloodstream. And from what I can tell, they're spreading.

[Observation Lounge]
RIKER: What are we dealing with here? Are these creatures feeding on us?
CRUSHER: Yes, in a very particular way. They appear to be extracting our cellular peptides. It's roughly analogous to the way terran leeches consume hemoglobin. If they're not removed soon, our bodies are going to lose all their cellular cohesion. We'll collapse into nothing but a few pounds of chemicals.
PICARD: All right. Is there any way that we can affect these organisms?
LAFORGE: We've tried EM radiation, subspace fields, thermal protons, nothing's worked. They seem to exist in some sort of interphasic state, just beyond our range of visual and sensor acuity. The only way we can see them is to use an IP scanner. Tricorders can't even pick them up.
RIKER: Do we know where these things came from, Mister Worf?
WORF: I scanned the vicinity with an IP scanner. There is no sign of any similar creatures, or any unusual interphasic activity.
PICARD: What about Mister Data? There must be some connection between his odd behavior and these creatures. Is he infested as well?
CRUSHER: No. I scanned him, but I found nothing.
PICARD: Data attacked Counselor Troi because he saw a mouth on her shoulder. And in that same area that we first saw one of the organisms.
RIKER: Data also saw a straw in my head and then Beverly discovered an organism in the same place.
LAFORGE: Those images are all part of Data's dream. Maybe somehow he's unconsciously perceiving these creatures.
PICARD: Then perhaps it is time that we took a closer look at Mister Data's dreams.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: It is an interesting hypothesis. If I am being affected by these interphasic creatures on an unconscious level, it may also explain my waking dreams, and my subsequent anti-social behavior.
LAFORGE: What we want to do, Data, is link your neural net into the holodeck and have you activate your dream program, so as you dream we can observe the dream images.
PICARD: Perhaps we can learn more about these creatures by interpreting the symbols and images of your dreams.
DATA: I see. The concept is similar to the method of directed dreaming.
PICARD: Exactly. How soon can you have the link ready?
LAFORGE: We'd need about an hour to establish all the interface parameters.
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I suggest that you should prepare for bed.

[Holodeck]
LAFORGE: I think we're ready, Captain. The link is active. The holodeck has been calibrated to Data's neural net.
PICARD: Ready, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Normally, I would wish you pleasant dreams, but in this case, bad dreams would be more helpful.
DATA: I understand, sir. Initiating dream program. Stand by.

[Holodeck - corridor]
PICARD: Let's be very observant. Even the most insignificant image could be a very important symbol.
LAFORGE: Right.
PICARD: Here he comes.
DATA: Hello.
PICARD: Can we speak to Data directly or would that wake him up?
LAFORGE: He should be perceiving us as just another part of his dream. Anything we say to him will be taken in that context.
PICARD: You know, that sounds like a telephone ringer, but I don't see a receiver.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Cake?
PICARD: Oh. Er, thank you. Look at that. Her right shoulder. That is the same place that Data stabbed her.
LAFORGE: In his waking dream he said that there was a mouth on her shoulder.
PICARD: They're both symbols of consumption. Mouth, food. Mister Data, what kind of cake is this?
DATA: It is cellular peptide cake.
WORF: With mint frosting.
LAFORGE: Cellular peptides. That's exactly what the creatures are extracting.
RIKER: Will someone answer that damn ringing! Captain, the ringing is getting worse.
PICARD: What could the ringing symbolize? A bell? Sound? An old-fashioned way of communicating?
CRUSHER: Do you want some? It's delicious.
RIKER: Will somebody please get that!
LAFORGE: Yes? It's for you.
PICARD: Picard.
FREUD (voiceover): Kill them.
PICARD: Kill who?
FREUD (voiceover): Kill them, before it is too late.
PICARD: Who is this?

[Holodeck - Freud's office]
FREUD: I am Doctor Sigmund Freud.
LAFORGE: How does he fit into all this?
FREUD: If I were to interpret my own appearance in this dream, I would say I am the symbolic representation of Data's unconscious mind trying to warn him about the dangers he perceives around him.
PICARD: You mean the interphasic organisms.
FREUD: Of course.
PICARD: Tell me, Doctor, how do we kill them?
FREUD: Answer it. Nien, nien, nien. Do not be so literal. When I say answer it, I mean respond to it, to them.
WORKMAN: Be quiet!
PICARD: What do they represent?
LAFORGE: I don't know, but I do recognize that junction they're working on. It's the plasma conduit we installed with the new warp core.
PICARD: Respond? Respond to them? What does that mean?
LAFORGE: What is it that you're doing?
WORKMAN: Go away. Leave us alone.
PICARD: Who are you?
WORKMAN: We are your enemies.
DATA: Stop. You must not hurt my friends.
WORKMAN: Be quiet!
PICARD: Data, the shrieking noise you made. It causes them pain.
WORKMAN: Be quiet.
DATA: I believe I understand.

[Holodeck]
DATA: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yes, Data.
DATA: You must adjust my positronic subprocessor to emit an interphasic pulse.
PICARD: Data, what's going on?
DATA: The workmen in my dreams represent the organisms which are trying to demolish the ship. The incessant ringing of the telephone, Freud's cautions at the other end, were warnings of the dangers around us.
PICARD: What about the shrieking noises that you made?
DATA: My positronic subprocessor detected high frequency interphasic signatures from the organisms, which were symbolically represented in my dreams by a high shriek.
PICARD: When you made those noises, the workmen reacted in pain.
DATA: That is why I have asked Geordi to adjust my subprocessor. If I can produce a high frequency interphasic pulse, it may have a similar effect on the creatures.
LAFORGE: We're ready.
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Beverly, we're going to be sweeping the ship with a high frequency IP pulse. Will you monitor the creatures for any response?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Understood.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's working, Captain.

[Holodeck]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The creatures infesting the Enterprise have been completely eliminated. We believe the infestation originated within the warp core we obtained on Starbase eighty four.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This conduit was manufactured on Thanatos Seven using a new interphasic fusion process. We think it was that process which attracted the organisms to the conduit where they lay dormant until we activated the warp core. That's also why we couldn't get the core online. The creatures were disrupting the plasma flow.
PICARD: How long before we have warp power again?
LAFORGE: Well, we're going to have to manufacture a new conduit. That's at least six hours work.
PICARD: Six hour? The banquet will be completely over by then. That's very unfortunate.
LAFORGE: I can try and speed things up a bit.
PICARD: No, no, no. I wouldn't want to sacrifice the safety of the ship.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
DATA: Counselor. I did not have a chance to apologize for my actions.
TROI: Data, don't worry about it. Geordi explained everything to me. It wasn't your fault. But somehow I thought turnabout would be fair play, so I made us a little something to snack on.
DATA: I wonder, what would Doctor Freud say about the symbolism of devouring oneself?
TROI: Data, sometimes a cake is just a cake.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47254.1. A delegation of the Cairn have just come on board. This telepathic species has no concept of spoken language, and is being instructed in its use by an old friend.

[Ten Forward]
LWAXANA: I don't know what they'd have done without me. First, I had to learn how they communicate. It was an absolutely exhausting process.
PICARD: It must have been.
LWAXANA: Quite different from Betazed telepathy. We transmit words. With the Cairn, it's images. A flood of them all at the same time. It's overwhelming.
PICARD: I can imagine.
LWAXANA: Actually it's a very efficient way of communicating. If two Cairn were having this conversation it would have been over minutes ago.
PICARD: Really?
LWAXANA: Of course, they realize that they'll want to communicate verbally if they join the Federation. Do me a favor. Introduce yourself to one of them. Engage him in conversation. They need the practice.
PICARD: I'd be happy to.
LAFORGE: It's called a visor. It enables me to see.
HEDRIL: Like my vocal enhancer. It helps me make sounds.
LWAXANA: I see you've already met my star pupil. Hedril's picked up spoken language much faster than the others.
DATA: It is often the case that children learn languages more easily than adults.
LWAXANA: Deanna was quite good at languages when she was little. Where is Deanna?
LAFORGE: Well, she must be here somewhere.
LWAXANA: Hedril, darling.
HEDRIL: What?
LWAXANA: Go find your father, dear. I want to talk to him.
DATA: Mrs Troi?
LWAXANA: Yes yes just a little tired. This constant telepathy with the Cairn. I'm fine, really. Aren't you going to mingle, Mister Woof?
WORF: I do not care for telepaths. They make me uneasy.
LWAXANA: Don't worry. The Cairn couldn't read your thoughts even if they wanted to. Your brain isn't sophisticated enough. Neither is yours, dear. They can only communicate with other telepaths. Have either of you seen Deanna?
RIKER: She was working, but she said she would be Speak of the devil.
TROI: Sorry I'm late. I lost track of the time.
LWAXANA: Deanna, dear, come with me. I want you to meet the senior diplomat of the Cairn delegation. Maques, this is the beautiful daughter I've been telling you about. Deanna.
MAQUES: Pleased to. Hello.
TROI: Hello. Pleased to meet you.
MAQUES: Oh, yes, that is it. Pleased to meet you, Deanna.
LWAXANA: Good. Well, I'll just let you young people chat.
TROI: Well, Maques, what do you think of the Enterprise?
MAQUES: It is beautiful. Comfortable, also.
TROI: I'm glad you think so.
MAQUES: There is another word that describes it. But I cannot remember.
TROI: You've learned a great deal in a very short time. I'm sure it won't be long before your words do justice to your thoughts.
MAQUES: Your mother told me of your need.
TROI: Need?
MAQUES: A moment. Husband. You need a husband. I need a wife.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA: Deanna! Good morning. So what did you think of Maques?
TROI: Why did you do that, Mother? You embarrassed both of us.
LWAXANA: He's really very sweet. And lonely. Poor man. A widower, raising a child alone.
TROI: Mother, don't start.
LWAXANA: I just think it's time for you to settle down. If your father were still alive, I'm sure he'd say the same thing.

[Turbolift]
TROI: Deck eight.
LWAXANA (voiceover): But you'll do exactly what you want. Just like always.
TROI: Mother, stop it.
TROI: Are you coming?

[Corridor]
TROI: What's wrong?
LWAXANA: You are so precious to me. You're all I've got. If something happened to you I don't know what I'd do.
TROI: Nothing's going to happen to me.
LWAXANA: You'd better go.
TROI: My first appointment isn't for a few minutes. Why don't we talk for a while?
LWAXANA: No, I'm fine. I'm just tired from working with the Cairn. It's making me emotional.
TROI: Are you sure?
LWAXANA: Go on I'll see you later. Go on.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Maques.
MAQUES: I must to apologize for yesterday.
TROI: You don't have to.
MAQUES: My words, they were confused.
TROI: It wasn't your fault. Please. My mother misled you.
MAQUES: Not in everything. She has an image of you in her mind. She shared it with me. You are even more beautiful. The way my people communicate, it is direct. Nothing is hidden.
TROI: Yes?
MAQUES: Your mother is the first to learn our telepathy.
TROI: You mean you've never had telepathy with someone who wasn't Cairn?
MAQUES: No. To communicate with her is very different.
TROI: In what way?
MAQUES: Always there is a part of her that. Um. A part of her that is dark.
TROI: Dark?
MAQUES: A part of her that can not be seen. Do you understand?
TROI: I'm not sure. Have you ask my mother about this?
MAQUES: She called it. A moment. Privacy.
TROI: Of course. You said among the Cairn, nothing is hidden. We value honesty, but we don't always share everything we're thinking and feeling.
MAQUES: This is privacy?
TROI: Yes.
MAQUES: It is normal?
TROI: For us, yes.
MAQUES: If this is your way, I am relieved.
TROI: It is our way.
MAQUES: I will leave now.
TROI: I'm glad you stopped by.
MAQUES: I am glad to have stopped also.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: I was all set for another round of arguing when all of a sudden she just fell apart.
RIKER: She's under a lot of stress. She's preparing the Cairn to meet with the Federation Council.
TROI: It's more than that. I'm been sensing very erratic emotions from her. Even the clothes she's wearing are unusual. They're so subdued.
RIKER: Maybe you just need to sit and talk with her.
LWAXANA: Commander! Take your hands off her.
RIKER: Mrs Troi.
LWAXANA: Don't you Mrs Troi me.
TROI: Mother!
LWAXANA: Why don't you leave her alone? If it weren't for you she'd be married by now.
TROI: That's enough!
LWAXANA: Now I am warning you. Stay away from my daughter!
TROI: You're coming with me.

[Sickbay]
LWAXANA: I don't know what got into me. Please, tell Will how sorry I am.
CRUSHER: You're fine, but your psilosynine levels are a little low.
LWAXANA: Psilo-what?
TROI: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy.
CRUSHER: It's been depleted by your work with the Cairn. You're going to have to try to avoid telepathic communication for a while.
LWAXANA: I can't.
CRUSHER: Why?
LWAXANA: We only have three days left and the Cairn have so much to learn.
CRUSHER: Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but you're going to have to take some time and rest.
TROI: Maybe I can help with the Cairn.
LWAXANA: No, you're only half Betazoid, dear. And you have no experience with their form of telepathy.
TROI: Then I won't use telepathy. We'll work verbally.
LWAXANA: I suppose we could do that. And if they don't understand something I'll explain it to them telepathically.
TROI: No, you'll work verbally too. The point is for you to get some rest, mother. Besides, it'll do them good to have to figure things out with words.
LWAXANA: I suppose you're right.

[Arboretum]
TROI: This is the ship's arboretum.
HEDRIL: Arbor means tree.
TROI: Very good, Hedril. This is where people come to relax, enjoy themselves in a natural setting.
TROI: Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose. It's an old earth poem by John Milton.
MAQUES: Please, what is a poem?
TROI: Poetry is an art form that uses words, put together in new and unexpected ways, sometimes in rhyme. Milton was speculating that in Heaven, roses wouldn't have thorns.
HEDRIL: Heaven?
TROI: Oh. Er, Heaven is. Well, it's, how can I put it?
MAQUES: Yes, I see. Thank you. Heaven.
TROI: Mother, you're supposed to be avoiding telepathy.
LWAXANA: I'm only trying to help, dear.
TROI: You don't look well.
LWAXANA: I'm just tired. Maybe I'll sit down.
TROI: Don't worry she'll be fine. This is something I think you'll find interesting. It's a jewel plant from Folnar Three. The plant secretes a resin which is collected within the blossom. By the time the bloom has faded, the resin has hardened into a rare and beautiful gem.
TROI: Mother!
TROI: Mother? Troi to Sickbay. Medical emergency in the arboretum.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: She's not responding to cortical stimulation. I'm not sure what else I can do.
TROI: I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday.
CRUSHER: It's so strange. It's almost as if her brain has shut itself down.
PICARD: Is there a physiological cause?
CRUSHER: I'm running a subneural scan. As far as I can see there's no tissue damage, no neurochemical imbalance, no sign of infection, nothing.
PICARD: Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent.
CRUSHER: The only exception is in the paracortex. Activity there is almost off the scale.
TROI: The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated with Maques telepathically just before she fell.
PICARD: Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of which we're unaware?
CRUSHER: It's a possibility.
PICARD: I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques.

[Maques' quarters]
MAQUES: I am very apologetic for what has happened to your mother.
PICARD: Maques, is it possible that your telepathic communications with Mrs Troi harmed her in some way?
MAQUES: No. I tried to explain before. Bad thoughts, they hurt her.
TROI: What thoughts? Take your time.
MAQUES: Inside her, the dark place.
TROI: I don't understand.
MAQUES: She is, what are the words? I don't have the words.
PICARD: Counselor? Stop it!
TROI: It's all right. I'm fine. He was just trying to communicate with me telepathically.
MAQUES: Do you understand now?
TROI: I'm not sure.

[Crusher's office]
TROI: He communicated so much to me that at first it was just a jumble of images.
CRUSHER: Have you been able to sort any of it out?
TROI: I think so. During his telepathic contact with my mother, Maques sensed what he calls a dark place. He tried to tell me about it before, in my office, and I misunderstood. I thought he was talking about thoughts my mother was keeping private, but what he meant was that there was something happening in her met conscious mind.
CRUSHER: Metaconscious?
TROI: It's a part of the Betazoid psyche. It's a kind of filtering mechanism that protects us from psychic trauma.
PICARD: Is Maques suggesting that your mother's metaconscious has been somehow damaged?
TROI: He feels that whatever is wrong with her is centerd there. If he's right it may mean that she's suffered some kind of trauma that her metaconscious just can't tolerate.
CRUSHER: Has your mother mentioned anything that happened to her lately, something that might have been traumatic for her?
TROI: No. Nothing.
CRUSHER: Maques could be wrong about this. There's still a chance that a subneural scan might be able to pinpoint an physiological cause for your mother's condition, something that I might be able to treat. The results won't be in until morning. Maybe we should all try and get some rest.
TROI: I'd like to stay here with her. I'm going to try to contact her telepathically.
CRUSHER: All right.

[Sickbay]
TROI (voiceover): Mother can you hear me? Please come back to me. Please.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Help me.
TROI (voiceover): Mother?
LWAXANA (voiceover): Help me.
TROI (voiceover): How? How can I help you?
TROI: Tell me, mother. Please.
TROI: Computer, lights!
TROI: What are you doing?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Maques, what were you doing in Sickbay?
MAQUES: Helping. Trying to help Lwaxana.
TROI: How? What were you trying to do?
MAQUES: I was. She was. You, Deanna. Maybe you.
TROI: Yes?
MAQUES: You must. How can I explain
TROI: Tell me telepathically.
TROI: Maques believes my mother's psyche has collapsed in on itself. That for some reason, she has retreated into her metaconscious mind.
PICARD: Was he trying to contact her telepathically?
TROI: Yes. He was able to access images being generated by her metaconscious, but he couldn't make any sense of them.
MAQUES: I did not understand.
TROI: He saw faces he didn't recognize, events he couldn't interpret.
CRUSHER: If we could decipher these images, we might be able to determine whether or not your mother's condition was induced by a traumatic event.
TROI: Maques feels he can provide a telepathic bridge that will allow me to access my mother's metaconscious. If he can, I might be able to find out what happened to her.
PICARD: And if you succeed, can you use that information to help your mother?
TROI: I'm not sure. But I do know that there's a part of her that wants to be helped. When I tried to contact her telepathically, I heard a voice calling out to me.
PICARD: If her psyche has collapsed in on itself, could accessing her mind pose any danger to you?
TROI: There's no way to know. I'd like to try.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'll be monitoring her throughout the entire procedure. If anything goes wrong, Maques can break the telepathic link.
MAQUES: Your mother. Part of her is very frightened. She may resist you.
TROI: I understand.

[Corridor]
LWAXANA (voiceover): Help me.
TROI: Mother?
LWAXANA (voiceover): Help me.
PICARD: Counselor? Can you hear me?
TROI: Captain?
PICARD: Deanna, Doctor Crusher's become concerned that your paracortical readings have become erratic.
TROI: Are you talking to me from Sickbay?
PICARD: Yes. I want you to sever your connection to your mother.
TROI: Why don't you ask Maques to do it?
PICARD: I'm asking you. That is an order, Counselor.
TROI: You're not Captain Picard.
PICARD: Leave me alone, please.
TROI: This isn't real. None of this is real.

[Nursery]
IAN: Deanna.
TROI: Daddy?
IAN: Look at you. You've become a beautiful woman
TROI: Don't do this.
IAN: I'm sorry I had to go away when you were so little. I didn't want to.
TROI: You're not my father. You're part of my mother's mind. What is this place?
IAN: This is our house near Lake El'nar on Betazed. We used to live here. Deanna, let's not waste this chance. I want to hear everything about you.
TROI: Did I live here?
IAN: For a while when you were a baby. You were such a beautiful baby. Your mother and I loved you so much.
TROI: I don't remember these toys.
IAN: I bet you don't remember me singing you to sleep at night either, but I did.
TROI: I do remember. I always felt safe when you sang to me.
IAN: There was one song you always asked me to sing. You couldn't fall asleep unless you heard it.
TROI: Down in the valley.
IAN: Yes. Down in the valley, valley so low. Hang your head over, hear the wind blow.
TROI: No, you're just trying to keep me here. Keep me from finding something.
IAN: Your mother doesn't want to see you, Deanna.
TROI: I have to help her.
IAN: If you want to help her, leave. Let her have peace.
TROI: She called out to me. She does want me to help.
IAN: Stay with me, just a little while. Deanna, it's been so long. We'll never have this chance again.
TROI: Goodbye, Daddy.

[Corridor]
TROI: Hedril.
TROI: Mother.
LWAXANA: Get away from her!

[Sickbay]
TROI: No!

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Hedril, I asked your father to bring you here because I wanted to talk to you about something. You know that Lwaxana's sick, don't you?
HEDRIL: Yes. Is it my fault?
TROI: No, not at all. But I believe that she's been thinking about you. Do you know why?
HEDRIL: I make her sad.
TROI: Why do you say that?
HEDRIL: Because it's true.
TROI: Do you have any idea why Hedril would make my mother sad?
MAQUES: No.
TROI: Well, thank you for coming to talk to us. I'll see you later, all right?
HEDRIL: Counselor, I hope your mother gets better.
TROI: Thank you, Hedril. So do I.
TROI: I just don't understand how she fits in to all this.
CRUSHER: And I haven't found a physiological cause for what's happened to your mother, which makes me feel that Maques was right when he said that your mother's condition was precipitated by a traumatic event.
PICARD: Could this event have involved Hedril?
TROI: I don't think so. My mother never mentioned her.
CRUSHER: Does your mother keep personal logs or a journal?
TROI: Yes, she does. I'll contact Mister Homn on Betazed and ask him to transmit a copy as soon as possible. There may be some clues there.
DATA: Perhaps we are being too literal. I have recently learned in my study of dream analysis that people who appear in a dream can sometimes represent different aspects of the person who is dreaming.
TROI: That's right. A child might represent vulnerability. Hedril may depict some fragile part of my mother.
PICARD: A part that she's protecting. You said that everything you encountered when you were in her mind was a barrier of one kind or another.
TROI: Yes. You, the wolf, my father. It was though she were summoning all her defenses to keep me away. But keep me away from what? What is she protecting?

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: Hello, Captain.
PICARD: I've just come from Sickbay. Doctor Crusher feels that your mother's condition is worsening. Her neural foundations are getting weaker. Have you had any luck here?
TROI: No, nothing. I've gone through all her belongings, read her journal from the last five years, and other than the fact that I'm not married yet, nothing bad seems to have happened to her.
PICARD: Is this your Father?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: He had a kind face.
TROI: I remember when he died, my mother had to go through all his things and pack them away. I was seven. I remember thinking how mad he'd be when he came home and saw what she'd done. I didn't understand he wasn't coming back.
PICARD: Deanna, your mother might still come out of this.
TROI: If we can't figure out what's wrong with her, Captain, I don't think she will. But I don't know what else to do. I've talked with Mister Homn, who's known her for years. I've checked her medical records. I've made enquiries to the government on Betazed, I've contacted her closest friends. If she's been through some kind of psychic trauma, there's just no evidence of it.
PICARD: You said you'd reviewed her journals for the past five years. Maybe we should go further back.
TROI: That's a lot to review. My mother's kept a journal since before she was married.
PICARD: Then let's start at the beginning. The first entry seems to be stardate 30620.1.
TROI: That's the year they were married.
PICARD: That's odd. There's a seven year gap.
TROI: It starts about a year after the wedding.
PICARD: And if I'm not mistaken, it ends a few months after your birth.
TROI: My mother's so diligent about her journal. why would she have stopped making entries for so long?
PICARD: She didn't. The files were deleted, by your mother, almost thirty years ago.
TROI: I don't understand any of this. Captain, I have to go back inside my mother's mind. It's the only way we're ever going to get any answers.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Thank you. Deanna, you understand that if your paracortical readings go too high again, I'm going to tell Maques to sever the connection.
TROI: I know.

[Corridor]
TROI: Hedril, be careful.
HEDRIL: Who is Hedril?
TROI: Wait! I want to talk to you.
LWAXANA (voiceover): Help me. Help me!

[Arboretum]
LWAXANA (voiceover): Go.
TROI: Mother?
LWAXANA: Go away.
TROI: No. I want to help you. Why did you delete parts of your journal? Did something happen to you you don't want me to know about?
LWAXANA: Leave me alone, please.
TROI: Who's Hedril, mother? Why is she here? Is Hedril me when I was a little girl?
LWAXANA: No! Oh, no, I'd never let anything happen to you. Never.
TROI: Did you let something happen to someone? Was it here at El'nar?
LWAXANA: You were just a baby.
TROI: Tell me. Whatever it is. we can face it together.
LWAXANA: I can't. I can't.
TROI: You can. We can.
HEDRIL: Help me. Help me, papa.
LWAXANA: Please don't make me go through this again.
IAN: Hold on to him. Don't let him run off.
HEDRIL: I won't. Mommy, can we go play by the water?
LWAXANA: No, Kestra, stay here with us.
HEDRIL: Please?
LWAXANA: Kestra. Oh, Kestra, you've made the baby cry.
TROI: Kestra?
LWAXANA: Don't cry, Deanna. Don't cry, mommy's here.
HEDRIL: Mommy, please?
IAN: No, Kestra. We're going to eat in just a few minutes.
LWAXANA: What's wrong, what's wrong, little one? Tell mommy what's wrong. Ian, she's teething, Now where's her ring?
LWAXANA: No, no. I don't want to see this again. I can't.
TROI: What happened, Mother. What happened next?
LWAXANA: I don't remember.
TROI: You have to. You can't hold it back. It's killing you.
LWAXANA: The dog got away. She ran after him. We didn't notice.
LWAXANA: Why? Why did I look away? Why wasn't I paying attention?
TROI: You have to forgive yourself, Mother. You have to let go.
LWAXANA: How can I? I let her die.
TROI: It was a terrible tragedy. The worst thing that can happen to any parent. I know you feel responsible but it was an accident. And what you're doing isn't fair to Kestra.
TROI: I saw a little girl who was sweet and happy. She must have brought a great deal of joy to your lives.
LWAXANA: She woke up every morning with a smile.
TROI: Isn't it better to remember her like that? I just found out I had a sister I never knew. I'd like to learn what was good and joyous about her. To celebrate her life, not mourn it.
LWAXANA: How? How can I do that?
TROI: Kestra was here a few moments ago. Talk to her.
LWAXANA: No. No.
TROI: Do it, mother. Tell her how you feel. I'll be here with you. I'll help you.
KESTRA: Mommy.
LWAXANA: Kestra. Oh, Kestra. My precious one. I'm so sorry.
KESTRA: I have to go now.
LWAXANA: I know. I know.

[Troi's quarters]
LWAXANA: I remember the day I took this.
TROI: Mister Homn said he saved it in case someday you wanted to remember her.
LWAXANA: I wish you could have known her, Deanna. I wish you two could have grown up together.
TROI: Tell me about her. I want to know everything.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47304.2. The Enterprise has arrived at Kesprytt Three in order to evaluate an unusual request on the part of the Kes for associate membership in the Federation.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: This morning she was fifteen minutes late. That's the third time this week. Jean-Luc, you don't have the slightest idea what I'm talking about, do you.
PICARD: No. I'm really sorry. I don't.
CRUSHER: I've been telling you about Nurse Ogawa and Ensign Markson for the last fifteen minutes.
PICARD: You have? I'm really sorry.
CRUSHER: Are you worried about this mission with the Kes?
PICARD: Not worried exactly. This notion of admitting half of their planet to the Federation while leaving the other half out.
CRUSHER: First of all, the Kes are not half the planet, they're nearly three quarters of it. And the Prytt are not being left out. They themselves simply don't want to have contact with anyone from the outside. not the Federation or anyone else.
PICARD: Every member of the Federation entered as a unified world, and that unity said something about them. That they had resolved certain social and political differences and they were now ready to become part of a larger community.
CRUSHER: By all indications, the Kes are a very unified, very progressive people.
PICARD: But the Prytt are not. They are reclusive to the point of xenophobia.
CRUSHER: Well, think about Earth. What if one of the old nation states, say Australia, had decided not to join the World Government in twenty one fifty? Would that have disqualified us as a Federation member?
PICARD: That analogy is not exactly
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've received word from Ambassador Mauric. He's ready to see you and Doctor Crusher.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Inform him we're on our way. Thank you for breakfast.
CRUSHER: Wait until tomorrow. I have something very special planned. It's a Vulcan dish. That's all I'll say.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Captain. Doctor. I have the coordinates of Ambassador Mauric's chambers.
PICARD: Let's not keep them waiting, Mister Worf.
WORF: Enterprise to Kes Security Relay Station One. We're ready to commence transport.
KES (voiceover): Acknowledged, Enterprise. We have lowered our defense shield.
WORF: Confirmed.
PICARD: Energize.
KES (voiceover): This is Security Relay Station One. We are ready to receive your Captain and Medical Officer.
WORF: This is the Enterprise. We have completed the transport sequence. You should have them.
KES (voiceover): Negative, Enterprise. They are not here.

[Cell]
PICARD: Beverly. Beverly.
CRUSHER: What happened?
PICARD: I don't know.
CRUSHER: The last thing I remember we were beginning to transport.
PICARD: I would assume we must be on Kesprytt. We're in some kind of prison cell. The question is, why? I can't imagine that Ambassador Mauric would have any reason to detain us.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: Let me see.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: It looks like an implant. It seems to be connected directly to the brainstem.
PICARD: Some kind of coercive device?
CRUSHER: Whatever it is I doubt it's designed for our health.
PICARD: What is going on here?
CRUSHER: If you tell us why you've taken us hostage, we might be able to
LORIN: You are not hostages. You are prisoners.
PICARD: Prisoners on whose authority?
LORIN: You are being held under the authority of the Prytt Security Ministry. The charges are conspiring with the enemy.
PICARD: Enemy? You mean the Kes.
LORIN: We're not fools. We are aware of the Federation attempt to establish a military alliance with the Kes. It will not be tolerated.
PICARD: Your information is incorrect. We have no plans to enter into any
LORIN: There is no point in trying to mislead us, Captain. The devices which have been implanted in your cerebral cortexes will soon be calibrated to your psi-wave pattern. At that time, we will be able to get all the information we need.
PICARD: And then you'll discover that we're telling the truth.
LORIN: We shall see.

[Transporter room]
DATA: There is nothing wrong with the transporter. I have run a complete diagnostic of all the targeting components.
RIKER: Then what happened to the Captain and Doctor Crusher?
WORF: Commander. The Transporter sensor log shows an unusual concentration of antigraviton particles in the emitter coil.
DATA: A concentration of antigraviton particles suggests a tractor beam. It might have deflected the transporter beam to a different set of coordinates.
RIKER: Is there a way to locate those coordinates?
DATA: The tractor beam originated somewhere in the Prytt Alliance.
WORF: Why does the Prytt want Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher?
RIKER: I don't know. And it's not going to be easy to find out. The Prytt have consistently refused all outside contact. We're going to have to work through the Kes. Contact Ambassador Mauric. Tell him I want a meeting right now.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Cell]
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: You're staring at me.
CRUSHER: I was just thinking about how to get out of here.
PICARD: There may be a structural flaw that would allow us to escape.
CRUSHER: Right.
PICARD: Beverly, the important thing during any confinement is to think positively and not give up hope. There is a way out of every box, there is a solution to every puzzle. It's just a matter of finding it.
PICARD: Damn.
CRUSHER: Well, at least this means we won't starve to death.
PICARD: It means they plan on keeping us here for a while.
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think negatively, Jean-Luc.
CRUSHER: My tricorder!
PICARD: Does it work?
CRUSHER: Yes. Except something's been added to the main directory.
PICARD: It's a map.
CRUSHER: An escape route. That guard must be working for the Kes.
PICARD: Possibly. Or it could be part of a very carefully laid trap.
CRUSHER: If you ask me, I'd like to take my chances out there.
PICARD: Agreed. Is there a way to open the cell door?
CRUSHER: Yes, the code's been entered.

[Observation lounge]
MAURIC: Commander, on behalf of my government, I would like to take this opportunity to present my profound apologies regarding this unfortunate incident.
RIKER: That's very kind, Ambassador. But I don't think anyone here holds you or the Kes government responsible for what's happened.
TROI: Our primary concern is not to assign blame, but to recover our missing officers.
MAURIC: I agree. We are prepared to insert a hostage rescue team into the Prytt capital city on three hours notice.
RIKER: Ambassador, we have not even attempted a diplomatic effort yet. I would rather not use force until we've exhausted all other options.
MAURIC: I don't believe there is any diplomatic option, Commander. We have no formal relations with the Prytt. No ambassadors. There's simply no way to contact them.
TROI: Surely you must have some means of communication in case of a planetary emergency.
MAURIC: We have never had need of such a system.
WORF: We can determine their communications frequencies and establish a link.
MAURIC: Allow me to be blunt. The Prytt are a fanatical, xenophobic people, with little regard for civilized discourse. Even if you do establish communications link with them, it will be a complete waste of time.
TROI: How long has it been since your last diplomatic contact?
MAURIC: Almost a century.
TROI: Then it's possible they may have changed over the years.
MAURIC: We have had other less formal contacts with the Prytt. Contacts we cannot discuss. But I can assure you, they have changed very little.
RIKER: With all due respect, Ambassador, I think I should try to communicate with the Prytt before I sanction the use of force.
MAURIC: Of course, Commander. In the meantime, I will continue making preparations for a rescue attempt.
RIKER: Agreed.
MAURIC: I do have one request. We believe that the Prytt obtained their information about the transport of your captain and doctor through a breach in our communications network. If I could set up a base of operations here on the Enterprise, I'd feel much more secure.
RIKER: Mister Worf will help you.
MAURIC: Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Corridor]
MAURIC: You first.

[Kes quarters]
WORF: Is there a problem, Ambassador?
MAURIC: Probably not. Simply securing the area.
WORF: I can assure you there is no need.
MAURIC: I'm sure you're right. Yes, this will do very nicely.
WORF: As Security Chief of the Enterprise, I would be glad to assist you in any way possible.
MAURIC: There's no need. We'll take care of everything. Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Cave]
PICARD: There must be a lava flow or a underground hot spring somewhere near here.
CRUSHER: It's a lava flow. It's about thirty meters below us. It says we should go this way. I smell gas.
CRUSHER: This whole chamber is filled with pockets of a methanogenic compound.
PICARD: Can we get through it?
CRUSHER: I think so.
PICARD: What did you say?
CRUSHER: I didn't say anything. There might be a fairly regular pattern to these eruptions. We should be able to navigate out way through them if we're careful.
PICARD: Say when.
CRUSHER: Now.
PICARD: The eruptions have stopped.
CRUSHER: The gas is building up!

[Bridge]
DATA: I have scanned the entire Prytt communications system. This appears to be the primary access module for the central government.
RIKER: Can you determine which of the comm. links is connected to the Prime Minister's office?
DATA: I believe so, sir. However, the Prytt have no link designed for extraterritorial communication. Our hail may come as a quite surprise to them.
RIKER: Well, they're going to have to adjust. Open a channel.
PRYTT (voiceover): This is Prime Minister Horath's headquarters. How can I be of service?
RIKER: This is Commander William T. Riker, Federation starship Enterprise. I know this may seem an unusual way
PRYTT (voiceover): The Enterprise? You mean the ship in orbit?
RIKER: That's right.
PRYTT (voiceover): Why are you on this comm. link?
RIKER: We're having trouble contacting your government directly. We had to start somewhere. If you would let me talk to your
PRYTT (voiceover): Did you get authorisation for this communication from the Security Ministry?
RIKER: As I said, we're having trouble contacting you
PRYTT (voiceover): I cannot participate in an unauthorized communication. This transmission is terminated.
RIKER: Not very friendly, are they?
DATA: No, sir.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed. It is the Prytt Security Council.
RIKER: Well, it looks like we got someone's attention. On screen.
LORIN (screen): Enterprise, this is Security Minister Lorin. You will immediately cease all attempts at communication with our people.
RIKER: Minister, we've been attempting to contact someone in your government. It appears that you have detained two of our officers. We would like to discuss the situation.
LORIN (screen): There is nothing to discuss. If you do not terminate these transmissions, we will be forced to take aggressive action against your ship.
WORF: Their weapon systems pose no threat to the Enterprise.
RIKER: Just the same, let's keep the shields up for the time being.
WORF: Aye, sir.
MAURIC: Is there a problem, Commander?
RIKER: Our efforts with the Prytt just ran into a wall.
MAURIC: I'm sorry. But perhaps this will brighten your spirits. We have freed your Captain and doctor.
RIKER: What?
MAURIC: They were being held in prison just outside the Prytt capital. One of our operatives was able to arrange their escape.
WORF: Where are they now?
MAURIC: Well, they should be en route to the Kes border. Our operative provided them with a detailed map and instructions on where to go.
RIKER: How will you get them across the border?
MAURIC: At the moment, that information is confidential, but trust us, we do have a plan.
RIKER: Ambassador, I'm afraid I must insist that you provide us with more information.
MAURIC: I understand your concern, of course, but I would feel more comfortable discussing these operational details in a less public environment.
RIKER: Certainly. We can step into the Ready room.
MAURIC: I would prefer the quarters you provided me. They're safer.
RIKER: All right.

[Tunnel]
PICARD: There's no way out of here.
CRUSHER: Maybe we took a wrong turn.
CRUSHER: So am I.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: I'm thirsty too.
PICARD: I didn't say anything about being thirsty.
CRUSHER: I heard you. You said, I'm very thirsty.
PICARD: I was thinking about it, but I didn't say anything.
CRUSHER: You were thinking it?
PICARD: The transceivers. Lorin said that they would align themselves to our psi-wave patterns.
CRUSHER: The implants must be transmitting our thoughts. What am I thinking?
PICARD: I don't know.
CRUSHER: I can't hear your thoughts, either. Maybe it was a fluke.
PICARD: Well, right now we have more immediate concerns. Does your map show us a way out of here?
CRUSHER: Yes, we need to go up.

[Cavern]
CRUSHER: There's a ledge about thirty meters up. That should lead to another tunnel that connects up to the surface.
PICARD: Right.
PICARD: I heard that. They were not words exactly. A sudden sense of fear. A sense of fear of heights.
CRUSHER: So much for that being a fluke.
PICARD: It was a strange sensation. Suddenly having these thoughts appear in my mind.
CRUSHER: If you sensed a fear of heights, you sensed pretty accurately.
PICARD: Come on, you've done this before. It's just like on a holodeck. One step at a time, just climbing steadily and slowly.
CRUSHER: Right.

[Kes quarters]
RIKER: I see you've done some redecorating.
MAURIC: Just a few pieces of equipment necessary for security reasons. You understand?
RIKER: Certainly.
AIDE: He is all right.
RIKER: How do you plan to get our people out of Prytt territory?
MAURIC: You must realize that everything I'm about to say cannot leave this room. For some time, we have had certain friends among the Prytt. Citizens who realize that the long struggle between our two peoples can only end when the Prytt government is made to see reason.
RIKER: You've recruited a few Prytt spies.
MAURIC: That's a crude, but accurate term. These friends will be waiting for your Captain and Doctor when they reach the village of Ohn Kor near the Kes border. The map we provided your officers will take them to a tavern there.
RIKER: Forgive me, Ambassador, but is it wise to send two human fugitives in Starfleet uniforms into a Prytt village?
MAURIC: The danger is minimal. Our operatives control almost the whole village. Once contact has been made with Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher, our friends will escort them across the border into Kes.
RIKER: I would still feel better if they could rendezvous with your operatives in a less public place.
MAURIC: Commander, I assure you we know what we're doing. We've had a great deal of experience dealing with the Prytt. We'd hardly risk the safety of your people. After all, we still hope you will recommend our entrance into the Federation.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: One of us is hungry.
CRUSHER: That would be me.
PICARD: Do you mind thinking of something else. You're making me hungry.
CRUSHER: What do you want me to think about?
PICARD: Something other than a large bowl of vegetable soup.
CRUSHER: My grandmother used to make it, with peas, carrots and
PICARD: Beverly!
CRUSHER: I'm sorry.
PICARD: I am not being unreasonable.
CRUSHER: I didn't say that you were. I may have thought it, but there's a difference.
PICARD: You're right. We can't react to every random thought that crosses the other person's mind. Isn't astonishing, though, how much clutter there is in a consciousness. Odd memories coming to the surface. Bits of half-remembered songs.
CRUSHER: Stray day dreams, scattered minutiae. I wonder how true telepaths sift through it all. How can they really get to what someone's thinking if the minds keeps churning all this flotsam to the surface? That is not funny.
PICARD: I just wanted to see if you were still listening.
CRUSHER: I think our link is getting stronger.
PICARD: Maybe if we put some distance between us, that might weaken it. Not that I'm growing tired of hearing your most intimate thoughts.
CRUSHER: Certainly not.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: What happened?
CRUSHER: I was suddenly overcome with a wave of nausea.
PICARD: Me, too.
CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with either of us. Maybe the air is toxic.
PICARD: The same thing. But when you moved back toward me it got better. Well, it seems as if we're stuck with each other.
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure whether we should go over this hill or that one. The topography on this map is a little vague.
PICARD: Let me see. This way.
CRUSHER: You don't really know, do you?
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: I mean, you're acting like you know exactly which way to go, but you're only guessing. Do you do this all the time?
PICARD: No, but there are times when it is necessary for a captain to give the appearance of confidence.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I just couldn't resist.
PICARD: I'm beginning to realize that you seem to always have some acerbic remark on the tip of your tongue.
CRUSHER: Well at least I've trained myself not to say it anymore. When I was a little girl, my mouth was always landing me in trouble with my parents, my teachers.
PICARD: Your friends. There was someone called Tom Norris?
CRUSHER: That's right. I had one date with him which I brought to an abrupt halt with the words, is that a beard or
BOTH: Is your face dirty?
PICARD: There's something more. You're laughing, but actually you're embarrassed by that incident.
CRUSHER: Yes. I thought I was being cute but I really hurt him. That was a long time ago. I learned a valuable lesson.
PICARD: This sharing of thoughts and feelings is quite compelling.
CRUSHER: Very. We'd better get going.
CRUSHER: I don't think so, either. Maybe we can find another way to reach the village.
PICARD: No. It's several kilometers to find another way around that ridge. The border is just two kilometers east of here. There's a forcefield protecting it, but we can find some way to deal with that when we get there. Come on.

[Kes quarters]
AIDE: All right.
RIKER: Is something wrong?
MAURIC: Have a seat. Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher didn't show up at the designated rendezvous point.
RIKER: Do you know what happened to them?
MAURIC: No. We have no idea what happened to them. We find it strange that your officers should follow the escape plan so precisely and then fail to make the crucial rendezvous with our operatives.
WORF: It is possible they have been recaptured.
MAURIC: Our sources would have informed us instantly if that had happened. Of course, if they weren't captured, if they simply made a different rendezvous, we might not ever know about it.
RIKER: A different rendezvous? I'm not sure I know what you mean.
MAURIC: Of course not. How could you know if your Captain and Doctor were meeting secretly with the Prytt? Meeting in order to set up a military alliance with the Federation.
RIKER: What?
MAURIC: It was a clever scheme. First, you pretend to lose your officers during transport, then you ask us for help and get us to expose several of our undercover operatives in the process. But what you didn't expect was for us to get your people out of prison so quickly. They needed more time. They needed more time to plot the destruction of the Kes with their new Prytt friends.
RIKER: This is ridiculous. You're beginning to see conspiracies everywhere. We were invited here by the Kes. Why would we ally ourselves with the Prytt?
MAURIC: Indeed, why?
RIKER: You can believe what you like. We're going to find our people with or without your help.
MAURIC: Then I believe it's time for us to be leaving the Enterprise.
RIKER: Fine. Make sure you take all this junk with you.

[Camp]
PICARD: No luck?
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think there's not a single thing on this planet we can eat.
PICARD: Well, by this time tomorrow we could be back on the Enterprise and you can plant yourself in front of a replicator with a knife and fork.
CRUSHER: Remember that Vulcan dish I promised you for breakfast? I was just. You hate having breakfast with me.
PICARD: That's not true.
CRUSHER: Yes, it is. When I said breakfast, I heard you say, I hate that.
PICARD: That's not quite what I meant.
CRUSHER: Well, then what did you mean?
PICARD: It's just that I don't like
CRUSHER: What I've been choosing for breakfast recently.
PICARD: You see, I think that breakfast should be a simple meal and recently you've been ordering these elaborate things.
CRUSHER: Coffee and croissants, that's all you really want, isn't it? Coffee and croissants. Well why didn't you just say so?
PICARD: I didn't think it was important. You don't like those elaborate meals either.
CRUSHER: No, I usually prefer something simple myself but I thought you might enjoy more variety. Well, I guess it's Coffee and croissants for both of us from now on.
BOTH: I love firelight.
PICARD: There's something about the flame, the smell of the smoke. It's always seemed to me to be intoxicating, somehow.
CRUSHER: I remember when Jack and I took Wesley on his first camping trip to Balfour Lake. Wesley kept throwing manta leaves in the fire, watching them pop. Jack kept telling him. What? Jean-Luc, I heard you. Don't push it away. When I said Jack and I, I felt this sudden wave of something. I didn't know you felt that way.
PICARD: Didn't you?
CRUSHER: I guess I always knew that there was an attraction between us right from the start, but I never knew how strongly you felt. Why didn't you ever tell me you were in love with me?
PICARD: You were married to my best friend. At first I thought it was harmless infatuation. Something hormonal rather than emotional.
CRUSHER: Then when the months went by and the three of us began spending more time together.
PICARD: I realized that it was something else, and it wasn't right. But although I would never act on it, I couldn't help the way I felt.
CRUSHER: And when Jack died you felt guilty.
PICARD: I felt guilty before he died> Having feelings like that for my best friend's wife. And then later, after the accident, I promised myself that I would never tell you know how I felt. It would be like betraying my friend
CRUSHER: That's why you didn't want me on the Enterprise seven years ago.
PICARD: I didn't know how I would react. And then, little by little, I realized that I didn't have those feelings any more. Twenty years is, after all, a long time.
CRUSHER: And now we're friends.
PICARD: Yes, friends.
CRUSHER: Well, we still have a lot of ground to cover tomorrow. We should get some sleep.
PICARD: Right.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Ambassador, thank you for coming.
MAURIC: Commander.
RIKER: We're going to clear up this misunderstanding once and for all. Hail Minister Lorin, please.
WORF: Aye, sir.
LORIN (screen): Enterprise, I have warned you about these unauthorized communications.
RIKER: Yes, I know, but I think it's about time we all sat down together and tried to work this out. I have Ambassador Mauric here
LORIN (screen): That is your misfortune. We have nothing to say to either of you.
MAURIC: Commander, you're working with the Prytt. Putting on this little show for my benefit does neither of us any good.
RIKER: We'll see. Mister Worf.
RIKER: I believe there's someone waiting for us in the Observation Lounge.

[Observation lounge]
LORIN: I should have known that anyone willing to deal with the Kes would be capable of such an outrage.
RIKER: I'm sorry to resort to such drastic measures, Minister, but you left me little choice.
MAURIC: Don't pretend the two of you are enemies. It's too late for charades.
LORIN: If that is an attempt to hide your military alliance with the Federation, you needn't bother. I already know far more than you can imagine.
RIKER: Let's all just sit down and try to talk about what's happened to Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher.
LORIN: I will not sit at a table with him.
MAURIC: No more than I would sit with her.
RIKER: All right then, we'll stand. The important thing is that we start talking.
LORIN: I am not authorized to talk with a Kes official.
RIKER: All right then, you talk to me. Where are my officers?
MAURIC: As if you don't already know.

[Hillside]
CRUSHER: Let's go.
PICARD: I'm all right.

[Observation lounge]
LORIN: We are already aware of your plan to use Federation technology to build new attack satellites. You will find that we are prepared for them.
MAURIC: That is an interesting but pointless lie. I'd rather discuss your own plans to use Federation aid to stage a takeover of Kolrod Island.
LORIN: We have been over this before. Kolrod clearly belongs to the Prytt who originally
RIKER: That's it! I can see that diplomacy is not going to get us anywhere today, and I do not have time for to negotiate. So let's put all of our cards on the table. You're concerned the Kes are going to be admitted to the Federation.
LORIN: Correct.
RIKER: As First Officer of the Enterprise I think I can promise you that's not going to happen. The Kes will be denied membership.
MAURIC: You have no authority to make that decision. Despite whatever games you played with the Prytt when you arrived, we still plan to take our petition directly to the Federation Council. They'll listen
RIKER: They will also listen to the reports of the Captain of the Enterprise and his First Officer. And I can tell you right now the First Officer's report will go something like this. Kesprytt, a deeply troubled world with social, political, and military problems they have yet to resolve. The Kes, while a friendly and democratic people, are driven by suspicion, deviousness, and paranoia. It is the opinion of this officer they are not ready for membership. Now, the matter of our missing officers.
LORIN: They are still charged with spying, Commander. I have heard nothing here which would alter that.
RIKER: Then maybe you should consider this. If anything happens to them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation, which means more starships will be coming to Kesprytt and those ships are going to want answers which puts your country under a very large and very uncomfortable microscope. Remember how unhappy you were when we contacted just one of your people without authorisation? Well, just think of what it'll be like. Ten starships asking questions, contacting hundreds of your people. Massive sensor sweeps. They may even start sending down away teams. All because you wouldn't help me find my missing officers.

[Border]
CRUSHER: I think I can use the tricorder to set up a multiphase pulse. That should weaken the field enough to let us through.
PICARD: No, no. The modulation frequency is in the upper harmonic range.
CRUSHER: Right.
PICARD: They're coming.
CRUSHER: I'm working as fast as I can.
TROOPER: Minister, we have the human female. The male is standing in Kes territory.

[Observation lounge]
LORIN: Very well. Transmit their coordinates to the Enterprise transporter room.
TROOPER (voiceover): Understood.
RIKER: Thank you, Minister. Now, if you'll excuse me.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mauric is determined to take his protest to the Federation Council, but I don't think he'll get very far.
PICARD: I tend to agree, Number One.
RIKER: Did I miss something?
PICARD: Of course. Of course. You're absolutely right.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: That was wonderful.
PICARD: My pleasure.
CRUSHER: Don't get me wrong, Jean-Luc, but I'm glad we're not joined at the hip anymore.
PICARD: So, were you getting tired of my company?
CRUSHER: Just tired of bumping into you every thirty seconds. I was beginning to feel as if you were part of my uniform.
PICARD: To freedom.
CRUSHER: Freedom. Penny for your thoughts?
PICARD: I was just thinking that as distracting as it was, I was beginning to get used to hearing your thoughts and I find that I miss it.
CRUSHER: So do I. It was very intimate. You know, last night I couldn't sleep.
PICARD: Oh?
CRUSHER: I was awake for several hours. And thanks to the implants, I got to hear some very interesting dreams of yours.
PICARD: A man can't be held responsible for what his mind does while he's asleep.
CRUSHER: What about when he's awake?
PICARD: So now that we've had this unique experience, what do we do?
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
PICARD: You know exactly what I mean.
CRUSHER: No, I don't. The implant's been removed, remember?
PICARD: Now that we know how each of us feels, perhaps we should not be afraid to explore those feelings.
CRUSHER: Or perhaps we should be afraid. I think I should be going now.
CRUSHER: Goodnight.
PICARD: Goodnight.

[La Forge's quarters]
DATA: Geordi?
LAFORGE: In here, Data.
LAFORGE: Got her now. She's trapped. Come on out of there, you. Hey, don't you spit at me.
DATA: Why is Spot under the bed?
LAFORGE: Probably because she knows if I catch her, I'm going to kill her.
DATA: Has Spot been misbehaving?
LAFORGE: So far she's broken a vase, a teapot, she's ruined one of my chairs using it as a scratch post, and she's coughing hairballs up all over my carpet.
DATA: These incidents are common to cat owners. When you borrowed Spot, you said you wanted to experience the full range of feline behavior before getting a cat yourself.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm not ready. You can take her back with my blessings. Go ahead, call her.
DATA: Spot does not respond to verbal commands.
LAFORGE: She won't come when you call her? Data, have you ever considered training this cat?
DATA: I never found it to be necessary.
LAFORGE: Necessary? Data, the cat is out of control. Half the time I wasn't sure if she was going to lick me or scratch my face off.
DATA: I have never experienced this kind of behavior in Spot. Although she does have the unfortunate habit of jumping on my computer console when I am working.
LAFORGE: She needs training.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to senior staff. Please report to the Observation lounge. Mission briefing in ten minutes.
LAFORGE: Right, we have to get her out of here. I'll scare her. You grab her when she comes out, okay?
DATA: I do not think it would be wise to startle her.
LAFORGE: Ready? Ow!
LAFORGE: Training. Definitely.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 47310.2. We're investigating the disappearance of the Medical Transport Fleming somewhere in the Hekaras Corridor. Our search is complicated by the unique properties of this particular region of space.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The Fleming's last contact with Starfleet was four days ago. According to them, there was nothing out of the ordinary when they entered the Corridor.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: The unusually intense tetryon fields in this sector pose a severe navigational hazard to warp driven vessels. The Hekaras Corridor is the only route through the area which is free of tetryon fields. Ships traveling at warp must use the Corridor to ensure safe passage through the region.
PICARD: How long will it take to complete a level one search?
DATA: At least two days, sir. The Corridor is over twelve light years long, and the surrounding tetryon interference will limit our sensor range.
WORF: Could we send out reconnaissance probes to supplement the sensors?
LAFORGE: They won't be very effective. The interference will make it difficult to maintain contact with the probes. The best we can do is to increase sensor efficiency. We've installed multiphase buffers on all the sensor modules, Captain. It should help a little.
TROI: Hekaras Two is inhabited, isn't it? Maybe they've had contact with the Fleming.
RIKER: They haven't. I've already spoken to the Hekaran government. According to them, only one ship has passed through the system in the last week. It was a Ferengi trader.
CRUSHER: The Fleming was carrying a supply of rare biomimetic gel, which is very valuable. Is it possible that the Ferengi might have hijacked it?
RIKER: I wouldn't put it past them. I think we should prepare for that contingency.
PICARD: I agreed. All right then. Mister Worf, initiate your search pattern. Let's head in.

[Engineering]
DATA: Geordi, there has been a slight drop in sensor efficiency. Perhaps we should examine the phase buffers.
LAFORGE: No problem, Data. I'll be right with you. Okay, Hansen, transfer EPS conduit thirteen to the stabilizer matrix.
HANSEN: Aye, sir.
DATA: Is there a problem with the engines?
LAFORGE: No.
DATA: Then why are you stabilizing the EPS conduit?
LAFORGE: I'm just trying to get a slightly higher power conversion level.
DATA: But that would not affect the engines in any way.
LAFORGE: I know that, Data. It's not the point.
DATA: What is the point?
LAFORGE: I'm just trying to get a higher conversion level, that's all.
DATA: Why?
LAFORGE: You know the Intrepid?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: Well, their Chief Engineer is Commander Donald Kaplan. He and I went through the Academy together. I just like to make sure that our power conversion levels are a little higher than theirs.
DATA: I understand. You are in competition with Mister Kaplan.
LAFORGE: You might say that. This is the flagship. We should be better than everybody else.
DATA: Then you are trying to outperform the Intrepid.
LAFORGE: Actually it's more a point of personal pride. These are my engines. And there's nothing wrong with a little friendly rivalry. Okay. Computer, how much have the conversion levels increased?
COMPUTER: Levels are unchanged.
LAFORGE: All right, I'll deal with of this later. Let me give you a hand with those sensors.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: How's that?
DATA: One moment. The phase buffer is functioning within normal parameters. Sensor efficiency has increased by six point seven percent.
LAFORGE: Six point seven? One of the stages must still be out of alignment. Let's try junction A nine.
DATA: Geordi, I have taken your suggestion regarding Spot.
LAFORGE: Coming down.
DATA: I have begun training her.
LAFORGE: Really?
DATA: Yes. I am studying several new techniques.
DATA: I began with simple conditioned response exercises and followed with environmental enhancement. Next I plan to explore bioconditioning devices.
LAFORGE: Devices?
DATA: Such as sensor nets for behavior modification or biofeedback motivators. Unfortunately, I have been less than successful.
LAFORGE: I've got an idea. How about a phaser? A low stun setting at just the right moment might do the trick.
DATA: Geordi. I cannot stun my cat.
LAFORGE: I was kidding, Data. Let's see what we've got. No, this isn't it, either.
DATA: Clearly there is a misalignment somewhere in this system.
LAFORGE: That's for sure. Well, we've got one more possibility. Junction C twelve.
DATA: I am somewhat concerned that my training efforts will ultimately fail.
LAFORGE: Maybe you're just going about it the wrong way, Data.
DATA: I have consulted numerous animal training manuals. Some of them claim that cats are inherently untrainable.
LAFORGE: I don't believe that for a second. Listen to me. My sister didn't know a thing about animals and she was able to train her cat. How complicated could it be?
DATA: What did she train her cat to do?
LAFORGE: She had that cat jumping into her arms on command.
DATA: Interesting. Perhaps I could modify your sister's techniques to keep Spot from jumping on console. Do you know how she was able to train her cat?
LAFORGE: Well, as I recall, she walked around for two months with a piece of tuna in her blouse.
LAFORGE: I was right. This buffer is out of alignment. Okay, try that.
DATA: Phase alignment is stabilized. However, sensor efficiency has increased by only an additional one point three percent.
LAFORGE: It's not much, but every little bit going to help.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Data.
DATA: Data here.
RIKER (voiceover): We're picking up a ship ahead on long range sensors. If you and Geordi are through down there, we'd like to have you on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: We're not going to squeeze anything else out of these systems.
DATA: Acknowledged, sir. We are on our way.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are within visual range, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: It is a Ferengi transport ship, D'Kora class.
RIKER: That's the same Ferengi vessel that entered the Corridor a week ago.
LAFORGE: Captain, there are no emissions from their plasma vents. Their warp drive must be completely inactive.
DATA: That is correct, sir. Their impulse system is down as well, Power generation is at extremely low levels.
PICARD: What about life signs?
DATA: Life support systems are also functioning at low levels. There are approximately four hundred fifty Ferengi on board. That is a standard complement for a ship of that class.
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency.
WORF: There is no response on any channel, sir.
LAFORGE: I'm not picking any subspace emissions from the ship at all, Captain. It looks like every one of their field coils has been overloaded.
RIKER: That would explain why they haven't respond to our hails.
DATA: It would also explain the failure of their warp drive.
LAFORGE: Captain, Ferengi sensors are still online. I could modify one of our deflector emitters to transmit old style delta waves. If I modulate that with a comm. signal, the Ferengi should be able to pick that up.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: If they did hijack the Fleming, they sure didn't get very far with the cargo.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have tractor beams standing by. We may have to take them under tow. Helm, take us within tractor range.
HELM: Aye, sir.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Ferengi ship. They are locking weapons.
PICARD: Shields up.
RIKER: Ready phasers. Prepare to return fire.
PICARD: Target their weapons array only.
WORF: Phasers locked.
PICARD: Fire.
DATA: Direct hit. Their weapon systems are down.
PICARD: Damage report.
WORF: We sustained minimal damage to decks five and seven, sir.
DATA: Sir, the Ferengi ship's power has stabilized. They appear to have impulse capability.
RIKER: They were just playing dead. Conserving power until we got in close enough.
PICARD: But why would they attack us in the first place?
RIKER: Somehow I don't think they'll let us beam over there and ask them.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how are you coming with that comm. link?
LAFORGE: Almost ready, Captain. All right, let's give it a try.
PICARD: Open a channel.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Will you please explain why you attacked us?
PRAK (screen): Our attack? We were defending ourselves. Do you deny that you are responsible for disabling my vessel?
PICARD: DaiMon, your ship was adrift, your communications inoperative. We were attempting to assess your status.
PRAK (screen): You were attempting to move in for the kill. Do not toy with me, Picard. We are obviously at your mercy, but know this. When the Ferengi Council learns of your actions, they will consider this an act of war.
PICARD: DaiMon, clearly there has been some misunderstanding. I think it would be in all interests if you were to come aboard and we discuss this situation.
PRAK (screen): I see no reason to trust you, human.
PICARD: In that case, we'll be on our way. I'll relay your position to your government if you wish, in case you're unable to complete your repairs and you remain stranded.
PRAK (screen): Perhaps it would be better to discuss the situation.

[Ready room]
PRAK: We detected what appeared to be a Federation signal buoy. When we approached it, it emitted a massive verteron pulse. Our warp drive, our sensors, our communications systems were all disabled. We assumed we were the victims of a new Federation weapon.
PICARD: The Federation established this corridor to ensure safe access through this sector. We have nothing to gain from mining it.
RIKER: Whatever happened to your ship may not have been an isolated incident. A Federation Medical transport was recently lost in that corridor.
PRAK: We passed a Federation ship several days ago. It did not appear to be in any distress.
RIKER: Can you give us an idea of its heading?
PRAK: It is possible that information was recorded in our sensor logs, Commander. Unfortunately, my entire crew is occupied with our repairs. I don't think there will be time to search our records.
PICARD: DaiMon, if we assigned an Engineering team to assist you with your repair efforts, would that give you time to retrieve your logs?
PRAK: I believe it would, Captain.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Spot. Spot. Spot, down. Spot, down. Down. Spot. Down. This is down. Down is good. This is up. Up is no.
DATA: One moment. Come in.
LAFORGE: Data. I had another idea that might help boost the power conversion levels. Could you give me a hand?
DATA: I would be happy to.
LAFORGE: Don't tell me you're trying to teach the cat to use the console.
DATA: It is part of her training program. I am teaching Spot to jump down from the desk on my command.
LAFORGE: How's it going?
DATA: I have not been entirely successful.
DATA: Feline supplement number two twenty one.
LAFORGE: Data, that cat definitely has a mind of her own. Maybe she's just not trainable.
DATA: I suppose I must accept that possibility. It may be that Spot lacks the intelligence necessary to learn the appropriate responses to my commands.
LAFORGE: I don't know about Spot, but it seems to me your training is coming along just fine. Come on, let's go.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, keep the EPS flow constant will you, while I re modulate the power taps.
DATA: This procedure will only increase the conversion level by point eight percent.
LAFORGE: I know, but it could be just enough.
DATA: Enough?
LAFORGE: I just received this from Commander Kaplan, subspace.
DATA: La Forge, I got the Intrepid's power conversion levels up to ninety seven point one percent. Maybe you should try cleaning your plasma grid once in a while.
LAFORGE: Can you believe the nerve of that guy?
DATA: We perform maintenance on the plasma grid at regular intervals.
LAFORGE: I know. He's just trying to get me angry. There. That should do it. Computer, what are the current power conversion levels?
COMPUTER: Power conversion levels are at ninety seven point two percent.
LAFORGE: Too bad, Mister Kaplan.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have traced the Fleming's most likely course. It now appears that the vessel may have come to an unfortunate end.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the origin of this debris field?
DATA: Unknown, sir. It does not appear in any Federation charts of the Corridor.
PICARD: Could it be what's left of the Fleming?
DATA: It is a possibility. The debris consists primarily of duranium and polycomposite fragments which suggest a ship. Furthermore, the field contains sufficient mass to account for the Fleming.
PICARD: All right, let's take a closer look. Perhaps we can find something that will give us a more positive identification. Helm, take us through the debris field, ahead slow.
DATA: Captain, I am picking up a small metallic object, approximately three point five meters in diameter.
RIKER: Could be a ship's log recorder, or a probe casing.
DATA: I do not believe so. It is emitting an unusual signal. Captain, it is beginning to generate a verteron field.
PICARD: Shields up! Full reverse. Now!
PICARD: Damage report.
WORF: Warp engines are offline. Shields are down. All subspace systems are inoperative.
RIKER: Just like the Ferengi ship.
DATA: Unidentified ship heading toward us. Two life forms are aboard.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Captain, they are initiating their transporter system.
PICARD: Can we get more power to the shields?
WORF: No, sir.
RIKER: All decks, security alert.
DATA: Captain, we are being boarded.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We have intruders in main Engineering. I need a security team down here immediately.
WORF (voiceover): It's on its way.
LAFORGE: What do you want?
RABAL: We're trying to make you listen.
SEROVA: You're killing us.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: You have made a very serious accusation. I want you to explain it.
RABAL: Captain, according to our research, warp fields cause a dangerous reaction in this region of space.
SEROVA: Our planet is already being affected. We have measured large gravitational shifts throughout our system.
RABAL: If something isn't done, our planet will become uninhabitable.
LAFORGE: Captain, I've heard this theory before. Their research was evaluated by the Federation Science Council a few years ago. Quite frankly, it didn't hold up.
SEROVA: That research was only preliminary. Our original analysis was incomplete.
PICARD: If you wanted us to review your research, you should have made a request through the Science Council.
RABAL: Their resources are limited. It would have taken over a year before they dispatched a science ship to come and evaluate our work.
SEROVA: We were not willing to wait any longer. We knew that if we disabled enough ships, Starfleet would come. Then at least we would be able to present our case.
RIKER: That's how you rationalize these attacks?
SEROVA: Neither you nor the Ferengi suffered any casualties, Commander. The actual damage to your vessels was negligible.
RABAL: We dispersed verteron probes in the Corridor merely to disable warp-driven ships. Nothing more.
RIKER: You can call it whatever you like. The fact remains you deliberately disguised your probes. You made them look like signal markers. You hid them in debris field. You mined the Corridor.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how long do you estimate it will take to restore the engines?
LAFORGE: Their verteron pulse overloaded our field coils, Captain. It'll take at least thirty six hours to get underway.
SEROVA: I know precisely how our pulse affected your field coils. With my help, your ship could be operational in ten hours. Provided you agree to review our research.
PICARD: Because of the seriousness of your claim, I'm willing to listen to your case. But let there be no mistake. Our priority here is the recovery of the Fleming. Now I expect you to help us restore our engines and deactivate all of the remaining probes in the Corridor. If you do not, you will both be taken to the brig and from there to the nearest Starbase, where you will answer charges for what you have done.
RABAL: My sister and I do not wish to impede your rescue process.
SEROVA: Rabal, don't. The probes are the only leverage we have. If we
RABAL: Serova. We will do as you ask, Captain. But please, re-examine our data.
PICARD: We will. It is part of our job to retain an open mind, even under these circumstances. Mister La Forge, take them to Engineering. Get the core back online.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to review their research. I'd like your report as soon as possible.

[Engineering]
SEROVA: There. Shields have been restored. You will be able to reengage your engines in approximately eight hours.
LAFORGE: You know, even when we get the engines online, it's going to take at least a week to recalibrate them properly.
SEROVA: I'm sorry you've been inconvenienced. But that's all it is, an inconvenience. Our concerns are much more important than the condition of your engines.
LAFORGE: What if the Fleming had been transporting perishable supplies or was on an emergency mission? Your little plan might have cost a lot of lives.
SEROVA: That didn't happen, Commander. And saving lives is precisely what we're trying to do.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, you have a very interesting way of going about it.
SEROVA: There's no point in trying to talk to you. You've already decided not to listen.
RABAL: Commander, I know my sister can be somewhat, er, aggravating.
LAFORGE: I'd have to agree with that.
RABAL: But please, try to understand. She believes profoundly in this cause. She has sworn to dedicate her life to exposing the dangers of warp drive.
LAFORGE: Warp drive has been around for three centuries. It's a proven technology.
RABAL: And you sound just like I did, about four years ago.
LAFORGE: You mean you didn't believe her either?
RABAL: No. What I didn't realize was just how brilliant my sister is. It took two years of study for me even to grasp the principles behind her theoretical models. They're that sophisticated.
LAFORGE: Well our Commander Data's no slouch. If there's anything there, he'll find it.
RABAL: Well I hope so, because once we persuade Starfleet to stop warp travel through the Corridor, we're going to have to convince our own people to give up warp drive completely.
LAFORGE: Hekaras Two is the only inhabited world in this region. Without warp drive, you'd be completely isolated from the rest of the Federation. Are you really willing to take that step?
RABAL: Yes. And if you were in my position, I hope you'd be willing to do the same thing.

[Stellar Cartography]
DATA: Serova and Rabal believe there are regions of potential subspace instability within the Corridor. They believe that if these regions continue to be exposed to warp field energy, they will rupture. Subspace will extrude into normal space, forming a rift.
PICARD: It's like pacing up and down on the same piece of carpet. Eventually you wear it out.
DATA: That analogy is essentially correct, sir.
PICARD: Can this theory be proven?
DATA: Not at this time, sir. There is insufficient evidence to do so. In order to determine whether or not a rift will form, region must be exposed to warp field energy approximately one million times greater than that normally generated by a starship.
RABAL: Commander, we believe the warp field effect is cumulative. Each starship that passes through the Corridor at warp brings us one step closer to forming a rift.
DATA: I agree that is a possibility. Captain, I suggest we ask the Federation Science Council to send a research vessel to this area. A more detailed investigation would resolve many of our questions.
SEROVA: That's your response? More research? More delays. I suppose I shouldn't have expected anything different.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): We've located the

[Bridge]
RIKER: Fleming on long range sensors, approximately zero point three light years away.
PICARD (voiceover): What's their condition?
RIKER: The vessel appears to be intact. They have shields, but it looks like their subspace systems are out.
PICARD (voiceover): Very well.

[Stellar Cartography]
PICARD: We'll be underway as soon as our engines are online.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: I would like you all to put together a research proposal for the Science Council. I'll give it my full recommendation.
RABAL: Captain, I appreciate the opportunity you're giving us. It's a beginning that we need
SEROVA: Not we. You can do whatever you want, Rabal. I'll have no part of this. It's just another delay.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, the engines are back online. All systems are ready.
PICARD: Very good. Helm, lay in a course for the Fleming.
HELM: Aye, sir.
RIKER: They appear to be in pretty good condition. According to our sensors their shields back to full strength.
WORF: Captain, the Hekaran ship is moving off. There is one person on board. It is Serova.
PICARD: Doctor, what is going on?
RABAL: I don't know. Captain, may I speak to her?
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel.
RABAL: Serova, what are you trying to do?
SEROVA (screen): They wanted proof. I'm going to give it to them. I'm sorry.
DATA: Captain, the Hekaran ship's engines are beginning to overload. I believe Serova's attempting to create a warp core breach.
RABAL: No!
RIKER: Prepare for impact.
RIKER: Shields at maximum. Full reverse.
PICARD: Report!
DATA: We have cleared the shock wave. However, tetryon flux in the area is increasing rapidly.
RIKER: It's incredible.
PICARD: Mister Data, what's your analysis?
DATA: The event is approximately zero point one light years in diameter, and it is emitting extremely high levels of tetryon radiation. It appears to be what Rabal and Serova predicted, a subspace rift.
LAFORGE: She was right.
PICARD: Can you get a fix on the Fleming? Is she still in one piece?
DATA: Scanning. The Fleming is near its previous coordinates. It appears to be intact, but it is now within the rift.
PICARD: Doctor, is it possible for a ship to survive in there? Doctor. I'm sorry about your loss but we need your help now.
RABAL: Of course, Captain.
PICARD: Does the rift pose any danger to the Fleming?
RABAL: I don't know.
RIKER: What was that?
LAFORGE: Some kind of high energy distortion wave. Looks like they're being generated from within the rift.
DATA: IF we maintain our current position, our shields should provide sufficient protection.
PICARD: What about the Fleming? How long can they survive in there?
DATA: The waves are even more intense within the rift. I estimate her shields will fail in approximately twelve hours.
RIKER: Can we risk going in there to get them out?
LAFORGE: Not at warp, Commander. According to these readings, the rift is in a state of accelerating instability which would make it extremely sensitive to warp field energy. If we go in at warp, we might make it expand even further.
RIKER: I don't think we have a choice. It would take weeks to reach them at impulse.
PICARD: I want some better options. Data, Geordi, take Doctor Rabal and begin an analysis of the rift. We need to find some way to get the Fleming out of there. Second Officer's log, stardate 47312.1. Our new sensor readings have greatly improved our understanding of the rift. However, we have been unable to find any way to counteract it.

[Stellar Cartography]
LAFORGE: Everything here supports Serova's theories. I can't find any way to close the rift or even reduce its size.
DATA: Doctor, is it possible there are areas inside the rift which are stable, where we can safely use our warp engines?
RABAL: Perhaps. Computer, scan the rift for regions of low instability.
RABAL: There's no area stable enough to withstand a warp pulse.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. This is strange. Computer, display grid delta seventeen. Enhance and magnify. What do you make of that?
RABAL: It's a subspace instability outside the rift.
DATA: That should not be possible.
RABAL: Commander, I'm going to begin a field enhanced scan of this sector. I'd like to take a closer look at this.
LAFORGE: In the meantime, we'd better tell the Captain we don't know how to get to the Fleming.
DATA: I am not certain that is true. I believe I have an idea.

[Ready room]
DATA: I suggest we coast into the rift.
RIKER: Coast?
DATA: We can initiate a brief, high intensity warp pulse from our current position. We should be able to attain sufficient velocity to enter the rift, beam the crew off the Fleming and exit without using our warp engines.
RIKER: All right, let's say we initiate a full power warp pulse. How much time do we need to drop out of warp?
DATA: If we field saturate the nacelles, we should be able to sustain warp speed for approximately two minutes.
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time, and it could get pretty rough in there.
DATA: The timing will be critical.
PICARD: Begin your calculations, Mister Data. We'll go as soon as you're ready.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
DATA: I believe the maximum saturation level should be eighteen point three percent.
LAFORGE: All right. With these parameters, we should be able to maintain warp speed for two minutes eight seconds. I don't think we can get any more than that.
DATA: I agree. But based on the size of the rift, it should give us sufficient time to complete the rescue. Computer, initiate nacelle field saturation.
LAFORGE: How did we miss it, Data?
DATA: I beg your pardon?
LAFORGE: How did we miss the connection between warp drive and the formation of the rift? Between the two of us we've logged thousands of hours on these engines. We're supposed to be warp field experts. We certainly were wrong this time.
DATA: Technically, Geordi, we were not wrong. Serova's theories rested on assumptions which were unprovable.
LAFORGE: Seems to me she managed to prove them pretty conclusively.
DATA: By using methods any reputable scientist would never employ.
LAFORGE: Yeah, she was willing to die to make her point. We should have listened to her more closely, Data.
DATA: We reviewed Serova's research to the best of our abilities, and we were prepared to continue studying the problem. But that was not satisfactory.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I can remember times when I was a little stubborn, trying to get people to believe me when I didn't have enough proof.
DATA: I do not believe that you would have resorted to such extremes.
LAFORGE: But she had to, just to get us to listen. Why was I so resistant?
DATA: Perhaps because her aggressive methods created an adversarial situation.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Maybe I was taking the whole thing personally.
DATA: I do not understand.
LAFORGE: Maybe I was a little threatened. The thought that warp engines might be doing some kind of damage. It's going to take another half an hour for the nacelles to saturate. Will you call me when they're done?

[Ten Forward]
RABAL: Commander.
LAFORGE: May I join you?
LAFORGE: I wanted to say I'm sorry about your sister.
RABAL: Thank you. I'm trying to tell myself that she died for what she believed in, but somehow that isn't much comfort.
LAFORGE: I wish it could have happened differently. Maybe I should have looked at the research more closely. It's possible there's something that I missed.
RABAL: No. You didn't miss anything. The problem was time. We needed more time to do the proper research. Serova wasn't willing to wait.
LAFORGE: No. I guess the question is now, where do we go from here?
RABAL: I don't think we can look at space travel the same way anymore. We're going to have to change.
LAFORGE: I've been in Starfleet for a long time. We depend on warp drive. I just don't know how easy it's going to be to change.
RABAL: It won't be easy at all.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, warp pulse calculations are complete. We will be firing the engines at maximum intensity for six point three seconds before disengaging.
WORF: Damage control teams are standing by on all decks.
RIKER: The course to the Fleming is plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, whenever you're ready.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Initiating warp pulse now.

[Bridge]
DATA: Engines disengaged. We are now entering the rift. Hull stress is increasing. Eighty three percent of maximum tolerance and rising.
PICARD: How long until we reach the Fleming?
WORF: One minute twenty two seconds.
RIKER: All transporter rooms are standing by.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Fleming. They may be attempting to initiate their warp drive.
RIKER: They might have been able to repair their engines.
DATA: Captain, if they activate
PICARD: I know, Mister Data. Can we establish communication?
WORF: No, sir. Subspace interference is too high.
PICARD: How long until we reach transporter range?
WORF: Fifty three seconds.
RIKER: I don't think we're going to make it.
WORF: Captain, they have initiated their warp drive.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Damage on decks six and fourteen. Our structural integrity field is holding.
RIKER: What about the Fleming?
DATA: They are badly damaged, sir. Their life support systems are failing.
RIKER: All transporter rooms, prepare emergency evacuation procedures.
DATA: Captain, when the Fleming activated their warp drive, the rift expanded by two point three percent. We no longer have sufficient momentum to escape.
DATA: Distortion wave intensity has increased by a factor of ten.
WORF: We are within transporter range of the Fleming, sir. Commencing evacuation procedures.
DATA: Distortion waves occurring every fifty nine seconds. Hull stress is nearing maximum tolerance.
RIKER: Data, what if we forced an EPS discharge through the impulse reactor. Would that be enough to get us out of here?
DATA: I do not believe so, sir, and the resulting explosion would likely destroy the saucer section in the process.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We might be able to get out of here without using the warp engines.
RIKER: How, Geordi?
LAFORGE: When was the last time you went surfing, Commander?

[Bridge]
PICARD: A distortion wave.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Exactly, Captain. If can phase match our deflector shield

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: To the EM variance of the distortion wave, when the next one hits we'll be pulled along with it.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We could ride it through the rift and then break away once we're clear. That is, if we survive the ride.
PICARD: Is everyone off the Fleming?
WORF: The last of the crew has been beamed aboard, sir.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, get us out of here.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Phase matching the deflectors shield now.

[Bridge]
DATA: The next distortion wave will impact in fourteen seconds.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Matching phases. Prepare to engage the deflector shield on my mark.
DATA (voiceover): Ten seconds.
LAFORGE: And mark.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Engage deflector shield. Full power.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We lost it.

[Engineering]
DATA: We were unable to maintain phase match with the distortion wave, sir.
PICARD: What went wrong, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE (voiceover): The speed differential was too high, Captain.
DATA: Another distortion wave approaching. Impact in twenty six seconds.
RIKER: Our hull stress is already critical. We can't handle many more jolts like that.
DATA: Captain, I suggest we take the ship to full impulse. If we can attain sufficient speed, it will lessen the shock when the wave hits.
PICARD: Helm, full impulse. Head us out of the rift. Mister Worf, channel all available power to the structural integrity fields.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Stand by deflector shield.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Distortion wave impact in five seconds.
PICARD: Engage deflector shield, now.
DATA: We are now within the distortion wave. Hull stresses have exceeded maximum tolerance.
WORF: Structural integrity fields are failing on decks ten through sixteen. Switching to backups.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're separating from the distortion wave. I'm attempting to compensate.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How much longer until we clear the rift?
DATA: Approximately twelve seconds, sir. Hull stresses one hundred twenty percent above tolerance.
WORF: A structural breach is imminent.
DATA: We have cleared the rift, sir. Hull stress has returned to normal.
PICARD: Cancel red alert.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47314.5. We have been continuing our research, while the Federation Council studies our preliminary reports on the subspace rift. It now appears certain that what we've seen here will have repercussions for many years to come.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Our scans have shown a lot of subspace instabilities throughout the sector. If they're exposed to enough warp energies, they could eventually create other rifts.
PICARD: Doctor Rabal?
RABAL: Based on current warp drive patterns in the sector, we've projected where subspace rifts will be most likely to be formed over the next forty years. This is the way things are now. This is how they'll look in ten years. Twenty years. Thirty years. Forty years.
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor, Mister La Forge.
PICARD: Ah. We've received new directives from the Federation Council on this matter. Until we can find a way to counteract the warp field effect, the Council feels our best course is to slow the damage as much as possible. Therefore, areas of space found susceptible to warp fields will be restricted to essential travel only, and effective immediately all Federation vessels will be limited to a speed of warp five, except in cases of extreme emergency.
WORF: The Klingons will observe these restrictions, but the Romulans will not.
TROI: And what about the Ferengi? And the Cardassians, for that matter?
PICARD: The Federation's sharing all our data with warp-capable species. We can only hope that they realize it's in their own interests and take similar action.
CRUSHER: Putting limits on warp speed is only going to prevent other rifts from forming. What are we going to do about this one?
LAFORGE: Unfortunately, right now there's not much we can do.
RABAL: The gravitational shifts have already begun to affect my planet's orbit. Our climate is changing.
PICARD: The Federation is setting up a weather control matrix on Hekaras Two. It's only a temporary solution, but it should suffice for now.
RIKER: We're lucky the rift took place as far away from the planet as it did. It gives us some time to consider our options.
PICARD: If there are no more questions, you're all dismissed.
LAFORGE: We should have those thermal stabilizers ready for the Hekarans in another day, sir.
PICARD: Very well. You know, Geordi, I spent the better part of my life exploring space. I've charted new worlds, I've met dozens of new species. And I believe that these were all valuable ends in themselves. Now it seems that all this while, I was helping to damage the thing that I hold most dear.
LAFORGE: It's won't turn out that way, Captain. We still have time to make it better.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47410.2. The Atrean government has requested assistance in averting a natural disaster. Two of their geologists have come aboard, one of whom is a human who has been living on Atrea Four.

[Observation lounge]
JULIANA: Captain, our situation has worsened since my husband and I first contacted you. The molten core of our planet is not just cooling, it's begun to solidify.
PRAN: Our gravitational field has been affected. Seismic activity has increased by a factor of three.
JULIANA: If the cooling continues at this rate Atrea will become uninhabitable in thirteen months.
LAFORGE: We could minimize seismic activity by creating isobaric fissures and relieving some of the tectonic stress, but that would just be a temporary fix.
DATA: The only permanent solution would be to re-liquefy the core.
LAFORGE: These pockets in the magma layer, how close are they to the molten region of the core?
JULIANA: A few kilometers, why?
LAFORGE: Data, do you think that's close enough for ferro-plasmic infusion?
DATA: The procedure will involve using the ship's phasers to drill down through the planet's surface into the pockets, where we would set up a series of plasma infusion units.
LAFORGE: We'll trigger the units by firing modulated energy bursts down through the shafts.
JULIANA: I see. Injecting sufficient plasma directly into the core should trigger a chain reaction, and that will reliquify the magma.
DATA: It should be possible to stabilize the core temperature at ninety three percent of normal.
PRAN: If it works, the core would remain molten for centuries.
PICARD: If you give your permission, we could begin immediately.
PRAN: Very well. But before we proceed, I'd like to update our geological surveys.
LAFORGE: Fine. I'd be very happy to help you with that, Doctor.
PICARD: I've assigned you quarters during out time here. Please, make yourselves comfortable.
PRAN: Thank you, Captain.
JULIANA: Data?
DATA: Yes, Doctor?
JULIANA: Do you have any idea who I am?
DATA: You are Doctor Juliana Tainer.
JULIANA: You lost all your early memories. We thought you would, but we couldn't be certain.
DATA: Have we met before?
JULIANA: Oh, Data, I was there, right at the beginning on Omicron Theta. I helped create you. Now look at you.
DATA: You were a colleague of Doctor Soong?
JULIANA: Yes, I certainly was. And I was also his wife. In a way, I suppose you could say I am your mother.

[Ten Forward]
JULIANA: I still can't believe I'm seeing you like this again, after all these years.
DATA: Doctor, I have no memory of you.
JULIANA: Oh, there's a reason for that. We wiped your processors after we finished refining your programming. Why don't you tell me what you do remember, and then I'll fill in the gaps.
DATA: My memory record begins when I was activated by the Starfleet officers on the Omicron Theta outpost.
JULIANA: After the attack of the Crystalline Entity.
DATA: Yes. All of the inhabitants of the colony were killed. However, I discovered that my memory banks contained the contents of their journals and logs.
JULIANA: We hoped their experiences would be useful. After your childhood, we figured you could use all the help you could get.
DATA: My childhood?
JULIANA: That's what I called it. You were like a baby, at first. A hundred kilogram baby, but still. You had trouble learning your motor skills, learning how to process sensory information. And of course Noonian was never satisfied. He kept tinkering, trying to make you as human as possible.
DATA: So you wiped my memory processors after this childhood.
JULIANA: Then we deactivated you and programmed you with the colonists' logs. We had planned to reactivate you, but we never got the chance. That's when the Crystalline Entity attacked. We had to leave quickly. We wanted to take you with us, but there was only room for two in the escape pod.
DATA: Doctor, I have scanned the journals of the colonists. There is only one Juliana mentioned in them. Her last name was O'Donnell.
JULIANA: That's me.
DATA: But there was no mention that my father was married to you.
JULIANA: Because of my mother. She thought that Noonian was an eccentric scientist who was too old for me. We decided to marry secretly to give her a chance to get used to our being together. We slipped away to Mavala Four and got married there. A Klingon and a Corvallan trader were our witnesses. It wasn't exactly the wedding I'd hoped for. Somehow Noonian had a way of making even the oddest things seem romantic.
DATA: My father did have an unusual way of looking at things.
JULIANA: How would you know that?
DATA: I encountered him once in the Terlina system.
JULIANA: That's where we went to after we left the outpost. I had no idea that you'd even met him.
DATA: It was shortly before his death.
JULIANA: He's dead?
DATA: Yes.
JULIANA: I had no idea it would hit me this hard. We didn't exactly part on the best of terms.
DATA: What do you mean?
JULIANA: I realized he loved his work as much as he loved me. Maybe more. There we were, stuck on this planet in the middle of the jungle with no one else to talk to. No life. It just wasn't enough. That's why I left. That was all a very, very long time ago. The important thing is that we're here now together. And I do want to get to know you.
DATA: This has been an interesting encounter, and an altogether unexpected one. I would like to corroborate your story before we proceed further. Excuse me, Doctor.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, I'm almost finished reconfiguring the phaser banks. We should be able to start drilling in about an hour.
DATA: Inform me when you are ready.
LAFORGE: What is it you're doing over there?
DATA: I am attempting to ascertain whether Doctor Tainer's story is true.
LAFORGE: Don't you believe her?
DATA: I neither believe nor doubt. I am simply attempting to verify her assertions.
LAFORGE: Well, what have you turned up so far?
DATA: The Registrar's Office on Mavala Four cannot confirm whether Doctor Soong was married there. Apparently many of the documents were lost when the government was overthrown.
LAFORGE: What's that you're looking at?
DATA: I am checking passenger manifests to see if they went to Mavala during the period in question. O'Donnell, Juliana. Soong, Noonian. They were both passengers on a transport which traveled from Omicron Theta to Mavala and returned four days later.
LAFORGE: That sure fits with her story.
DATA: Still, the fact that they went to Mavala does not prove they were married there.
LAFORGE: You know, Data, it almost seems to me like you're trying to prove that Doctor Tainer wasn't telling the truth.
DATA: Not at all. I am merely unable to reconcile her story with the fact that my father never mentioned her to me.
LAFORGE: Well, she did leave him. Maybe she broke his heart. Maybe he just didn't want to talk about her. Let me ask you this. Doctor Soong created an emotion chip. Didn't Lore tell you that chip also contained memories, memories Soong wanted you to have?
DATA: Yes. It is possible that those are memories of my childhood. And of Mrs Soong.
LAFORGE: When you think about it, why would she want to lie? Why would anybody want to pretend to be your mother?
DATA: I can think of no motive for such a pretense.
LAFORGE: And I can understand that this might all be a little disconcerting for you, Data. It came out of the blue, and it doesn't fit into your logical processors.
DATA: That is true.
LAFORGE: But that's life, Data. Part of being human is learning how to deal with the unexpected. To risk new experiences even when they don't fit into your preconceptions.
DATA: I admit I am finding it difficult to accept the possibility of a past about which I know nothing. But it is also true that I am curious to learn more about it.

[Ten Forward]
JULIANA: Data?
DATA: I would like to get to know you better, Mother.

[Corridor]
JULIANA: I wanted to make you female, but your father insisted on a son. We argued about it endlessly, right up until we were ready to assemble you.
DATA: How did you decide?
JULIANA: Noonian walked in with your head in his hand and, innocent as you please, said it was up to me. He knew perfectly well what he was doing. Once again he had made it in his own image. What could I possibly say? Deanna Troi, is that who you're going to visit?
DATA: Yes.
JULIANA: Your father would be so pleased.
DATA: Pleased?
JULIANA: He was worried that the sexuality program he designed for you wouldn't work.
DATA: You misunderstand. Counselor Troi is a therapist.
JULIANA: Goodnight.

[Engineering]
DATA: We will be in position over the drilling site in three minutes twenty nine seconds.
DATA: These scans indicate that the magma pockets where we plan to set up the infusion units are somewhat unstable.
JULIANA: I'm going to monitor the density of the rock layers and adjust the strength of the particle beam as we go. That should minimize the seismic stress that we generate while we're drilling.
LAFORGE: Data, I reconfigured the phasers to create the most highly focused particle beam possible.
DATA: Thank you, Geordi.
JULIANA: I'm just so pleased you've got good manners. It wasn't easy to strike the right balance with your programming. At first you couldn't have cared less about the social niceties like please and thank you. You were downright rude, in fact.
LAFORGE: Data? That's hard to picture.
JULIANA: That was nothing to the problems we encountered. Never mind. I don't want to embarrass you.
DATA: I am incapable of embarrassment. Please continue.
JULIANA: Well, the one thing we couldn't anticipate was that you didn't seem to mind about being naked. Some of the colonists objected to having an anatomically correct android running around without any clothes on. We asked you to dress, but you didn't feel it was necessary because you didn't suffer from the elements. We actually had to write a modesty sub-routine to get you to keep your clothes on.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering.
LAFORGE: La Forge here. Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER (voiceover): We've established a synchronous orbit over the drilling site.
LAFORGE: Phaser modifications are online, sir.
DATA: My calculations indicate

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): The first phaser blast will be approximately nineteen seconds in duration.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
PRAN: Someone's checked his calculations, of course.
RIKER: No, but I'm sure Mister Data knows what he's doing.
PRAN: Even so, he is a machine. Someone should check up on him.
RIKER: I have complete confidence in Mister Data's ability to check up on himself. Mister Worf?
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
RIKER: Fire when ready.

[Engineering]
DATA: We are within two kilometers of the magma pocket.
JULIANA: Another five seconds should do it. We've broken through.

[Bridge]
WORF: Terminating the beam.

[Engineering]
JULIANA: The pocket seems stable.
DATA: I detect no increase in the stress levels of the surrounding magma.
RIKER (voiceover): Good work, Data.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't think we could have gotten it any cleaner.
JULIANA (voiceover): We have Data to thank for that. I couldn't have done it without him. His figures were perfect.

[Engineering]
DATA: The drilling process has raised the temperature in the magma pockets by almost three hundred degrees Celsius. It will be several hours before it cools enough for us to enter.
JULIANA: Data, do you have any plans right now?
DATA: I do not.
JULIANA: Maybe we should spend a little time together? I'd love to see your quarters.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Thank you. I will be playing this piece at a recital tomorrow evening.
JULIANA: That was beautiful.
DATA: I have been told that my playing is technically flawless, but no one has described it as beautiful.
JULIANA: It was, really.
DATA: Are you certain you are not saying this because you are my mother? I have noticed that parents tend to exaggerate when it comes to their children's accomplishments.
JULIANA: I suppose there's a certain amount of vanity involved, considering that giving you a creative aspect was my idea. Your father didn't really see the point. He thought that since you didn't have emotions, there would be no real need for you to express yourself. Somehow I had the feeling the opposite would be true.
DATA: I do not know for certain, but I believe it is during my creative endeavors that I come closest to experiencing what it must be like to be human.
JULIANA: Well, I'm glad I insisted.
DATA: As am I.
JULIANA: Data, I'm very familiar with that Handel piece. How would you feel about my playing the viola part tomorrow?
DATA: I would like that very much.
JULIANA: I'll have to practice. You don't have a viola?
DATA: I could replicate one for you. Computer, please replicate one viola.
JULIANA: Did you paint these?
DATA: Yes. I am attempting to master all known styles of painting. This one is in the style of the early French impressionists.
JULIANA: It's very good. Who's this?
DATA: That is Lal, my daughter.
JULIANA: Your daughter?
DATA: I created her, using myself as a model.
JULIANA: Where is she now?
DATA: The positronic matrix I designed for her was unstable. She only lived a short time.
JULIANA: I see.
DATA: In a sense, you were her grandmother. Would you like to practice now?
JULIANA: Yes. Yes, of course.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: The acoustics in Ten Forward are most favorable.
JULIANA: Yes, yes, very nice. Data, may I ask you something?
DATA: Of course.
JULIANA: Do you think you'll ever try to create an android again?
DATA: Perhaps. I created Lal because I wished to procreate. Despite what happened to her, I still have that wish.
JULIANA: How do you know the same thing won't happen? Creating a stable positronic matrix is very tricky. Your father lost several prototypes before Lore.
DATA: I was not aware he created other androids before my brother.
JULIANA: There were three of them. They were like children to us. Losing them was very painful. When Noonian decided to try again, I was very much against it. I didn't think we had the right to bring a life into the world with so little chance of surviving. But your Father was sure that he'd figured out what went wrong, insisted he could make a stable matrix, and he did. But Lore was cruel. Evil. Eventually we had no choice, we had to dismantle him. Your father decided to build yet another android, one who didn't have emotions. I couldn't believe he would want to try again.
DATA: I am that android. Are you saying you were against my creation?
JULIANA: Initially I was. But I was wrong, I know that now. I've followed your progress for years. I'm very proud of what you've accomplished.
DATA: Then why did you never attempt to contact me?
JULIANA: Because I felt guilty about something I'd done.
DATA: Perhaps if you told me what has made you feel this way, it may alleviated the guilt.
JULIANA: I lied. When I said there was no room for you in the escape pod that we took from Omicron. There was. I didn't want to bring you with us. I was afraid if we reactivated you, you'd turn out like Lore. I made Noonian leave you behind.

[Engineering]
DATA: We are within four kilometers of the magma pocket.
LAFORGE: We're picking up feedback pulses along the particle beam.
JULIANA: We must have hit a pocket of magnesite ore. I'll try to adjust the phaser harmonics to compensate.
RIKER (voiceover): Data, we're going to have to terminate the beam if this keeps up.
DATA: If we do, we will have to begin a new shaft at a suitable location.
JULIANA: There is no other suitable location. Just give me a few more seconds.
LAFORGE: Doctor, it's going to take longer than that to match the
LAFORGE: You did it.
JULIANA: It was just luck I hit the right frequency. All right, we're less than two kilometers away from the target site. Stand by to terminate the beam.
LAFORGE: We've broken through.
JULIANA: Now.
DATA: I am detecting no signs of

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): Instability.
PRAN: Commander, may I suggest we set up the infusion unit in the first magma pocket and give this one a chance to cool.
RIKER: Data

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): Doctor Tainer, we'll meet you in transporter room two.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Magma pocket]
DATA: I have initialized the plasma induction coils.
JULIANA: I'll need another minute to align the diverter.
PRAN: There are signs of stress in the surrounding magma, but the site should remain stable until we finish the plasma infusion.
JULIANA: Good, we're almost done here.
PRAN: Data, Juliana told me what she said to you last night. She's been very upset. I don't blame you for being angry with her
DATA: I am incapable of anger.
JULIANA: It's all right, Pran. I know what I said to you must have been hard to hear, but I hope you understand my reasons.
DATA: I am not certain I do. Perhaps you could clarify them for me?
JULIANA: Well, I'll try. What do you want to know?
DATA: If I had been your biological offspring, would you have left me on Omicron Theta?
JULIANA: Oh, Data, how can I answer that?
DATA: Doctor Tainer, I get the impression you are trying to spare my feelings. I assure you that is not necessary.
JULIANA: I just don't want you to misunderstand my answer. No, I wouldn't have left you behind if you'd been my biological child.
DATA: Is that because you place more value on biological life than on artificial life?
JULIANA: Absolutely not. I cherished every android your father and I created as if it were my child. Even Lore. Despite the fact that he turned on us, despite the dreadful things he did, dismantling him was the most difficult thing I ever had to do. I was afraid that if you turned out like him I would have to dismantle you, too. And I couldn't bear to do that. I'm not trying to justify leaving you behind. I'm just sorry I did. I hope you believe me.
DATA: I do. Thank you for making it clear to me.

[Ten Forward]
AUDIENCE: Bravo, bravo.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Data, why do you want to look at Doctor Tainer's medical records? Is something wrong with her?
DATA: I was hoping you would be able to determine that from her transporter trace pattern.
CRUSHER: Well, probably I could, but ordinarily I don't check somebody's medical status without a good reason.
DATA: Doctor, I would ask that you not require me to be more specific. I assure you, I have a good reason for asking.
CRUSHER: All right, Data. At first glance I see nothing wrong with her. Except for a mild case of hypertension, which is normal for a woman her age.
DATA: I see.
CRUSHER: Maybe you should tell me what her symptoms are.
DATA: She has not complained of any discomfort.
CRUSHER: Then why do you want to see her medical records?
DATA: Because I have reason to believe she is not who she claims to be.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Data.
DATA: Go ahead, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): There's been a cave-in in one of the magma pockets. You're needed in transporter room two.
DATA: On my way. Excuse me, Doctor.

[Transporter room]
JULIANA: What happened?
PRAN: We were running a final check on the infusion units when a part of the wall gave way.
LAFORGE: It looks like the area has stabilized, but seismic stress is building up. Eventually, the pocket will collapse.
RIKER (voiceover): How long, Geordi?
LAFORGE: It's tough to tell, Commander. Twelve hours at most.
JULIANA: Then we must finish configuring the unit and inject the plasma immediately.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'd rather not send anyone back down there.
JULIANA (voiceover): If you don't do it

[Transporter room]
JULIANA: Now, Commander, it may take months to find another suitable site. The core may solidify by then.
PRAN: She's right, we have to act now.
RIKER (voiceover): All right, but I want you in and out of there as quickly as possible.
DATA: Acknowledged.
JULIANA: You're hurt. I'll go.

[Magma pocket]
DATA: There will be more seismic activity. We must hurry.
DATA: The shaft has not been obstructed by the seismic activity. It should be possible to trigger the unit from orbit.
JULIANA: The infuser's been damaged. We're going to have to start the programming sequence all over again.
DATA: Priming the energy-transfer matrix.
JULIANA: Re-initializing the particle stream buffer.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Data. Are you there?
DATA: Go ahead, sir.
RIKER (voiceover): We're reading an increase in seismic stress levels.
DATA: Understood, sir. We will attempt to expedite our work.
JULIANA: There. Now we just have to re-align the diverter.
RIKER (voiceover): Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir. We'll be returning to the beam-out point shortly.
JULIANA: That's it. Let's go.
JULIANA: Can we transport without the pattern enhancers?
DATA: No, we are too far below the surface.
JULIANA: How are we going to get down there?
DATA: There are no handholds in the rock face. We are going to have to jump.
JULIANA: No, it's too far! I won't make it!
DATA: You will.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Basically she's a Soong-type android, except everything about her is designed to fool you into thinking she's human.
CRUSHER: She's got tear ducts, sweat glands, even veins and capillaries underneath her skin.
RIKER: Why does the scanner read her as a human?
CRUSHER: Because she has a feedback processor designed to send out a false bio-signal.
LAFORGE: It's part of her aging program. Not only does she age in appearance like Data, her vital signs change too.
CRUSHER: What I can't figure out is why she lost consciousness. As far as I can see, everything is fine. She should be awake.
DATA: Check her positronic matrix. There may be a cascade anomaly.
RIKER: You said you knew she was an android. How?
DATA: The first indication occurred when we were digging. I saw her perform complex calculations without the assistance of the computer.
RIKER: That could have just meant she was good at math.
DATA: That is true, but it was enough to get my attention. Later, I noticed something odd about the way she blinked her eyes. The intervals between blinks were governed by the Fourier system, the same mathematical formula my father used to give my blinking pattern the appearance of randomness.
RIKER: Only you could have noticed something like that.
DATA: Then there was the concert in Ten Forward.
RIKER: What about it?
DATA: We had practiced the piece, and I noticed that she played it the same way during the performance. Every pitch, every intonation, was exactly the same. Only an artificial life form could have done that.
RIKER: Does her husband know anything about this?
DATA: I do not believe so. He is on the surface monitoring the plasma infusion.
RIKER: Probably just as well.
LAFORGE: Data, come take a look at this.
DATA: It appears to be an information module. With a holographic interface.

[Holodeck]
SOONG: Whoever you are, you must have found out about Juliana.
DATA: That is correct.
SOONG: I programmed this hologram to answer any questions you might have. I am Noonian Soong. I created her.
DATA: I am Data.
SOONG: Data? I hoped somehow it might be you. I even created a response program to answer your questions. How are you, boy?
DATA: I am fine.
SOONG: I'm glad you got the chance to meet your mother.
DATA: You refer to Doctor Tainer as my mother, yet the complexity of her design indicates she was created after I was.
SOONG: You're right. But there was a real Juliana O'Donnell. She was my wife. She helped me create you.
DATA: What happened to her?
SOONG: She was injured when the Crystalline Entity attacked. We made it as far as Terlina Three but, she slipped into a coma. When I realized nothing could be done for her, I built an android. I tried to perfect my synaptic scanning technique so that I could transfer Juliana's memories into a positronic matrix. I didn't know if it would work, but I had to try. I couldn't stand the thought of losing the only woman I ever loved. A few days after Juliana died, I activated the android. She looked up at me and smiled. She recognized me. It had worked! Here was a life not two minutes old, and as far as she knew I was her husband. She'd just recovered from a terrible injury. It was incredible.
DATA: Then you never told her the truth?
SOONG: Why? There was no reason for her to know. I wanted her to be happy. I wanted us to be happy. We were. For a while.
DATA: What happened?
SOONG: I made a terrible mistake. I never really let her know how much I loved her. So she left me. The real Juliana probably would have left too, if she'd lived.
DATA: If she recovers and learns that she is an android
SOONG: She doesn't have to know. I designed her to shut down in the event the truth was discovered. When you put that chip back in, she will wake up and remember nothing. All you have to do is make up some excuse about what happened to her.
DATA: Then you do not believe she should know the truth?
SOONG: Truth? The truth is, in every way that matters, she is Juliana Soong. I programmed her to terminate after a long life. Let her live out her days, and die believing she was human. Don't rob her of that, son. Please.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: It seems that I must make a decision. Whether to tell Doctor Tainer that she is an android or to withhold that information from her. I do not know what to do.
CRUSHER: Why was Doctor Soong so adamant that she not be told?
DATA: He seemed certain that if she knew, it would preclude the possibility of her being happy.
PICARD: Data, what do you think?
DATA: I am not certain. I understand why my father felt as he did, but his wishes are not necessarily paramount. I am more concerned with what would be best for her.
CRUSHER: Wouldn't she be better off knowing the truth? Dealing with the reality of her existence?
TROI: I don't think so. She's believed she's human all her life. The truth might be devastating to her.
PICARD: Data, there might come some time in the future when she would find out anyway. Another accident, perhaps. Maybe it would be easier for her if she learned the truth from you.
CRUSHER: I can tell you that if I were in her place, I would rather be told by my son than by some stranger.
DATA: I find I am having difficulty separating what would be best for her from what would be best for me.
TROI: What do you mean?
DATA: If she knew she were an android, we would have something to share. I would no longer be alone in the universe.
TROI: I know how much that means to you, Data, but at the same time, by telling her you're robbing her of the one thing you've wanted all your life. To be human.
PICARD: It's a difficult choice. You must do what you think best, Data. But whatever decision you make, we will support it.

[Sickbay]
JULIANA: Data? What happened? The last thing I remember is jumping off a cliff.
DATA: You were knocked unconscious by the fall. You broke a bone in your arm, but Doctor Crusher repaired it. Everything is fine.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The infusion of plasma into the core of Atrea Four has been accomplished. The core should remain molten for several hundred years.

[Transporter room]
JULIANA: When will I see you again?
DATA: Perhaps I can visit Atrea on my next leave.
JULIANA: I would like that very much. Well, I'd better be going.
DATA: There is something I thought you should know. My father told me that he had only one great love in his life and that he regretted never telling her how much he cared for her. I am certain he was referring to you.
JULIANA: That's nice to know. On Atrea there is a saying, that a child born from parents who love each other will have nothing but goodness in his heart. I guess that explains you. Take care of yourself, son.
DATA: Goodbye, Mother. Energize.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the Bat'leth competition on Forcas Three. The conditions were difficult. Several contenders were maimed. But I was triumphant. I won Champion Standing. I am looking forward to resuming my duties aboard the Enterprise. However, I am anticipating a troubling situation.

[Corridor]
RIKER: It looks like we're going to have to head into to the Argus Array. This is the third time this year it's stopped relaying data. Starfleet's beginning to think it's more than a simple malfunction. I want you to start a long range scan once we get. Lieutenant? Are you listening to me?
WORF: Hmm? Yes, sir.
RIKER: You seem awfully tense for a man who just came back from vacation.
WORF: Today is my birthday.

[Worf's quarters]
RIKER: What's the matter with you?
WORF: Because it is my birthday I assumed that you or one of the others would try to mount an unexpected social gathering.
RIKER: A surprise party? Mister Worf, I hate surprise parties. I would never do that to you.
WORF: I am sorry, Commander.
RIKER: Settle in. I'll meet you on the Bridge.
WORF: Aye sir.
ALL: Surprise!!
RIKER: I love surprise parties.
ALL: Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk. Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk. Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk. Tu Mak Dagh Cha doh Borak!
WORF: That was not a Klingon song.
TROI: It wasn't easy to translate. There doesn't seem to be a Klingon word for jolly.
CRUSHER: It's traditional for the birthday boy to cut the cake.
RIKER: Captain Picard sends his birthday wishes. He was needed on the Bridge.
DATA: Happy birthday, Worf.
WORF: Thank you.
WORF: Ah. A painting.
DATA: Yes. I have entered my Expressionistic phase. This is my interpretation of the Battle of HarOS.
WORF: The Battle of HarOS?
TROI: I think it's wonderful. And I know just where to put it.
WORF: What are you doing?
TROI: I always thought this room could use a little more color.
LAFORGE: Nice. The Battle of HarOS, right?
LAFORGE: Worf, are you all right?
WORF: Yes, Yes, I think Data's painting is making me dizzy.
CRUSHER: Some cake?
LAFORGE: Thank you, Doctor.
WORF: I thought the cake was chocolate.
TROI: Don't I wish. This is from Alexander. He gave it me just before he left to visit your parents. Thank you.
LAFORGE: What is it, Worf?
WORF: It is a cast of Alexander's forehead. The ridges of a warrior.
TROI: He wished he could have been here when you got back from shore leave. You should have seen him, Worf. He stayed up all night talking about how proud he was of his father.
WORF: Thank you for watching him while I was away.
TROI: Oh, it was my pleasure.
PICARD: So, how old are you, Mister Worf?
WORF: Captain, I was told you could not attend.
PICARD: I wouldn't miss this for the world. How old are you?
WORF: I am old enough.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
DATA: The Array appears to be functioning normally, sir.
RIKER: That can't be right. We were told the Array stopped relaying data six days ago.
DATA: The Array is still transmitting data, sir, but it is no longer sending that information to the Federation. It appears someone has redirected its imaging systems.
PICARD: Where is the information being sent now?
DATA: Sector one nine six five eight, sir. I am unable to access it's main computer, so it is impossible to determine the exact location.
RIKER: What's in that sector?
WORF: It is uninhabited. But there could be a ship or a subspace relay station receiving the data.
RIKER: Captain. I suggest we beam a repair crew aboard the Array. We can begin downloading their imaging logs, find out what the Array's been observing for the past six days.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Mister Data?

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Excuse me, Counselor. Do you have a moment?
TROI: Of course.
WORF: I have been meaning to speak with you about Alexander.
TROI: Oh?
WORF: It has never been easy for me having Alexander on board. I have always tried to be a good father, to give him guidance, but he seems to have his own mind about some things.
TROI: Most children do.
WORF: I could not have come this far without your help. Alexander looks up to you. At times, I have felt that you are like a mother to him.
TROI: Worf, that's one of the nicest things anyone's ever said to me.
WORF: One time when I thought I was going to die, I asked you to watch over Alexander. I was wondering if you might consider formalizing that arrangement. I want you to be Alexander's Soh-chIm.
TROI: His Soh-chIm?
WORF: You would become his surrogate mother. In case anything ever happened to me, you would be responsible for him.
TROI: I don't know what to say. It's a great honor. So, that would make me your?
WORF: The closest analogy is step-sister.
TROI: That would make my mother your step-mother.
WORF: I had not considered that. It is a risk I am willing to take.
TROI: I accept.
DATA (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf, please report to Engineering.
WORF: I am on my way.

[Engineering]
DATA: We have analyzed the imaging logs. It appears the Array was reprogrammed to observe several Federation sites.
LAFORGE: This is Deep Space Five. Starbase Forty seven. The Iadara Colony and the Utopia Planitia Shipyards.
PICARD: They're responsible for new starship development.
WORF: Someone is using the Array for covert surveillance of the Federation.
DATA: That is our theory. We believe unauthorized access was made six days ago. The imaging logs from that day show a ship approaching the Array.
WORF: That's a Cardassian ship. Galor Class.
LAFORGE: We're only three light years from Cardassian space. They would have easy access to the Array.
PICARD: Mister Worf, start a long range scan of the region. See if there are any Cardassian ships nearby.
WORF: Aye sir.
LAFORGE: Worf, here's a propulsion analysis of the Cardassian ship. You might try scanning for its energy configuration.
DATA: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: I feel dizzy.
LAFORGE: Worf, you don't look so good. Maybe you ought to go to Sickbay.
WORF: Yes. Yes, perhaps I will.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Any nausea or blurred vision?
WORF: No. However, I did experience some dizziness earlier today at my birthday celebration.
CRUSHER: Sounds like you're having some of the side effects from the concussion. I can give you some vertazine for the dizziness but I'd like you to rest.
WORF: Doctor, perhaps you are thinking of another patient. I have no concussion.
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here this morning complaining of ringing in your ears. I scanned you. You had a concussion. You don't remember any of this?
WORF: No.
CRUSHER: Temporary memory loss is common for this kind of injury. Do you remember telling me about the Bat'leth tournament? You said that one of the competitors hit you over the head. That's why you lost the match.
WORF: I won that tournament. And I can prove it to you.

[Worf's quarters]
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
WORF: It says ninth place. This is not the same trophy. Someone is playing a trick on me.
CRUSHER: Worf, try to stay calm. Memory loss can be very disorienting.
WORF: The log. I recorded a personal log on my way back to the Enterprise. Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Show my log entry for Stardate 47391.2.
WORF (screen): Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the Bat'leth competition on Forcas Three. The conditions were difficult. Several contenders were maimed. One of the contenders used an illegal T'gha maneuver against me. The judges chose to ignore it and I was robbed of my rightful standing. I was awarded ninth place. I am looking forward to resuming my duties aboard the En
WORF: I do not understand.
CRUSHER: Worf, I'm sure this is very disturbing for you, but don't worry, your memories will return. The best thing you could do right now is to settle back into your normal routine, but slowly.
WORF: Thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Let me know if you have any more problems with dizziness. I'll give you a hypospray.

[Bridge]
DATA: Lieutenant, have you completed the metallurgical scan of the Array?
WORF: Sir?
DATA: The metallurgical scan. Have you completed it?
WORF: I do not remember you asking me to. Captain, there is a Cardassian ship approaching. Galor Class.
PICARD: Open a channel.
WORF: On screen.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. You are in Federation territory. Please explain your presence here.
NADOR (screen): We were wondering the same thing about you, Captain. Why would Starfleet's flagship want to venture so close to the Cardassian border?
PICARD: We are repairing one of our subspace telescopes.
NADOR (screen): I see. May we offer our assistance?
PICARD: No, thank you. Everything is under control.
NADOR (screen): If you don't mind my asking, what exactly is this telescope of yours designed to do?
PICARD: It's a long range subspace Array. We use it for gathering data on astronomical phenomena.
NADOR (screen): I'm certain it would never be used to observe a neighboring species.
PICARD: Certainly not.
NADOR (screen): Well then, best of luck with your repairs. Just try to make certain that your studies are limited to astronomical phenomena.
RIKER: Charming fellow.
WORF: Captain, that ship was responsible for reprogramming the Array.
PICARD: What are you saying?
WORF: It is the same class and energy configuration as the ship we saw in the imaging logs.
PICARD: The imaging logs? Are you suggesting that you have evidence the Cardassians have tampered with the Array?
WORF: They are using the Array as a surveillance device. You saw the logs yourself.
PICARD: I haven't heard anything about this.
RIKER: Neither have I.
WORF: Commander Data, show them the logs you downloaded from the Array.
DATA: I know of no such logs.
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you feeling all right?
WORF: Yes.
PICARD: Mister Data, perhaps you had better re-examine the Array. See if you can find any evidence to support Mister Worf's claims.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further memory loss, but my instincts tell me it is more than that. I remember those imaging logs. I could tell you every detail, every word.
TROI: Worf, let's assume for a second you're right, that things did happen as you remember them. Are you saying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but yours?
WORF: Enter.
LAFORGE: Counselor. Worf, I wanted you to know that we re-examined the imaging logs. They don't show a Cardassian ship or any evidence that the Array was reprogrammed. From what we can tell, the Array suffered a simple mechanical failure.
WORF: That is not right. I was certain that
TROI: What's wrong?
WORF: Counselor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has moved.
TROI: Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party, remember?
WORF: No.
WORF: The painting has changed. Don't you see it?
WORF: Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well.
LAFORGE: Worf, maybe you should come with me to Sickbay and

[Bridge]
PICARD: Now, Mister Worf! Now!
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Raise the shields.
WORF: This panel configuration has been altered. I do not know how
DATA: Direct hit. Engineering Section and deck forty two. Shield generators are overloading.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Firing photon torpedoes. Full spread.
RIKER: Direct hit on their main reactor. They're returning fire.
DATA: Captain, we have sustained heavy damage to the deflector systems. Hull breaches on decks seventeen and thirty six.
PICARD: Ensign, take us out of here, maximum warp.
GATES: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Are they pursuing us?
RIKER: No, sir. They are firing on the Argus Array. They destroyed it, sir.
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, what's your status?
HAYES (voiceover): This is Ensign Hayes, sir. Commander La Forge has been taken to Sickbay with plasma burns. There's serious damage to the secondary plasma conduit but I think we've got it under control.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign, lay in a course to Starbase one two nine.
GATES: Aye, sir.
PICARD: What happened back there, Lieutenant?
WORF: I believe I experienced another memory loss.
RIKER: Memory loss? What are you talking about?
WORF: I do not feel well. Request to be temporarily relieved of duty, sir.
PICARD: Granted.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Play log entry for stardate 47391.2.
COMPUTER: There is no log entry from the Shuttlecraft Curie for that stardate.
WORF: Computer, display any log entries regarding the Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three.
WORF (screen): Personal log, stardate 47391.2. There has been a malfunction in the ship's main deflector. It will require two more days of repairs. As a result, I will not be able to compete in the Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three. I have asked my brother to take my place. He does not have my prowess with the blade, but
TROI: Why'd you lock the door?
WORF: Why shouldn't I?
TROI: I heard what happened on the Bridge. Are you all right?
WORF: I am not sure.
TROI: Do you want to talk about it?
WORF: I would rather not, Counselor.
TROI: Very well, Lieutenant. Hot chocolate.
WORF: Is there something I can do for you?
TROI: Actually, there is.
TROI: Come and sit down. I just want you to relax for a minute. There. You are so tense. Now, I know you don't want to talk about what happened on the Bridge, but there are times when it's just best to let things out. Come on. If you can't talk to me, who can you talk to?
WORF: I do not believe this is appropriate behavior!
TROI: Even for your wife?
WORF: Wife?
TROI: Worf, what's wrong?
WORF: I do not know. Things are changing.
TROI: What's changed?
WORF: I do not remember us, you and I, being mates. It is as if events, circumstances, continue to change from moment to moment, but I am the only one who seems to be aware of it.
TROI: Are you saying you don't remember the last three years? You don't remember us falling in love and getting married?
WORF: I do remember the last three years, but they were different. We did not have this relationship. We were friends. And the Enterprise did not have a battle with the Cardassians. And no one believes me.
TROI: Whatever's wrong, whatever happened, I want you to know that I believe you. And that I love you. And together we'll find out what's happening.

[Engineering]
DATA: I am initiating a subspace scan to search for temporal anomalies on or off the ship.
OGAWA (voiceover): Counselor Troi, please report to Sickbay.
TROI: I'm on my way. Let me know if you find anything.
WORF: Commander, how long have I been married to Counselor Troi?
DATA: Two years, one month and twelve days.
WORF: And when did this relationship begin?
DATA: It is my understanding your romantic affiliation began shortly after you recovered from your spinal injury on stardate 45587. It was six months later that you asked Commander Riker for his formal permission to court Counselor Troi. You felt to do otherwise would be dishonorable.
WORF: And then we mated?
DATA: I am not privy to the exact details of when, where or how your first coupling took place. I could investigate it
WORF: No, that is all right.
DATA: I am detecting no temporal anomalies in this system. Perhaps we should try to pinpoint the exact moment when events became discontinuous. Do you remember the first change?
WORF: I was in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me I had a concussion but I do not remember that happening.
DATA: Think back. Are you sure that was the very first change?
WORF: Before. Yes. Yes, I was in Engineering. I felt a wave of dizziness and when I looked up, you and Commander La Forge were on the opposite side of the room. Captain Picard was gone. I thought I had blacked out for a moment and had not observed your movements. And at my birthday party, the cake was chocolate and then it was yellow. And Commander Riker told me Captain Picard was not going to attend, and then suddenly he was there.
DATA: We should try to find the commonalties in these events. Where were the people you were with?
WORF: Everyone was at my birthday party. Then I was with Counselor Troi, then Commander La Forge came in. Geordi. Geordi was present at all three locations. And he was near me in each case just before I noticed the differences. There has to be a connection.
DATA: It is possible. We should speak to Commander La Forge.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Doctor, is Geordi well enough to answer some questions?
OGAWA: Geordi's dead.
DATA: There do not appear to be any unusual readings. Energy residuals from the plasma burns, the beginnings of cellular decomposition. I see nothing that connects these bio-readings to your recent sense of discontinuity.
OGAWA: What about his visor?
DATA: I still see nothing unusual. Perhaps we should activate it.
OGAWA: Hook it up to the diagnostic array and I'll check it out.
DATA: The visor is active.
CRUSHER: Worf, are you alright?
DATA: Have you noticed another discontinuity?
WORF: Doctor Crusher was not here. Doctor Ogawa was.
CRUSHER: Doctor Ogawa?
WORF: My uniform has changed. What is my rank and position?
TROI: You're a Commander and First Officer.
WORF: Are we still married?
TROI: Yes.
DATA: I am detecting a quantum flux in your cellular RNA.
WORF: What does that mean?
DATA: I do not know. I will have to analyze these readings.

[Ready room]
DATA: I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to the subatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence, Captain, Mister Worf does not belong in our universe.
RIKER: What?
DATA: All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a unique signature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed through any known process. It is the basic foundation of existence.
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf's quantum signature is different from ours?
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a different quantum universe.
RIKER: Mister Worf, you say the discontinuities started to occur after you returned from a Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three.
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Now, I know for a fact that you never attended that tournament and that no shuttlecraft has left the Enterprise for over a month.
WORF: I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the tournament and returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Do you remember the route you took to return?
WORF: Yes.
RIKER: Let's backtrack that course. See if there are any unusual readings or anomalies.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the Enterprise?
RIKER: Four years. Ever since Captain Picard was killed in the incident with the Borg. You don't remember any of this, do you?
WORF: I do remember. I just remember differently.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, I'm picking up a minor subspace disturbance off the port bow.
RIKER: Full stop.
HELM: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: It appears to be a quantum fissure in the space-time continuum.
RIKER: On screen.
DATA: The anomaly cannot be seen, but I believe I can enhance it with a warp field to make it visible.
RIKER: Is it dangerous?
DATA: Not from this distance, sir. I am also detecting an ion trail intersecting the phenomenon. I believe it was left by a Starfleet type six shuttlecraft.
WORF: So I was here.
DATA: I have an explanation, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I believe the quantum fissure we discovered is a fixed point across the space time continuum. A keyhole which intersects many other quantum realities.
TROI: What do you mean, quantum realities?
DATA: For any event, there is an infinite number of possible outcomes. Our choices determine which outcomes will follow. But there is a theory in quantum physics that all possibilities that can happen, do happen in alternate quantum realities.
WORF: And somehow I have been shifting from one reality to another.
DATA: That is correct.
TROI: How did this happen?
DATA: When Worf's shuttlecraft came into contact with the quantum fissure, I believe its warp engines caused a small break in the barriers between quantum realties. Worf was thrown into a state of quantum flux. He immediately shifted into other realities.
CRUSHER: And Geordi's visor somehow triggered that effect?
DATA: Exactly. The visor uses a subspace field pulse. I believe that whenever Geordi came near Worf, the field pulse intensified the quantum flux and pushed Worf into another reality.
WORF: How can we find my original quantum state and return me to it?
WESLEY: We could scan the quantum fissure using a subspace differential pulse. Maybe we could locate the quantum state that shares Worf's signature and find a way to get him back.
DATA: An excellent idea, Lieutenant.

[Worf's quarters]
TROI: Worf. From what I understand, there's a good chance my Worf won't return. I guess it's just hard for me to accept that there's a reality out there where you never loved me.
WORF: Deanna, I have always considered you a close friend. And although I have never seriously considered a romantic relationship, I would not be opposed to the possibility.
TROI: What about our children?
WORF: Children?
TROI: You didn't know?
WORF: When the last shift occurred in Sickbay, we did not have any children.
TROI: We have a little girl, Shannara, she's two years old, and a three year old boy, Eric Christopher.
WORF: What about Alexander?
TROI: Alexander?
WORF: He was my son in another reality.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I've used a differential pulse to analyze over ten million quantum states within the fissure, but I still haven't found one with your signature. This may take some time, sir.
DATA: Captain, a Bajoran ship is approaching.
RIKER: Red Alert.
WORF: Sir, the Bajorans?
TROI: Ever since the Bajorans overpowered the Cardassian Empire, they've become more and more aggressive.
RIKER: Yesterday they destroyed one of our subspace telescopes because they thought we were using it to spy on them.
WESLEY: They're charging their weapons, sir.
WORF: Shields!
RIKER: Return fire.
WESLEY: They've damaged our power systems, sir. It's caused an energy surge within the subspace pulse. The quantum fissure is beginning to destabilize.
RIKER: Can we disengage the pulse?
WESLEY: Too late, sir.
RIKER: What the hell is happening?
DATA: The barriers between quantum realties are breaking down. Other realties are emerging into our own.
WESLEY: The Bajoran ship is disengaging, sir.
DATA: The rate of quantum incursions is increasing exponentially. At this rate, the sector will be completely filled with Enterprises within three days.
WESLEY: Captain, we're receiving two hundred eighty five thousand hails.
RIKER: I wish I knew what to tell them. Mister Data, can we stop these incursions?
DATA: Perhaps, if we can find the ship which that Commander Worf's quantum signature.
RIKER: How would that help?
DATA: It was Worf's shuttlecraft which traversed the fissure and weakened the barriers between quantum realities. If he re-enters the fissure in his original shuttle, and emits a broad spectrum warp field, it may be enough to seal the fissure and stop additional realities from emerging into our own.
RIKER: What then? How do we get the Enterprises that are already here back to where they belong?
DATA: In theory, the act of sealing the fissure should restore the barriers between quantum states. The ships would return to their own realities.
RIKER: Lieutenant Crusher, send a general hail, all ships.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: This is Captain Riker of the Enterprise. That is, the Enterprise which is indigenous to this universe. We've all encountered a quantum anomaly. We think we have found a way to return all of us to our proper realities, but we need to find that ship which exhibits a certain quantum signature. Our Mister Data will transmit that signature to you now.
RIKER: Anything?
WESLEY: There's too much comm. traffic, sir. It's tough to isolate who's talking to who. Wait a minute. Here it is. Someone's responding.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD (screen): Captain, it would that we have found the quantum signature you are looking for.
RIKER: Data believes that by sending Worf back through the fissure again, it would return us all to our proper realities.
PICARD (screen): Our Data has said the same thing.
RIKER: We need you to send us your shuttlecraft Curie.
PICARD (screen): We're launching it now.
RIKER: Thank you. It's good to see you again, Captain. It's been a long time.

[Shuttlebay]
RIKER: Did they send the right shuttle?
DATA: Yes, sir. It matches Commander Worf's quantum signature precisely. I have remodulated the shuttle's engines to emit an inverse warp field. You will need to activate the field at the precise moment you enter the fissure.
WORF: Assuming it works, will I find myself near my own ship?
DATA: That is one possibility. However, the uncertainty principle dictates that time is a variable in this equation. You may end up several days before the event or several days after. There is no way to tell.
WORF: I understand.
RIKER: Good luck.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Setting course for the fissure.
RIKER (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, the shuttlecraft is under attack.
RIKER: The Bajorans again.
WESLEY: No, sir. It's one of the Enterprises. They're hailing us.
RIKER: On screen.
RIKER (screen): We won't go back. You don't know what it's like in our universe. The Federation's gone, the Borg is everywhere! We're one of the last ships left. Please, you've got to help us!
RIKER: I'm sorry, there's no choice. If this works, everything will return to
RIKER (screen): No, we won't go back!
WESLEY: Sir, they're firing on the shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Open fire. Try to disable them.
WESLEY: Direct hit. Their shields have collapsed. Their engine core is overloading.
RIKER: What happened?
WESLEY: It looks like the ship had already taken heavy damage. Their warp containment field must have been weak.
RIKER: Probably from fighting with the Borg.
DATA: Captain, Worf is entering the fissure.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Charging primary systems. Initiating inverse warp field.
WORF: Worf to Enterprise.
PICARD (voiceover): Enterprise here.
WORF: Captain, is everything all right?
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, Lieutenant. Is there a problem?
WORF: No, I do not believe so, but I will explain when I arrive.
PICARD (voiceover): How was the Bat'leth tournament?
WORF: It was fine, sir. I won Champion Standing.

[Corridor]
RIKER: So you think this quantum fissure is nothing that we need to worry about?
WORF: No. No, I believe the inverse warp field resealed it.
RIKER: I'm looking forward to reading your report.
RIKER: Something wrong?
WORF: I know what you are planning, sir. I will not be surprised.
RIKER: Surprised? I don't know what you're talking about.
WORF: Of course you don't.

[Worf's quarters]
TROI: Welcome home, Worf. I hope you don't mind, I let myself in. I promised Alexander I'd feed his Dalvin hissing beetle while you were both away.
WORF: So you do not live here?
TROI: What's that supposed to mean?
WORF: It is a long story.
TROI: Happy birthday, Worf. Will wanted to give you a surprise party, but I knew you'd hate it so I talked him out of it.
WORF: Thank you.
TROI: I know Klingons like to be alone on their birthdays. I'm sure you have to meditate, or hit yourself with a pain stick or something.
WORF: Deanna. You do not have to leave.
TROI: Oh?
WORF: I have not had dinner. Would you care to join me?
TROI: I'd love to.
WORF: Champagne.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I don't know why we have to do this every year. I thought that last year the teachers had agreed that they wouldn't do this anymore.
TROI: Captain Picard Day is one of the children's favorite school activities. They look forward to it all year.
PICARD: Why does it have to be me?
TROI: Because you're the Captain, and they look up to you. You're a role model for them.
PICARD: Well, they seem to have a somewhat exaggerated impression of me.
RIKER: I don't know. I think the resemblance is rather striking. Wouldn't you agree, Number One?
PICARD: Isn't there something else you have to do?
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge.
TROI: Will.
TROI: The finalists will be here in half an hour. You have to pick a first, second and third place, and four honorable mentions.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain. Incoming transmission from Admiral Blackwell. It is coded Priority One.
PICARD: Put it through, Mister Worf. Excuse me, Counselor.
PICARD: Yes, Admiral?
BLACKWELL (screen): Captain, what is your status?
PICARD: We are conducting energy output studies of the Mekoria Quasar. All systems normal. The ship is fully operational.
BLACKWELL (screen): Good. I'm postponing the quasar study for the moment. The Enterprise is to rendezvous with the starship Crazy Horse in sector one six zero seven immediately. You're authorized to exceed warp speed limitations for the duration of this assignment.
PICARD: I understand. What is our assignment?
BLACKWELL (screen): I'd prefer not to discuss it over subspace channels. The Crazy Horse will be carrying someone from Starfleet Intelligence. He'll brief you when he arrives.
PICARD: Very well.
BLACKWELL (screen): Captain Picard Day?
PICARD: Oh, er, yes. It's, er, it's for the children. I'm, er, ha, ha, I'm a role model.
BLACKWELL (screen): I'm sure you are. Starfleet out.

[Corridor]
RIKER: So, who won the contest?
PICARD: Paul Menegay, a seven year old. He did a most interesting clay sculpture of my head.
RIKER: Was that the orange one with the lumpy skin?
PICARD: Yes. Oh, you'll be interested to know that I've arranged for a Commander Riker Day next month. I'm even considering making an entry myself.
RIKER: Great.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Energize.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
PRESSMAN: Will. I'll bet you never thought you'd see me again.
RIKER: It's good to see you, sir.
PRESSMAN: Yeah, sure it is. You look like you're about to faint.
RIKER: No. It's just it's been a long time. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Admiral Erik Pressman.
PICARD: Pressman? Yes, of course. You were Will's first commanding officer, on the Pegasus.
PRESSMAN: That's right. As a matter of fact, the Pegasus is the reason I'm here.
RIKER: Sir?
PRESSMAN: The Pegasus is still out there, Will. And the Romulans found her.

[Observation lounge]
PRESSMAN: As you know, the starship Pegasus was lost in this sector some twelve years ago along with most of its crew. I was the captain and Commander Riker here was my helmsman.
PICARD: I remember hearing about it. The ship was destroyed by a warp core breach as I recall.
RIKER: The Captain and I, along with seven others managed to get to the escape pod before the breach became critical.
PRESSMAN: From space, we saw what appeared to be a matter-antimatter explosion which vaporized the ship.
RIKER: No wreckage was found, so Starfleet officially declared the ship destroyed.
PRESSMAN: However, all that changed three days ago. Starfleet Intelligence has an operative in Romulan High Command. He sent us a message that a Romulan warbird had located a piece of debris in the Devolin system which was positively identified as being from the Pegasus. The warbird was then ordered to locate the rest of the ship, if possible, and retrieve it.
LAFORGE: What would the Romulans want with pieces of a twelve year old starship?
PRESSMAN: The Pegasus was a prototype. Experimental engine, new weapon systems. In fact, some of our designs were used in constructing the Enterprise. There are a lot of things on board the Romulans would love to get their hands on.
PICARD: What are our orders?
PRESSMAN: To find the ship before the Romulans do. Salvage it if possible, destroy it if necessary. You command the Enterprise while I remain in command of the overall mission.
LAFORGE: We'll need metallurgical and chromographic specs on the Pegasus in order to set up the proper search parameters.
PRESSMAN: I'll make the appropriate information available to you.
PICARD: Very well. Lay in a course for the Devolin system.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we are approaching the Devolin system.
PICARD: Any sign of the Romulans?
DATA: No, sir.
PRESSMAN: Oh, they're out there. They're just waiting to see what you're going to do.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: There's an awful lot of ionizing radiation in this system, Captain. That and the sheer amount of rock is going to slow down our search a little.
PICARD: How slow?
LAFORGE: I'd say at least
WORF: Sir, Romulan warbird decloaking directly ahead.
WORF: They are powering weapons.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert. Prepare phasers.
WORF: Sir, they are hailing us.
PICARD: On screen.
SIROL (screen): I am Commander Sirol of the Romulan vessel Terix. To whom do I have the honor of speaking?
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starship Enterprise.
SIROL (screen): Captain Picard. I've heard so much about you. A pleasure to make your acquaintance. I hope our sudden appearance didn't startle you.
PICARD: Not at all. But your unannounced appearance might have unfortunate consequences. It would be an awful shame if your ship were damaged due to some misunderstanding.
SIROL (screen): I am touched by your concern for my ship, but I doubt we were ever in any danger. May I ask what you are doing in this system?
PICARD: I might ask you the same question.
SIROL (screen): We are conducting a survey of gaseous anomalies.
PICARD: How interesting. So are we. Perhaps we could combine our efforts and share our findings.
SIROL (screen): I doubt our objectives are compatible.
PICARD: Perhaps you're right.
SIROL (screen): This has been a most pleasant conversation, but we must return to our research.
PICARD: Then I won't keep you.
WORF: Sir, they are moving off, resuming their tachyon scans of the system.
PICARD: Stand down Red alert, but keep tracking their movement, Lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Commander, how long will it take us to search this system?
LAFORGE: At least seven days, sir.
WORF: And the Romulans have a two day head start.
PICARD: Then let's get to it. Mister Data?
DATA: Initiating sensor sweep of grid zero one.

[Ten Forward]
PRESSMAN: How long have you had that beard?
RIKER: About four years. I got tired of hearing how young I looked.
PRESSMAN: What was it that Lieutenant Boylen used to call you?
RIKER: Ensign Babyface.
PRESSMAN: You never did have much of a sense of humor.
RIKER: I like to think that I've lightened up a little in my old age.
PRESSMAN: Really?
RIKER: I've been known to tell a joke or two.
PRESSMAN: Well, it's about time. You were always so serious on the Pegasus.
RIKER: We went through some serious times. Do you really think we're going to find the Pegasus again?
PRESSMAN: I wouldn't have come all the way out here if I didn't.
RIKER: What about the experiment? Do you think we're going to find that too?
PRESSMAN: Maybe.
RIKER: I think a lot about what happened, especially on that last day.
PRESSMAN: So do I. It's not the kind of thing you just forget.
RIKER: Do you ever wonder if we did the right thing?
PRESSMAN: Never. What happened was a tragedy, yes, but it wasn't your fault and it wasn't mine. What we were doing was for the good of the Federation, and we can't blame ourselves if the others couldn't see that.
RIKER: I know, but, maybe we went about it the wrong way.
PRESSMAN: Well, this time we may have a chance to do it the right way. If this mission is successful, if we find the Pegasus and the experiment, we can finish what we started twelve years ago.
RIKER: You want to try again?
PRESSMAN: It's not just me, Will. The Chief of Starfleet Security has personally given me her assurance of complete support.
RIKER: Admiral Raner? How many other people know about this?
PRESSMAN: Not many, and it's up to us to make sure it stays that way. Raner has given me written orders for you. You'll find them coded in the Enterprise computer. You've been instructed not to reveal the true nature of our mission to anyone else, not even Captain Picard. Will, don't worry. It won't be like it was twelve years ago. And this time, no one's going to stop us. (for those who care about these things, the travesty that was the Enterprise series finale takes place at some point from here on in...)

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: As a matter of fact, I never met Will until he reported on board at Farpoint Station.
PRESSMAN: You chose your first officer without ever meeting him?
PICARD: I was looking through the records of about fifty candidates and Will's was much like all the others, filled with lots of dry statistics and glowing letters of recommendation that tell you nothing. I was about to put it aside and look at another file and then something caught my eye. There was an incident on Altair Three when Will was First Officer of the Hood. He refused to let Captain DeSoto beam down during a crisis. He disobeyed a direct order and he risked a general court martial because he thought he was right. When I read that, I knew that I had found my Number One.
PRESSMAN: You wanted someone with a history of disobedience?
PICARD: I wanted someone who would stand up to me. Someone who was more concerned with the safety of the ship and accomplishing the mission than with how something looked on his record. To me, that's one of the marks of a good officer.
PRESSMAN: Frankly, I've always felt it was more important for an officer to trust his captain's judgment. In a crisis, there's no time for explanations. Orders have to be obeyed without question or lives may be lost.
PICARD: I am aware of that, Admiral.
PRESSMAN: Of course you are. I guess this mission has brought up some old ghosts for me. You know what it's like to lose a ship. You're always wondering if there was something else you should have done, something you missed.
PICARD: Admiral, the record regarding the loss of the Pegasus is a bit vague from the moment just before you abandoned ship. Is there anything that you can add to the official account?
PRESSMAN: I'm afraid not. But I can tell you this. Twelve years ago, I needed an officer that I could count on in a crisis. Someone who would support and obey my decisions without question. Someone who was willing to trust my judgment. And that someone was Will Riker. Without his loyalty, none of us would have survived.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
RIKER: I think I busted a rib.
CRUSHER: Excuse me. What were you doing?
RIKER: I was doing bat'leth moves with Mister Worf. I jabbed when I should've blocked. He caught me right in the side. It's a good thing we were using sticks instead of the real blades.
CRUSHER: It's broken all right. Give him ten cc's of terakine for the pain.
RIKER: I can't believe how stupid I was.
CRUSHER: You both must have got a little carried away, that's all.
RIKER: No, it was my fault. I got distracted at a crucial moment.
CRUSHER: It can happen to anyone.
RIKER: I knew what I was supposed to do and I didn't do it. If those had real bat'leths I might be dead right now.
CRUSHER: There, all better. Will, it's all right. You made a mistake. No harm done. You'll be better next time.
RIKER: Yeah, maybe.

[Bridge]
DATA: Scan of grid one five seven is complete. I am moving to grid one five eight.
WORF: The Romulan warship is still searching grid two seven zero.
RIKER: They're sure spending a lot of time over there. I wonder if they
LAFORGE: Commander, I think we might have just struck paydirt. There's a subspace resonance signature coming from that asteroid. From the frequency variances, it looks like the pattern from a Federation warp core.
RIKER: Captain Picard to the Bridge. Take us to within ten kilometers of asteroid gamma six zero one.
RIKER: Geordi's found something.
LAFORGE: There's a subspace resonance signature coming from that asteroid, sir. It could be the warp core of the Pegasus.
PRESSMAN: I think he's right. I recognize some of the variance patterns.
PICARD: Put the asteroid on the main viewscreen.
DATA: I have confirmed Geordi's readings. The resonance signature is originating from somewhere beneath the asteroid's surface.
PRESSMAN: Beneath the surface? How's that possible?
DATA: This asteroid contains several deep chasms large enough for a starship to enter. It is possible the Pegasus drifted into the asteroid's gravitational field and was pulled down into one of the fissures.
WORF: Sir, the Romulan warbird has altered course once again. They are heading toward our position.
RIKER: They probably want to see what we're so interested in over here.
PICARD: Mister Data, how long will it take to determine the exact location of the Pegasus?
DATA: At least another six hours, sir.
PRESSMAN: That's too long. If the Romulans start searching the asteroid, they could find the ship before we do.
RIKER: I recommend we destroy the asteroid. It would take most of our photon torpedoes, but it would preclude any possibility of the Pegasus falling into Romulan hands.
PRESSMAN: Our top priority is to salvage the ship, Commander. I'll consider destroying it only as a last resort.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PRESSMAN: Captain, could you give me a third alternative?
PICARD: Mister Data, would it possible to saturate the asteroid with verteron particles that could mask the resonance signature and prevent the Romulans from detecting it?
DATA: In order for the deception to succeed, it would have to appear to be a natural phenomenon. Verteron particles are artificial in nature.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. We could blanket the asteroid with high levels of ionizing radiation. There's so much of it in the system already, the Romulans won't know the difference.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Theoretically, sir, it should work.
RIKER: If we do this, we have to do it fast the Romulans will be within sensor range in less than a minute.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir. Initiating ionization field pulse.
PICARD: When he's finished we'll have to move away and make it look like we've scanned the asteroid but haven't find anything.
RIKER: Lay in a course for the next search grid. Stand by to engage.
PICARD: If it works, the Romulans won't find anything and we can return later. If it doesn't
PRESSMAN: If it doesn't work, we'll have handed them the Pegasus.
DATA: Ionization pulse complete.
PICARD: Helm, one quarter impulse. Engage.
DATA: The Romulans are initiating a tachyon scan of the asteroid. They have switched to their lateral sensor array. Beginning another scan.
RIKER: They're certainly being thorough.
DATA: The warbird has completed its sensor sweep.
PRESSMAN: If they found the resonance signature, they should be sending away teams any second.
DATA: They are moving out.
PICARD: Mister Data, we must convince the Romulans that we're still looking for the Pegasus. I want you to continue scanning this system.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I want to be back at this asteroid at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow. Plan your search pattern accordingly.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Admiral, would you care to join me for some late dinner?
PRESSMAN: Please excuse me, Captain, but I think I'd better turn in early.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. Oh, and will you bring the scan analysis to my quarters when you're off watch?
RIKER: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Initiate search of grid one six three.
DATA: Beginning sensor sweeps.
PRESSMAN: Commander, I want to see you in the Captain's Ready room.
RIKER: Mister Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PRESSMAN: What the hell is the matter with you? Destroy the Pegasus before we've even taken a look at it?
RIKER: I thought it was more important that the Romulans
PRESSMAN: Well, you were wrong! We have a chance here to change the balance of power in this quadrant, but we can't very well do that if we destroy the Pegasus, now can we?
RIKER: No, sir.
PRESSMAN: It hasn't been easy for you I'm sure, keeping your Captain and friends in the dark like this.
RIKER: I haven't enjoyed it, if that's what you mean.
PRESSMAN: I hope you understand that it's necessary.
RIKER: I understand that you think it's necessary.
PRESSMAN: You have changed.
RIKER: Changed?
PRESSMAN: Something the Captain and I were talking about. To be honest I'm glad to see this kind of change in you, Will. State your opinion and stand by it. It's a far cry from the young man who used to sit at my helm and worry about pressing the wrong button.
RIKER: A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral.
PRESSMAN: Yes, they can. But it's important that a man changes the right things in his life, not his sense of duty, not his sense of loyalty.
RIKER: I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir.
PRESSMAN: I would like to think that too. Because those things say more about a man than the rank on his collar or the uniform he wears. They define him. Twelve years ago, a lot of older and more seasoned officers turned away from their duty, but you stood up for what was right. I'm sorry, Will. I know the kind of man you are. I know that I can count on you again.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The scan analysis you asked for.
PICARD: Thank you.
RIKER: Is there something else, sir?
PICARD: Yes, there is. Judge Advocate General's Report. Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard USS Pegasus. Based on testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, the Judge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude that certain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just prior to the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship? That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it.
RIKER: No, sir.
PICARD: You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull in quite a few favors at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seems that it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was the Pegasus carrying sensitive equipment which must be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there a mysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, but it seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the official report of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your version of what happened.
RIKER: I was on the Bridge. The ship was at yellow alert. We were running some tests on the engines. Something went wrong. There was an explosion in Engineering. Heavy casualties. In the midst of this crisis, the First Officer, the Chief of Engineering and most of Bridge crew mutinied against Captain Pressman.
PICARD: Why?
RIKER: They thought he was jeopardizing the ship.
PICARD: And you?
RIKER: I was seven months out of the Academy, my head still ringing with words like duty and honor. When they turned on him, I thought they were a bunch of self-serving, disloyal officers, so I grabbed a phaser and defended my captain. Two or three others joined us, but it was clear by then that the mutineers had most of the crew behind them. We felt a need to get off the ship. There was a running firefight all the way to the escape pod. About five minutes after we left the ship there was an explosion.
PICARD: The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officers are deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry. Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no further investigation. This report was classified and then it was quietly buried. Why?
RIKER: Sir, may I suggest you take this up with Admiral
PICARD: I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thought you were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, what the hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why is Pressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later?
RIKER: I've said all I can. I am under direct orders from Admiral Pressman not to discuss this, sir.
PICARD: Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force you to disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark on this mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not let Pressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that that trust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the command structure of this ship. Dismissed.

[Ready room]
BLACKWELL (screen): Captain, Starfleet places the highest priority on the success of this mission. Your request for a delay is denied.
PICARD: Margaret, something's very wrong here. Do you know what's going on?
BLACKWELL (screen): I know that the Chief of Starfleet Intelligence herself is watching this one, Jean-Luc. So you'd be well advised to follow Pressman's orders and leave it at that. Starfleet out.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain Picard. We are approaching asteroid gamma six zero one, sir.
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, where are the Romulans?
WORF: They are out of sensor range on the far side of the system.
PICARD: Take us to within fifteen kilometers of the asteroid and hold that position.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, report.
DATA: For the past several hours, I have been scanning the area where we detected the resonance signature of the Pegasus. From the strength and polarity of the signature, it would appear that most of the warp core is still intact.
PRESSMAN: If we're lucky, the entire engineering section could be down there.
RIKER: But how do we get to it? I wouldn't want to try to transport through that much solid rock.
PICARD: Agreed. What about a shuttle? We could send it down through one of these fissures.
DATA: I would recommend against it, sir. There may be gravimetric or magnetic fluctuations inside the asteroid which would overpower the engines of a shuttlecraft.
PRESSMAN: Sounds like the best solution is to take the Enterprise in.
RIKER: Into the asteroid?
PRESSMAN: That's right. Put this fissure on the main viewer. This chasm is large enough for us to maneuver in. Besides, if we ever hope to salvage the Pegasus, we're going to need a starship to do it.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: It is theoretically possible, sir, but I am unaware of any prior situations where a starship was taken so deeply inside a planetary body. There may be unforeseen difficulties.
PICARD: Admiral, I don't think we can risk
PRESSMAN: I've made my decision. Prepare to take the Enterprise in, Captain. That's an order.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please note in the ship's log that this action is being taken over my explicit objections.
DATA: It is so noted, sir.
PICARD: Yellow Alert.
RIKER: Shields up. Inertial dampers at maximum.
PICARD: Ensign Gates, plot a course into the chasm, maneuvering thrusters only.
GATES: Course plotted, sir.
PICARD: Take us in.
DATA: We are now two kilometers beneath the surface.
WORF: Captain, we are encountering shifts in the magnetic field density.
PICARD: Admiral, if is passage narrows to less than five hundred meters, I will abort the mission. You can charge me with insubordination if you wish, but I'm not going to risk the Enterprise for a salvage operation.
WORF: Captain, I am reading a large resonance signature directly ahead.
PRESSMAN: Pegasus.
RIKER: What the hell happened?
DATA: Sensors show that the ship is still intact. However, sixty five percent of it is contained within the asteroid.
RIKER: It looks if half the ship materialized inside solid rock.
DATA: Yes, sir. I do not understand how this could have happened.
PRESSMAN: Let's keep the speculation to a minimum. We have to begin the salvage operation. The equipment we need was in main Engineering. Can you scan that section of the Pegasus?
DATA: The starboard bulkhead of main Engineering is contained within the rock face, but most of its compartment is still intact.
WORF: There is a hull breach in that section.
PICARD: If we begin a power transfer, can we restore life support systems to that compartment?
DATA: I believe so, sir. The breach can be temporarily sealed by extending our shields.
PRESSMAN: See to it. Once you've restored life support, Commander Riker and I will beam directly into Engineering.
PICARD: Admiral, I would like to send down a complete away team
PRESSMAN: There's some very sensitive equipment over there. I don't want anyone else near it.
PICARD: Yes, sir.

[Pegasus Engineering]
PRESSMAN: This room was open to space for twelve years.
RIKER: Vacuum preserved everything.
RIKER: I wonder how many of the crew are buried back there.
PRESSMAN: We're not here for a memorial service. It's still intact. What's the matter, Will? Don't you understand? We've found it.
RIKER: I know. I kept hoping it wouldn't be here. That it had been destroyed or that it was buried in that rock back there.
PRESSMAN: What the hell is that supposed to mean?
RIKER: It means that I can't put this off any longer. Right up until this moment I had the luxury of time, but now I've got to make a choice. And, Admiral, I'm afraid my choice is this. I can't let you start these experiments again. It was wrong twelve years ago, and it is wrong today.
PRESSMAN: You had better reconsider that position, Commander. We have a mission to accomplish and you're going to carry it out.
RIKER: That's all you care about, starting these damn experiments again. Look around. This room is filled with dead bodies. These people died because of this thing.
PRESSMAN: Keep your self-righteous comments to yourself. I knew most of these people a lot longer than you did. Yes, it was tragic, but it was their fault.
RIKER: You don't know that. Neither of us knows what happened after we left.
PRESSMAN: Well, it's not hard to guess. They tried to shut down an experiment they didn't understand. Something went wrong and it killed them.
RIKER: No. We killed them.
PRESSMAN: Now that doesn't sound like the same man who grabbed a phaser and defended his captain twelve years ago.
RIKER: I've had twelve years to think about it, and if I had it to do over again I would have grabbed the phaser and pointed it at you instead of them.
PRESSMAN: So on reflection you'd rather be a traitor than a hero.
RIKER: I wasn't a hero and neither were you. What you did was wrong and I was wrong to support you, but I was just too young and too stupid to realize it. You were the captain. I was the ensign. I was just following orders.
PRESSMAN: And if you hadn't you'd be dead right now along with all the rest of them. Dead because you listened to a bunch of mutinous cowards who were too blinded by fear to see what I was trying to do.
RIKER: They were brave enough to risk their lives to stop you from violating a treaty the Federation signed in good faith.
PRESSMAN: That treaty has bound our hands and given the Romulans a tactical advantage for the last sixty years. I was simply trying to level the playing field.
RIKER: And now you want to try it again? How many people will die this time? Fifty? A hundred? A thousand?
PRESSMAN: All right, you don't want to help me? Fine. But you are still under my direct orders not to talk about what you know and I expect you to follow those orders to the letter. I made you, mister, and I can break you just as easily. Do you understand me, Commander?
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to away team. Prepare to return to the ship immediately.
PRESSMAN: Stand by, Enterprise.
PRESSMAN: Pressman to Enterprise. Two people and one piece of equipment to beam up.

[Bridge]
PRESSMAN: Report.
PICARD: The Romulans have destroyed the entrance to the chasm with their disruptors. They've sealed us in.
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming message. It is from the warbird.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Aye, sir.
SIROL (screen): Captain, you seem to be in a very unfortunate circumstance. How can we help?
PICARD: Are you responsible for this?
SIROL (screen): I'm not sure. We were conducting some geological experiments on the surface of the asteroid. It is entirely possible that we accidently sealed you in. If only we had known you were beneath the surface, if you had shared your plans with us, this might have been avoided.
PICARD: What do you want, Sirol?
SIROL (screen): I don't want anything, Captain, but I will offer to help you.
PICARD: How?
SIROL (screen): By transporting your crew aboard my ship. We'll take you back to Romulus where, after a short stay as our guests, you will be returned to the Federation.
PICARD: Thank you for your generous offer. I will take it under advisement.
SIROL (screen): As you wish. We will be continuing our research in this system for a while longer. I await your decision.
PRESSMAN: We can't do it. If we abandon the Enterprise they'll come back here and get their hands on both ships.
PICARD: Agreed. Options?
WORF: Captain, I believe we could use the phasers to cut our way out.
DATA: The asteroid's internal structure is highly unstable. Any attempt to cut through the rock could cause the entire chasm to collapse.
RIKER: Captain, I have a suggestion. There's a piece of equipment in Admiral Pressman's quarters under guard which might get us out of here. It's a prototype for a Federation cloaking device.
PRESSMAN: You just ended your career, Will.
PICARD: That's what it's all about. A cloaking device. In the Treaty of Algeron the Federation specifically agreed not to develop cloaking technology.
PRESSMAN: And that treaty is the biggest mistake we ever made. It's kept us from exploiting a vital area of defense.
PICARD: That treaty has kept us in peace for sixty years, and as a Starfleet officer, you're supposed to uphold it.
PRESSMAN: Now that's enough. I'm taking command of this vessel. Mister Worf, escort the Captain to his quarters.
RIKER: I don't think anyone's going to come to your defense this time.
PICARD: How do we use the cloak to escape from the asteroid?
RIKER: It's more than just a cloak. It changes the structure of matter. In theory, a ship using this device could pass through normal matter.
PICARD: I see why you were so eager to find it.
PRESSMAN: Can't you see the potential here? The phasing cloak could be the greatest breakthrough in weapons research in the last fifty years.
PICARD: Except it's illegal. It's in violation of an agreement that the Federation signed in good faith.
RIKER: Captain, I think we could adapt the cloak for the Enterprise.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Theoretically it is possible, sir. But it would take several hours to study the device and determine how to link it to our systems.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47457.1. We have been trapped inside the asteroid for over eight hours. Mister Data and Commander La Forge inform me that they are nearly ready to engage the cloak.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Commander, we've routed the impulse engines through the plasma conduits, but you'll have to watch the intercooler levels. If they get too high, we'll blow the entire relay system.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I think that's what happened twelve years ago. The cloak blew out the plasma relays on the Pegasus after we left the ship. The plasma ignited in space, and it looked as if the ship had been destroyed.
PRESSMAN: So the ship drifted into this system still in a phased state, and when it passed through this asteroid
RIKER: The cloak failed, and half the ship materialized in solid rock.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The cloak is online and ready to begin phase sequencing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Proceed, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Activating power systems.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: The cloak appears to be functioning normally. The ship's matter-energy phasing rate should be sufficient to pass through the asteroid.
PICARD: Take us out. Maneuvering thrusters only.
WORF: Aye, sir. We will reach the rock face in five seconds.
WORF: We have passed through two kilometers of the asteroid. Now within one kilometer of the surface.
RIKER: We're approaching the surface.
WORF: We have cleared the asteroid, Captain. The warbird is off the port bow.
RIKER: They're still waiting for us to make up our minds.
PICARD: Disengage the cloaking device, Commander.
PRESSMAN: You cannot do that! If the Romulans see us decloak, they'll know
PICARD: They'll know the truth, Admiral. Which is what everyone will know very shortly. Carry out my orders.
PICARD: Mister Worf, send a message to the warbird. Inform them that their government will be contacted shortly about this incident.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Admiral, I am hereby charging you with violation of the Treaty of Algeron. As Captain of the Enterprise, I'm placing you under arrest. Mister Worf?
WORF: Admiral, if you will come with me.
RIKER: Captain, I'll have to be placed under arrest as well. Admiral.
PRESSMAN: I have a lot of friends at Starfleet Command, Captain.
PICARD: You're going to need them.

[Brig]
PICARD: I've spoken to Fleet Admiral Shanthi. There will be a full inquiry once we reach Starbase two four seven, and that will probably lead to a general court martial of Admiral Pressman and several others at Starfleet Intelligence. Your involvement in this affair is going to be thoroughly investigated, Will. There'll be some hard questions for you to answer.
RIKER: I understand.
PICARD: You made a mistake twelve years ago, but your service since then has earned you a great deal of respect, but this incident may cost you some of that respect.
RIKER: I can't help but feel I should have come forward a long time ago.
PICARD: When the moment came to make a decision, you made the right one. You chose to tell the truth and face the consequences. So long as you can still do that, then you deserve to wear that uniform. And I will still be proud to have you as my First Officer.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47423.9. We have arrived at Boraal Two in response to an emergency distress call from Lieutenant Worf's foster brother, Nikolai Rozhenko. He has been stationed on the planet as a cultural observer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Analysis. Mister Data.
DATA: The planet's atmosphere is dissipating, sir. Intense plasmonic reactions are destroying it. The stratosphere is already breaking down. There are turbulent radiation storms across much of its surface. I estimate that the planet will be uninhabitable in less than thirty eight hours.
RIKER: The distress call came in only four days ago. Why would Doctor Rozhenko have waited so long before sending it?
DATA: Atmospheric dissipation is a rare and essentially unpredictable event. When it occurs, it proceeds rapidly. Doctor Rozhenko may not have had sufficient warning.
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: The dissipation effect is generating plasmonic energy bursts.
RIKER: Is there any danger to the ship?
DATA: I do not believe so. However, we may experience intermittent system failures and power surges as a result.
PICARD: Keep an eye on it. Mister Worf, any luck?
WORF: There is still no response to our hails, sir. I am attempting to scan the observation post.
RIKER: He could be hurt. Maybe he can't respond.
WORF: Sensor interference is significant, but the post appears to be intact. Their power grid is still functioning. However, I am reading no life forms within the structure.
RIKER: It's not like him to the post.
PICARD: Especially under these circumstances.
WORF: Captain, I am detecting faint power emissions from a system of caverns near the post. It could be a deflector shield.
RIKER: That can't be native to the planet. The Boraalans don't have anything close to that level of technology.
WORF: Captain, request permission to lead an away team.
PICARD: Very well. But regardless of this planet's immediate situation, we must observe the Prime Directive. I want to minimize the risk of contact with the inhabitants. You will go alone, Mister Worf, and I want to have you surgically altered so that you could pass as a Boraalan.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're worried about Nikolai, aren't you?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: Are the two of you close?
WORF: We are brothers.
CRUSHER: You never talk much about him. What's he like?
WORF: Nikolai is older than I. We are not alike. We had many disagreements when we were growing up.
CRUSHER: That's not unusual.
WORF: Nikolai has a mind of his own. He attended Starfleet Academy, but he was unable to follow the rules. He left after one year. But he has many fine qualities. He is brilliant, persuasive. A natural leader.
CRUSHER: Sounds intriguing. I look forward to meeting him.

[Passageway]
VORIN: What are you doing here? You're not from our village. Who are you?
KATERAS: Who is this?
WORF: My name is Worf. I am a traveler.
VORIN: How did you survive the storms?
NIKOLAI: I would know that voice anywhere. Worf, is it really you? It's good to see you. You've changed a lot in four years.
WORF: Nikolai?
NIKOLAI: Yes. Oh, Worf. This is my brother, Worf. He's come to help us.

[Cavern]
VORIN: But if you were able to get here, the storms must have subsided.
WORF: Please.
VORIN: Do you think it's safe enough to return to the surface?
WORF: Please, I must speak to my brother.
WORF: Nikolai, what have you done?
NIKOLAI: They were dying. I refused to sit there safe in that observation post and watch it happen. I set up a deflector shield to screen these caves from the radiation and then I brought them here.
WORF: What did you tell them?
NIKOLAI: They think I'm a Boraalan. I told them I was from another village far from here.
WORF: At least you had that much sense.
NIKOLAI: When I sent the distress call I knew the Enterprise was in this sector, but I wasn't sure you'd be the one to come. I'm so glad that you're here, Worf.
WORF: Nikolai, there is nothing we can do for these people. You have only postponed their deaths.
NIKOLAI: I want to discuss that with your Captain.
WORF: And I am certain he will want to speak with you.
NIKOLAI: Friends, my brother and I must go back to the surface. He has provisions and will need help bringing them here. We'll return shortly.
DOBARA: It's too dangerous. The storms can occur without warning. If you're caught in one.
NIKOLAI: Don't worry. Worf is a seer. He understands the nature of the storms. He'll know when it's safe to travel.
WORF: Yes, that is correct.
KATERAS: Our seer died when the storms first came. We've been without his guidance for many weeks.
VORIN: Let me go with you. I know the terrain better than anyone and I can help.
NIKOLAI: No, Vorin. Worf and I will be safe. We'll return shortly.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Doctor, you were fully aware that the atmospheric dissipation could not be stopped. What did you hope to accomplish by assisting these people?
NIKOLAI: I was trying to give them a future. What I propose is we create an atmospheric shield on the planet. We can camouflage the equipment just as was done with my observation post. No one will ever know it's there.
RIKER: You can't be serious.
NIKOLAI: Indeed I am. I realize it will only provide atmosphere for a limited area on the surface, but it will be enough to save one village.
PICARD: I have no intention of compounding what you have done by committing another gross violation of the Prime Directive.
NIKOLAI: Captain, the Boraalans have a rich and beautiful culture, a deep spiritual life. They deserve the chance to survive. And isn't that what the Prime Directive was truly intended to do, to allow cultures to survive and grow naturally?
TROI: Not entirely. The Prime Directive was designed to ensure non-interference.
CRUSHER: But aren't we interfering either way? If we take no action, it's a conscious decision to let the Boraalans die.
NIKOLAI: Exactly. We have the power to save some of them. All we have to do is exercise it.
PICARD: We are sworn to uphold the principle of the Prime Directive, and until that is changed there is no further course of action that we can take. Is that understood?
NIKOLAI: Some of my log recorders are still in my observation post. They contain most of my research. Since it appears that the only way I'm going to preserve Boraalan culture is in a museum, I request permission to return to the surface and retrieve them.
PICARD: I'm afraid that won't be possible. But you can have full use of the ship's computer to set up a comm. link and upload your data from here. If there's nothing further, you're dismissed.
WORF: I'm sorry, Nikolai. I wish there were another way. I am quite familiar with your communications systems. If you like, I will help you set up your comm. link.
NIKOLAI: I'll do it myself.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, atmospheric dissipation has accelerated over the past several hours. I estimate the planet's atmosphere will be completely gone within three minutes.
NIKOLAI: Captain, I've completed my data uplink. With your permission, I would like to integrate my research logs with the ship's library computer.
PICARD: Of course.
DATA: The mesosphere is gone. Plasmonic reactions are now beginning to break down the troposphere.
PICARD: Put it on screen.
PICARD: What's going on?
DATA: It appears the plasmonic reactions are continuing to interfere with our sensors.
RIKER: I thought you had compensated for that.
DATA: I had, sir. I will attempt to engage additional filtering elements. Visual re-established.
PICARD: This is one of those times when we must face the ramifications of the Prime Directive and honor those lives which we cannot save.
NIKOLAI: I find no honor in this whatsoever, Captain. You will forgive me if I don't stay.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Helm, take us out of orbit. Set a course for Starbase eighty seven, warp five.
GATES: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What happened?
DATA: There appears to be an unusual power drain in the EPS distribution net.
RIKER: What's the source?
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is difficult to localize.
WORF: The power drain has registered on my security grid as well, sir. It appears to be coming from deck ten.
RIKER: All right, Mister Worf, get a security team on it.

[Corridor]
WORF: Concentrate your scans on the EPS transfer links.
WORF: Computer, open holodeck five.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck five is in use.
WORF: Override. Authorisation, Worf theta six one nine.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck control systems have been bypassed.
NIKOLAI: Worf Come in.

[Holodeck Cavern]
WORF: What are you doing here?
NIKOLAI: I have to show you something. Whatever you do, stay quiet.
NIKOLAI: Look.
NIKOLAI: I've done what you refused to do. I've saved them.

[Corridor]
NIKOLAI: I started thinking about this days ago when it became clear the planet was doomed. I knew if I could get access to your ship's computer, I could generate a replica of the caves. The hard part was transporting the Boraalans into the holodeck without anybody on the Enterprise noticing. But I was able to blank out the sensors and make it look like interference from the plasmonic bursts. And it worked, perfectly. The Boraalans were transported while they were sleeping. They never knew anything had happened.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge.
NIKOLAI: It's a simple plan, really. That's the beauty of it. Worf, trust me. This is going to work.
WORF: Trust you? You never had any intention of obeying the Captain.
NIKOLAI: I wasn't going to let those people die just because your Captain started quoting Federation dogma to me.
WORF: Your duty was to respect the Captain's orders and to uphold the Prime Directive.
NIKOLAI: Duty. That's all that really matters to you, isn't it? Well, I refuse to be bound by an abstraction. The lives of the people of Boraal are far more important to me. You worry too much, Worf. You always did. Everything will work out.
WORF: You have disgraced yourself and you have disgraced me. I want nothing more to do with you.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You realize your career is finished.
NIKOLAI: I know that, Captain, and I would do it all again.
PICARD: What do you expect us to do now? You have left us with a colony of Boraalans who think they're still on their planet.
NIKOLAI: I didn't beam them up without a plan. I've given this a lot of thought. I think we can find a new planet, an M class world, that can be their new home.
PICARD: A home which would look very different from Boraal. You can't really believe that they'll be fooled.
NIKOLAI: That's where the holodeck comes in. I'll go back and tell the Boraalans we're going on a journey, to a different place where they'll be safe from the storms. The holodeck can gradually change the terrain as we travel, so that at the end, the holodeck simulation will match the conditions on the new planet. Then we'll simply beam them down.
PICARD: What if it doesn't work? What if they become aware that something strange is going on?
NIKOLAI: Captain, I can't prepare for every contingency, but I assure you I'm accustomed to thinking on my feet. I'll deal with the situation as it evolves.
PICARD: I'm not enthusiastic about this plan, but I don't see that we have another option. Very well, let's give it a try.
NIKOLAI: Thank you, Captain.

[Stellar cartography]
CRUSHER: There are countless M class planets in Federation space which can support the Boraalans. We need to narrow the parameters.
DATA: It will take approximately nine and one half hours to complete the analysis.
PICARD: Even then there's no guarantee that we'll find a suitable planet.
DATA: That is correct, sir.
LAFORGE: Captain, you'd better take a look at this.
PICARD: What is it?
LAFORGE: We've got a problem, sir. I don't think it's going to be possible to keep this holodeck simulation stable.
PICARD: Why not?
LAFORGE: The plasmonic energy surges from the planet are affecting the ship's systems. We're having problems with the EPS systems and the power distribution matrix.
NIKOLAI: And as a result, the holodeck imaging processor has been severely destabilized.
LAFORGE: It's not a question of whether the simulation will break down, it's a question of when.
PICARD: There's no way round it?
LAFORGE: Not while it's running. In order to fix it, I'd have to shut down all of the holodecks and re-initialize the entire system.
PICARD: That will take hours.
NIKOLAI: We'll just have to hope the simulation holds long enough.
PICARD: Very well. Let's try it. Mister La Forge, I want you to monitor the situation very carefully, and keep an open comm. link with the Holodeck so as to be apprised of any problems.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
NIKOLAI: Captain, I'll return to the holodeck as soon as my surgical alterations are completed and I'll prepare the Boraalans for their journey.
PICARD: Considering the situation you have put us in, I don't think it's wise to leave you alone with those people. Mister Worf will accompany you.
WORF: Sir, perhaps someone else would be a better choice. Counselor Troi is familiar with
PICARD: Mister Worf, the Boraalans already know you. There's no need to introduce them to anyone new.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep a close eye on your brother. I don't want him making this situation worse than it is.

[Holodeck Cavern]
NIKOLAI: My friends, we have returned. We have food. This is difficult to say, but you have a right to hear it. By the time Worf and I had reached the surface, the village was gone. The storms have destroyed everything. There is nothing for us to return to.
DOBARA: We can't survive in here. Our supplies won't last forever.
NIKOLAI: That's why we must leave. There is a place far from here where there are no storms. It will be a difficult journey, but in the end we will have a new home.
WORF: I know a way through the caves. We will travel safely until we return to the surface.
VORIN: Where is this new land?
WORF: As we said, it is far from here. It will not be like the home you knew. Even the stars may be different.
VORIN: Why would they be different? And how do you know we'll be safe there?
NIKOLAI: My brother is a seer. If he says we'll be safe, you must trust that we will be safe.
KATERAS: What's wrong?
TARRANA: Look.
WORF: Do not worry. It is an omen.
DOBARA: What does it mean?
WORF: This is the sign of La Forge. It is a message to travelers. It is said when these lines appear and disappear

[Engineering]
WORF (voiceover): In a pool of water, the road ahead will be filled with good fortune.
LAFORGE: Hang in there, Worf. Give me just a second. There. That should do it.

[Holodeck Cavern]
NIKOLAI: You see? Our journey is already blessed. The road ahead is long. Let us have a meal together, then we'll make preparations to leave.
NIKOLAI: Worf, very good work. Apparently we don't make such a bad team after all.
WORF: We are not a team. I am here because Captain Picard ordered me here.
NIKOLAI: Worf, don't we both share the same goal? Aren't we both trying to make this plan work?
WORF: Only because you forced us into it.
NIKOLAI: I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm not sorry I saved their lives.
WORF: You have not changed. You still expect people to solve the problems you create.
NIKOLAI: I'm not here to work out the issues of our childhood. I'm here to save a people who I care about. And if that upsets you, then so be it.

[Stellar cartography]
DATA: These are the two planets which best match our search criteria. Draygo Four features an unusually large temperate zone. However, it is within three light years of Cardassian space.
CRUSHER: There are constant border disputes in that sector.
DATA: The alternative is Vacca Six. It is located in the Cabral sector.
CRUSHER: That's pretty isolated.
DATA: It offers a less hospitable climate than the Boraalans are accustomed to. However, it would still appear to be the better choice. Do you disagree, Doctor?
CRUSHER: No, Data, you're right. It's just that the enormity of what we're doing is overwhelming. We are deciding the future of a species.
DATA: It is a formidable responsibility.
CRUSHER: There are so many questions we don't have answers to. What if the climate is so different that it affects them in a way that we can't anticipate? How do we even know they'll be able to survive? And if they do, how will their society evolve and what impact will it have on the Vaccan system? We have no idea what this decision will mean to their future.
DATA: Doctor, I do not believe we can offer any guarantees. We can simply make the best choice we have at the moment.
CRUSHER: All right, Data. Vacca Six it is.
DATA: Data to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here.
DATA: We have located a new home for the Boraalans, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA (voiceover): It is Vacca Six in the Cabral sector.
RIKER: We can reach that in forty two hours at maximum warp, sir.
PICARD: Very well. Helm, set course for Vacca Six.
GATES: Aye, sir.

[Holodeck Cavern]
WORF: What is this?
VORIN: Our chronicle. The history of our village. Doesn't your village keep a chronicle?
WORF: Not in this manner.
VORIN: Then how do you teach your children their history, who their ancestors were, where they come from?
WORF: We tell each other stories, make up songs.
VORIN: Stories change with each person who tells them. This, this will always be the same. Our chronicle has been maintained for seventeen generations. I was only able to save the last six. This shows the destruction of our village. This is you and Nikolai leading us to safety.
WORF: We must leave. Gather your belongings.
VORIN: One of the scrolls is gone. I must have dropped it in the passageway. I'll go find it.
WORF: We must stay together. We will have to leave it behind.
VORIN: Worf, the chronicle is the life of our village. Without that past, our future means nothing. I must find it.
WORF: Go, and return quickly.
KATERAS: Seer. I am an old man. Would you help me with my gear?
WORF: Of course.
KATERAS: That is Tarrana, my daughter. I am fortunate she was old enough to survive the storms.
WORF: She is a fine girl.
KATERAS: She is a beautiful girl. She has not been promised to anyone. If I do not reach our new home, I would like her to become your wife.
WORF: You will reach your new home. I promise.

[Corridor]
WOMAN: Can I help you?

[Ten Forward]
MAN: All right, all right, it's okay. Do you need some help? It's okay.
RIKER: All right, everybody. Back off, back off.
TROI: I know things must look very strange to you, but everything's going to be all right. No one's going to hurt you. We're friends of Nikolai and Worf. Don't be afraid.
VORIN: Nikolai?
TROI: Yes. He's my friend. That means you are, too. I promise I won't hurt you.
VORIN: Please, help me. Where am I?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, there is nothing I can do. His neural physiology is unusual. I can't wipe his memory.
PICARD: I see. How is he?
CRUSHER: As well as can be expected. I've given him a mild sedative and Troi's been speaking with him. And he seems much calmer.
PICARD: Does he understand the situation?
CRUSHER: I think so.
PICARD: Contact Mister Worf. Make sure he knows what's going on.
TROI: Here he is now. This is Captain Picard.
PICARD: Vorin, isn't it?
VORIN: Why did you bring us here?
PICARD: Your planet was dying. It could no longer support life. We took you away from it.
VORIN: But we never left the caves.
PICARD: We have the ability to create the illusion of other places, like the caves on your planet. You have actually spent the last two days here on this starship, not on Boraal.
VORIN: Then our home is gone.
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Vorin, listen to me. We can visit many other worlds. We can take you to one where you can build a new life.
VORIN: A new life?
PICARD: A chance for your culture, your people, to survive and grow.
VORIN: How can we grow when everything that made us who we are is gone?

[Holodeck planet surface]
NIKOLAI: Dobara, you go on ahead.
WORF: I will carry your pack. Go and join the others.
KATERAS: Thank you, seer.
NIKOLAI: It'll be dark soon, in a few hours. Would you ask Mister La Forge to create a suitable campsite for us a few kilometers from here? What's wrong?
WORF: Vorin has left the holodeck.
NIKOLAI: How did he get out?
WORF: I do not know, but Doctor Crusher cannot erase his memory.
NIKOLAI: What will they do with him?
WORF: They have explained the situation to him. He must make his own decisions.
NIKOLAI: Wait. Are you saying that if Vorin wants to come back in here, they'll let him?
WORF: That is right. He is not a prisoner.
NIKOLAI: But if he comes back here and tells the others what he has seen on the Enterprise, everything we have done will be for nothing.
WORF: Then you should have considered that before you beamed them on board. But you never think about the consequences of your acts.
NIKOLAI: If you mean by that that I'm willing to do something while others hesitate, that's true.
WORF: Wherever you go, you create chaos. How many times did our parents lie awake at night, wondering what kind of trouble you were in?
NIKOLAI: Oh, if only I could have been like you. Worf, the perfect son.
WORF: I was not perfect, but I was not wild and disobedient.
NIKOLAI: Of course not. You were too busy doing your duty.
WORF: I would rather be accused of that than making our mother weep. But I see it is clear you have no intention of changing. I see no reason to discuss it further.

[Holodeck campsite]
WORF: Commander, the holodeck malfunctions

[Engineering]
WORF (voiceover): Are increasing.
LAFORGE: I'm running every stabilization routine I know.
WORF (voiceover): How much longer till we reach the new planet?
LAFORGE: We'll be there in less than eight hours. You're just going to have to hold things together a little while longer.
WORF (voiceover): Someone is coming.

[Holodeck campsite]
DOBARA: May I speak with you?
WORF: Yes, of course.
DOBARA: I don't know what Nikolai said to you but, please, forgive him.
WORF: It is an old argument.
DOBARA: I've never seen him like this. He's usually so confident, so sure of himself. But now he seems different. Do you know why?
WORF: No. No, I do not.
DOBARA: Ever since Vorin was lost, people have been afraid. Worried that we won't reach our new home. We need Nikolai's strength now more than ever. When the storms first came to our village, many of us were ready to die. But Nikolai refused to let us. He gathered us together and led us into caves. He saved us. He is a brave and compassionate man, and I love him. Please, go to him. Make things right between you. I want us to be a family.
WORF: Us?
DOBARA: Yes. I want you to consider yourself my brother. After all, you're going to be the uncle of my child.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are in synchronous orbit above the beam down site, sir.
PICARD: Good. Mister La Forge, how much longer before we can transport the Boraalans?
LAFORGE (voiceover): A few more hours, Captain, but we've got some problems here.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't think the holodeck's going to last that long. We've had materialization errors and resolution failures all over the place, and it's getting worse. The simulation could fall apart any minute.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We'll have the transporter room standing by. But we may have to transport the Boraalans whether you're ready or not. Please keep Mister Worf apprised.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. We still have one more problem to worry about.

[Vorin's quarters]
VORIN: Yes.
PICARD: We have arrived at the planet that I told you about. Have you made a decision?
VORIN: I believe I would like to go back to my people.
PICARD: I see. What do you intend to tell them?
VORIN: I don't know.
PICARD: If you tell them the truth, what will happen? Will they believe you?
VORIN: I'm not sure. It is a fantastic story.
PICARD: Perhaps they will think that you have had an hallucination, or that you're insane.
VORIN: I don't think I would like to live my life knowing what I know and being regarded as a madman.
PICARD: On the other hand, they may believe your fantastic story. They would learn about alien worlds, starships.
VORIN: That would be disastrous. It would destroy everything they believed in. I can't tell them the truth, but I don't think I can live with a secret.
PICARD: Then stay here. Make a future for yourself with us.
VORIN: I need some time. Please.

[Holodeck planet surface]
WORF: How could you have mated with a Boraalan? What were you thinking?
NIKOLAI: I don't owe you an explanation. This is a matter between Dobara and me.
WORF: As usual, you are thinking only of yourself.
NIKOLAI: And as usual, you are here to point out the error of my ways.
WORF: You have treated Dobara with dishonor.
NIKOLAI: I have not! I love her and we're going to raise our child together.
WORF: That is not possible. I cannot allow you to stay here.
NIKOLAI: You will have to kill me first.
DOBARA: What does it mean ?
NIKOLAI: The storms have returned.
KATERAS: We will be killed.
NIKOLAI: No, you won't. Worf has the power to end the storms once and for all.
WORF: Yes. But everyone must take shelter in the tents.
KATERAS: The tents won't protect us.
NIKOLAI: Worf will protect you. You must trust him. Hurry, hurry. Get to your tents now.
WORF: Commander, it might be helpful if you could produce

[Engineering]
WORF (voiceover): A storm. Wind, lightning and thunder.
LAFORGE: I'll see what I can do.

[Holodeck planet surface]
NIKOLAI: Get in! Get in! The storm is getting worse! Stay inside. Worf and I will take care of you.
WORF: Commander, energize.

[Planet surface]
WORF: The storms will not return.
NIKOLAI: As I said he would, my brother Worf has saved us all.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47427.2. The Boraalans have safely reached the site of what will eventually become their new village. None of them suspects they ever left their planet. However, our success has come at a high price.

[Vorin's quarters]
CRUSHER: I think it was some form of ritual suicide.
PICARD: He said that he had nowhere to go.
CRUSHER: He would have died even if we hadn't interfered.
PICARD: But he wouldn't have died alone and afraid.
CRUSHER: Are you saying you're sorry we saved the Boraalans?
PICARD: No, of course not. Our plan for them worked out well. But I wish that Vorin could have bridged the gap between our two cultures. I would have liked the chance to have known him better.

[Planet surface]
NIKOLAI: Go inside.
DOBARA: Nikolai, don't.
NIKOLAI: Please.
NIKOLAI: I told you, you would have to kill me to get me away from here.
WORF: I do not want to fight you, Nikolai.
NIKOLAI: Things were never easy between us, were they?
WORF: No.
NIKOLAI: It's my fault. If I'd been more like you, we wouldn't have had so many problems.
WORF: No. If you had been more like me, these people would not be here now. You gave them a chance at a new life.
NIKOLAI: And I intend to share that life with them. The village will need a new chronicle. Someone will have to begin it. My child will need a father. My place is here. I'm finally taking responsibility.
WORF: You were never good at drawing. How will you keep a chronicle?
NIKOLAI: I learn quickly.
WORF: Then perhaps there is hope.
WORF: Could I take this with me?
NIKOLAI: It's yours.
WORF: I will have to explain all of this to mother and father.
NIKOLAI: They won't understand.
WORF: They may. I will tell them that you are happy.

[Graveyard]
CRUSHER: Most people on this colony will remember my grandmother as a healer, but her abilities went beyond that. She didn't just relieve pain and fight illness. She knew that wellbeing is more than a healthy body. Her remedies often included words of advice as well as medicinal teas, and often they were just as bitter tasting. I will miss Felisa Howard very much. Her healing, her advice, and most of all, the inspiration she has provided me throughout the years. Rest in peace, Nana.
MATURIN: And so now we commit her body to the ground, earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in sure and certain hope that her memory will be kept alive within us all.
ALL: Amen.
TROI: That was a beautiful.
CRUSHER: Oh, thank you. Deanna, did you notice a strange man at the service? He was in his mid-thirties with longish hair?
TROI: No.
CRUSHER: He threw a flower on Nana's grave. A camellia. It was her favorite flower. She used to keep them all over the house.
TROI: Maybe he was a friend or one of her patients.
CRUSHER: It was a very personal gesture, and he gave me a remarkable look. Well, I guess I should be going back to the house. There are some things I need to do. It's only a few minutes from here. Would you mind coming along?
TROI: I'd love to.
CRUSHER: Thanks.
MATURIN: How long do you plan on staying?
PICARD: A few more hours. Why?
MATURIN: Well, as you know, Caldos is one of the first terraforming projects of the Federation. Our weather controls and fusion systems are nearly a century old. I wouldn't mind having a starship Engineer take a look at them. Perhaps give us a few upgrades. Maybe in exchange for a tour of the colony and a home-cooked meal?
PICARD: Well, we are due at Starbase six two one tomorrow morning, but we could delay for a few days. Yes, I'm sure we could find the time.
MATURIN: Excellent.
PICARD: I would enjoy that tour. Caldos Colony is a most impressive accomplishment. I actually feel as if I'm in the Scottish Highlands.
MATURIN: That was the intent. The cornerstone of every building in town was brought from Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen. The founders wanted everyone to feel they had a piece of the real thing here. They didn't want to just imitate Scotland, they wanted to recreate it.
PICARD: Tell me, Governor, I'm curious. You're obviously not Scots yourself. What was it that drew you here?
MATURIN: Something about the culture, the heritage. When I was a boy, my family visited Glamis Castle in Scotland. As I looked out across the highlands, I felt as if I had come home.

[Howard home]
TROI: Your grandmother had remarkable green eyes.
CRUSHER: Every woman in the Howard family has had green eyes, except for my mother and me.
TROI: How well do you remember your mother?
CRUSHER: Very well. I loved her very much. I can remember her face smiling down at me, and I can remember the sound of her voice and her scent. But mostly I remember Nana, who raised me after my mother died.
TROI: That's beautiful.
CRUSHER: It's a family heirloom. It's been in the Howard clan for generations. It's supposed to symbolize the enduring Howard spirit. Wherever they may go, the shining light to guide them through their fortune. Nana always kept it lit. I remember sitting here listening to ghost stories with only the candle burning.
TROI: You should take it with you.
CRUSHER: I think I will.
TROI: I'm going to head back to the ship.
CRUSHER: You don't have to leave.
TROI: I just thought you'd like some time alone. I'll see you later.
CRUSHER: Thanks.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Who's there?
CRUSHER: What the hell are you doing? Get out of my house.
QUINT: I wouldna be so high and mighty with me, Beverly Howard Crusher. I've spent more time here in the past five years than ye have in the past twenty.
CRUSHER: How do you know who I am?
QUINT: I'm Ned Quint. I took care of your grandmother's house and her affairs.
CRUSHER: Nana never mentioned you.
QUINT: There's a lot of things she didna talk about. Let me get rid of that candle.
CRUSHER: Why?
QUINT: That candle has brought nothing but misery and bad luck to your grandmother.
CRUSHER: Look, Mister Quint, I don't know what your relationship was with my grandmother, but this is my house now and these are my things.
QUINT: That candle has been a curse on your family for generations. If ye have a lick of sense, you'll listen to me right now and do away with it. Now give it to me.
CRUSHER: This is a family heirloom and I intend to keep it. Now would you please get out of my house. Now!
QUINT: Howard women. Always the same stubborn fools. I wash my hands of it now. You stay on in this house and you keep that damned candle. I'll not be responsible for what happens.
CRUSHER: Get out.

[Engineering]
DATA: The colony's aqueduct system is functioning normally, as are the communication relays.
MATURIN: We've been having a few tremors over the past couple of months. Could you check the seismic stabilizers?
DATA: Certainly.
MATURIN: You can't imagine what it's like trying to enjoy afternoon tea while the earth is shaking.
LAFORGE: Governor, did you know you had a power fluctuation in your weather control system?
MATURIN: No. Our weather control's been working perfectly for the last twenty two years.
LAFORGE: I can't isolate the exact source, but the fluctuation seems to be originating from one of the substations that regulates atmospheric humidity for the colony.
MATURIN: Is this going to be a problem?
LAFORGE: No, not yet, but power distribution patterns are already off by five percent.
DATA: I suggest we analyze the planet's weather patterns to see if they have been affected. I am reading unusually high humidity across the entire southern desert region and there is increasing cloud activity above the northern coastal area. Possibly the formation of a storm system.
MATURIN: A storm? It's the middle of summer. We don't have rain at this time of year.
LAFORGE: Data, let's see if we can correct this. I'll check out the colony's climatic flow array.
DATA: I will run a diagnostic on the thermal regulators.
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Governor. We'll keep you dry.
MATURIN: I certainly hope so. There's a caber toss scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. I'd hate to see it spoiled by an unexpected downpour.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: You wouldn't believe what I've been reading about in my grandmother's journals. You know she had a lover? Can you believe that? Nana was a hundred years old.
PICARD: It would seem the Howard women have exceptionally vigorous libidos.
CRUSHER: I certainly hope so. After all, I hope I can find a handsome young man in his thirties when I pass the century mark.
PICARD: Thirties?
CRUSHER: Yes. According to these journals, his name is Ronin and he's thirty four years old. They met just after my great-grandmother's death. And I think I saw him at the funeral. A handsome young man tossed a camellia onto her grave. But the strange thing is, she never mentioned him in her letters. Never once. And yet it appears they spent almost all their time together. It's as if she led an entire life that I knew nothing about.
PICARD: Well it looks like we're going to be on Caldos for a few days more. This will be a good opportunity to get your grandmother's affairs in order.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
PICARD: Thirties?

[Crusher's quarters]
RONIN (voiceover): Beverly.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: You dreamt you were in bed with someone?
CRUSHER: Not exactly. I was in bed but there wasn't another person in my dream. It was more like a presence.
TROI: You said you felt a touch.
CRUSHER: A pair of hands. They were moving across my skin.
TROI: Like a caress?
CRUSHER: Yes. And there was a voice, a man. He whispered my name. It was as if I knew him, or more like he knew me. He knew exactly how I liked to be touched. It was the most physical dream I've ever had. The sensations were very real and extremely arousing.
TROI: Frankly, I'm envious.
CRUSHER: I did fall asleep reading a particularly erotic chapter in my grandmother's journal. She wrote very detailed descriptions of her experiences with Ronin.
TROI: Well, that's bound to cause a dream or two. So, shall we start going over the personnel reports?
CRUSHER: You know, I think he had a ring on one of his hands when he touched my shoulder, my neck. I wonder if I'll have another dream tonight.
TROI: I'd read two chapters.

[Graveyard]
QUINT: You probably want to be alone. I'll leave.
CRUSHER: No, Ned, it's okay. Look, I'm sorry we got off to a bad start yesterday. I've been reading my grandmother's journals and I know how much you meant to her.
QUINT: Aye, she was a grand lady. You'll not see many more like her. You have your grandmother's fire, that's for sure.
CRUSHER: Ned, you're welcome to stay at the house after I've gone. I need someone to take care of the place.
QUINT: That's verra kind of you, lass, but I'll ne'er set foot in that house again. And I recommend that you dinna, either.
CRUSHER: Why?
QUINT: Like I tried to tell your grandmother, the hoose is haunted.
CRUSHER: Haunted?
QUINT: You believe what you want, lass. Just dinna light that candle.
CRUSHER: Why not?
QUINT: It'll bring the ghost. It's his home. Oh, he's out now, wanderin' across the land, angry, angry at being driven out. That's why he's bringing the storms.
CRUSHER: Ned, the weather systems control is malfunctioning. The Enterprise is trying to repair it.
QUINT: Oh, sure. But who do you think is causing the malfunction?
CRUSHER: I think your imagination is
QUINT: Think what you want. See what you want. Just do as I say. Dinna light that candle or dinna go to that hoose, or before you know it, they'll be burying another Howard in this cemetery.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am detecting atmospheric turbulence over the colony and large pockets of electrical activity.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: It is growing in intensity, sir.
RIKER: That's one hell of a thunderstorm.
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister Data, we're reading

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): An extremely large storm system over the Caldos colony.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I thought that the weather control malfunction was not severe.

[Engineering]
DATA: It began as a minor power fluctuation, sir, but the effect has spread throughout the control grid. It has caused an unusual concentration of cumulonimbus activity above the colony.
LAFORGE: Captain, I suggest we set up a power transfer between the Enterprise and the weather substations. Try to give them enough power to stabilize the storm.
PICARD (voiceover): Make it so.

[Howard home]
CRUSHER: Who's there? Ned? Is that you? Hello? I know somebody's here, so I suggest you
CRUSHER: All right now, that's it. If you don't show yourself right now I am calling the Enterprise and there will be ten security guards here within thirty seconds.
RONIN (voiceover): Beverly. Beverly, I've come back for you
CRUSHER: Who are you?
RONIN (voiceover): Don't you remember? I came to you last night while you were asleep.
CRUSHER: No, that was a dream. I'm calling the Enterprise.
RONIN (voiceover): Now do you remember me?
CRUSHER: Yes. What's, what's happening to me? Right now I feel so strange.
RONIN (voiceover): I love you, Beverly, just as I loved Felisa before you.
CRUSHER: Are you Ronin?
RONIN (voiceover): Yes. You saw me at the funeral.
CRUSHER: Who are you?
RONIN (voiceover): I'm a spirit.
CRUSHER: I don't believe in
RONIN (voiceover): Ghosts? Nor did I in the beginning. I was born in sixteen forty seven, in Glasgow on Earth.
CRUSHER: You're telling me that you're an eight hundred year old ghost?
RONIN (voiceover): I found a home with Jessel Howard. She was a pretty lass with a mane of red hair, and eyes like diamonds. I loved her very much. When she died, I stayed with her daughter, and her daughter, and on down through the years, generation after generation.
CRUSHER: And now you're here on Caldos, two hundred light years away?
RONIN (voiceover): When your family moved out into the galaxy, I moved with them.
CRUSHER: I don't believe you.
RONIN (voiceover): I believe you are the most beautiful women I have ever known.
CRUSHER: What's, what's happening to me?
RONIN (voiceover): We're becoming one, Beverly. We're going to be together.
CRUSHER: I don't understand. Stop it!

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Come in.
TROI: Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class this morning.
CRUSHER: No, I think I'll skip it today. I'm exhausted.
TROI: Did you have another dream last night?
CRUSHER: Not exactly.
TROI: Is anything wrong?
CRUSHER: Not at all.
TROI: Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing someone.
CRUSHER: Deanna.
TROI: Now I know you're seeing someone.
CRUSHER: I'm not seeing anybody. I met someone, that's all.
TROI: Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when are you going to realize that you can't fool me? Who is it?
CRUSHER: All right. I met Ronin.
TROI: Ronin? Your grandmother's lover?
CRUSHER: He's unlike anyone I've ever met before. I know this sounds crazy, but I have never known anyone who was so
TROI: Passionate.
CRUSHER: Exactly. I can see why Nana fell in love with him. This sounds very strange, doesn't it?
TROI: I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to consider something. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss. Very often, shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of closeness and romance.
CRUSHER: Thank you for your concern, but I think I know what I'm doing. Besides, I didn't say I was in love with him. I'm just intrigued.

[Turbolift]
MATURIN: You know, Captain, I moved to this colony because it was a recreation of Scotland, but I must admit it's getting to be a little too realistic.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What the hell is going on?
DATA: There appears to be a condensed suspension of water vapor, approximately one degree Celsius.
PICARD: Fog.
RIKER: It just sort of rolled in on us, sir.
WORF: There has been a malfunction in the ship's environmental control.
RIKER: We've traced the problem to the power transfer beam. There's some sort of feedback coming from one of the colony's weather substations.
MATURIN: Another power fluctuation?
WORF: Captain, the temperature in Ten Forward has dropped to below freezing and deck thirteen has lost gravity.
PICARD: Mister Data, disengage the power transfer.
DATA: I am unable to terminate the connection, sir. A feedback loop has formed in the transfer beam. I will have to go to the substation and attempt to correct the problem from there.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD: In the meantime, I think I'll go get my jacket.

[Weather control station]
DATA: I have analyzed the control module in the primary weather control grid. It appears the station is experiencing a system wide power failure.
LAFORGE: This is impossible. The back up systems should have
DATA: Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I must ask you to stop.
QUINT: No! Get away from me! You dinna understand. He's trying to kill us all.
DATA: He is dead.
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, he was trying to shut down the entire weather control system. He was pulling out the primary plasma conduit. That's probably what caused the plasma discharge that killed him.
MATURIN: I knew Ned Quint. He was an honest man. He mostly kept to himself. I don't know why he'd try something like that.
LAFORGE: It's going to take us some time to get the system back online. I'd say we need another day at least.
DATA: In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems to continue.
CRUSHER: I think you'd better take a look at this.
CRUSHER: Data, you said there was a plasma discharge from the console when Quint was killed.
DATA: That is correct.
CRUSHER: Well, that wasn't what killed him. I'm detecting an anomalous energy residual throughout his body, right down to the cellular level. Whatever it is, it wasn't the result of a plasma discharge.
LAFORGE: Anything?
DATA: I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to have the same anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed from the weather control system.
LAFORGE: Then it's possible that whatever caused the weather malfunctions also killed Quint.
DATA: It is possible.
LAFORGE: We should scan the colony for any energy readings that match this anaphasic signature.
CRUSHER: Governor, with your permission, I'd like to take the body back to the ship to run further tests.
MATURIN: Of course, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Ensign, ask Doctor Selar run a biospectral analysis.
NURSE: Yes, Doctor.
MATURIN: You're not going to run the tests yourself?
CRUSHER: No. I have some things I need to attend to.

[Howard home]
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to talk to you. Are you here?
RONIN (voiceover): I'm here. Beverly, did you miss me?
CRUSHER: Yes. But I must talk to you. There's been an accident.
RONIN (voiceover): I know. Quint is dead.
CRUSHER: Why did it happen? What was he doing?
RONIN (voiceover): Beverly, there's something more important we should talk about.
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to know. Quint's dead.
CRUSHER: Ronin?
RONIN: Yes. I need you to help me.
CRUSHER: Help you?
RONIN: It's not easy for me to take corporeal form. I can't do it for long. I want you to light the candle.
CRUSHER: Quint said you lived in the candle. Is that true?
RONIN: Yes. If I'm away from it for too long, I begin to weaken. That's why the women in your family have always kept the candle lit.
CRUSHER: The candle's on the ship. I'll go get it.
RONIN: No. I must go with you.
CRUSHER: How?
RONIN: The power transfer beam. I can travel along it.
CRUSHER: And when the candle's lit, then what happens?
RONIN: Then we'll be together, always.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Computer, secure door.
CRUSHER: I lit the candle. Where are you?
RONIN: It's all right. We're together. we're going to be one. I'm going to become part of you, Beverly. Would you like that?
CRUSHER: Oh, yes. More than anything.
RONIN: As it was with your grandmother, and your great-grandmother, and all of the Howard women before them. I'll take care of you. And you will feel love as you've never felt it before.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Beverly, what the hell is this?
CRUSHER: I thought it was pretty self-explanatory. I'm leaving Starfleet. Energize.
PICARD: Belay that order.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Beverly, you can't just resign.
CRUSHER: I can, and I have. I've decided to stay on Caldos and become a healer like my grandmother. It's a proud Howard tradition and I've decided to uphold it. Energize. I've resigned my commission, so unless you plan on kidnapping me?

[Ready room]
TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth.
PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying?
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.
PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly at all.
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if we don't feel it's a good one.
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body.
PICARD: Where?
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometers from the center of the colony, sir. It is coming from the cemetery.
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can pinpoint the source.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin.

[Graveyard]
LAFORGE: The energy readings are coming from this direction, but I can't get an exact location. I'll try narrowing the scan field.
DATA: The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two meters below the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this burial site.

[Howard home]
CRUSHER: I'm so glad you're here. I can't imagine what life was like before I met you.
RONIN: And it will only get better.
CRUSHER: Oh, Ronin. I had no idea I could feel this way.
RONIN (voiceover): We're nearly merged now. As two candles join to form a single light, so we will flourish as one.
RONIN (voiceover): I love you, Beverly.
CRUSHER: I love you.
PICARD: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Sorry I startled you. I knocked but there was no answer. The door was open. I hope you don't mind.
CRUSHER: What do you want?
PICARD: Well, I'd hoped to meet your new friend, Ronin.
CRUSHER: He's not here.
PICARD: Well, perhaps I could wait, if you don't mind. I'm really anxious to meet this remarkable young man who swept away not just one, but two of the Howard women.
CRUSHER: Jealousy doesn't suit you, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Have you changed the color of your eyes?
CRUSHER: I just grew tired of the other color. Don't you think it suits me?
PICARD: I think that I preferred your eyes the way they were before. I think I preferred you the way you were before, Beverly.
CRUSHER: Well, this is the way I am now. And this is my life. I've made my decision and I'm not going to change my mind, so please leave me alone.
PICARD: Oh, no, there's something's wrong here. Now, Beverly, this is more than just an obsessive love affair that has got out of hand. Tell me, why is it that no one has seen this Ronin except you?
RONIN: All right, Captain. Here I am. I believe Beverly asked you to leave her alone.
PICARD: So, you're Ronin. It's a pleasure to meet you. Where are you from?
RONIN: Earth. Scotland.
PICARD: How long have you been on Caldos?
RONIN: All that matters is that I'm here now, and that Beverly and I plan to be together for the rest our lives.
DATA (voiceover): Data to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Data.
DATA (voiceover): Captain, we have located the source of the energy residual. It appears to be concentrated within Felisa Howard's coffin.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, we'd like permission to exhume the body.
RONIN: You can't do that. Leave her alone.
PICARD: Why not? What are you afraid of?
RONIN: I'm not afraid of anything. But I cannot allow you to desecrate her grave.
PICARD: Data, ask Governor Maturin's permission to exhume the body. Picard out.
RONIN: I won't stand for this. I'll go to the Governor myself.
PICARD: Go on. I wouldn't be surprised if he doesn't know who you are. He'll probably have the same questions that I do. How did you get here? What ship did you come on?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, leave him alone.
PICARD: Why don't you answer my questions? What ship? I'd like to look at the passenger list. Where have you been living here? What's your position? Who are your neighbors?
PICARD: Come on, Beverly, we've got to get out of here.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.
RONIN (voiceover): Beverly, we must stop the others. They cannot exhume the body.
CRUSHER: We can't just leave him. He might die.
RONIN (voiceover): You must come. I am your love. I am the one who will take care of you.
CRUSHER: I can't just let him die.
RONIN: Beverly, come with me.
CRUSHER: No. No!
RONIN: I'm sorry, I'm going to stop them.
CRUSHER: Come on, come on.
PICARD: I'm all right. Beverly, go after him. Go to the cemetery.

[Graveyard]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise. We're ready down here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.
DATA: I am reading definite signs of anaphasic energy in her body. It appears to extend to the cellular level.
LAFORGE: That's impossible. She wasn't anywhere near the weather station when Quint was killed. She died of natural causes.
DATA: I suggest we run a deep tissue scan to look for any signs of
CRUSHER: No! Ronin, stop this. Stop this, please.
FELISA: Beverly, it's all right. Have trust in me.
CRUSHER: You're not Nana. Nana's dead. Leave her alone!
RONIN: Beverly! Forgive me. These men were trying to stop us from being together. Once they're gone, everything will be right.
CRUSHER: No, it won't. You've been infusing me with the same sort of anaphasic energy that killed Quint.
RONIN: He was trying to destroy me. I had to defend myself. My love. I could never harm you. I am here to protect you.
CRUSHER: No, you're not. There's no such thing as a ghost. You are some sort of anaphasic lifeform. Anaphasic energy is extremely unstable. It needs an organic host in order to maintain molecular cohesion or else you'll die. Isn't that right?
RONIN: Beverly.
CRUSHER: I also scanned the candle. The flame is plasma based. You were using it as a receptacle for yourself in order to get to me, in order to merge with me. You have been using me, Nana, my entire family for centuries.
RONIN: And I loved all of them! And they loved me. Give me the candle, Beverly.
CRUSHER: No. No.
RONIN: Put it down, or I will kill him. Set it down and walk away.
RONIN: No!
CRUSHER: Crusher to Riker. Will, close off all the plasma conduits in the weather control system. I'll explain later.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood.
CRUSHER: You've nowhere left to go.
RONIN: Yes, I do.
CRUSHER: Keep away from me.
RONIN: Beverly. I love you. Beverly.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Mister Data have recovered from their exposure to the anaphasic energy, but I'm afraid Doctor Crusher's recovery will be of a more personal nature.

[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Somehow, he realized that one of my ancestors had a biochemistry that was compatible with his energy matrix. I imagine that he took human form and seduced her like he did me. I was about to be initiated into a very unusual relationship. You might call it a family tradition. But there's a part of me that's a little sad.
TROI: How so?
CRUSHER: I re-read the entries in my grandmother's journals. Whatever else he might have done, he made her very happy.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Fletcher has more experience with propulsion systems.
TROI: But Carstairs is better with people. Considering this is a supervisory position, I'd go with her.
RIKER: I guess you're right. Didn't we just do crew evaluation reports?
TROI: Three months ago.
RIKER: It seems like three weeks. Why don't we just give everybody a promotion and call it a night, Commander?
TROI: Fine with me, Captain.
RIKER: Could we have two coffees, please.
LAVELLE: What could be so funny? What's so funny about crew evaluations?
OGAWA: Don't worry about it, Sam.
SITO: Can't we just try and have a good time here?
LAVELLE: How can I have a good time when my career's being decided across the room? Come on. Think promotion. Promotion. Promotion.
TAURIK: You can't really believe that what you are doing will influence the outcome of your evaluation.
LAVELLE: Promotion. Promotion. Promotion.
OGAWA: It's a time-honored strategy, Taurik.
SITO: The Vedeks of the Janalan order maintain a round the clock chant for the benefit of the Bajoran people.
TAURIK: Considering the history of your planet, that doesn't exactly validate what he's doing.
LAVELLE: Promote me, please, so I can make Lieutenant and have my own room.
TAURIK: If you're unhappy sharing quarters with me, then you should put in for a new room assignment. Just in case you're not promoted.
RIKER: I've been thinking about who to promote to Ops.
TROI: The new night duty officer?
RIKER: Lavelle is an obvious candidate, but I'm also considering Ensign Sito.
TROI: Thank you.
BEN: You're welcome. Are you sure about dessert?
TROI: Yes. Don't tempt me.
LAVELLE: So, are they working on crew evaluations?
BEN: Yep.
SITO: Who are they talking about?
BEN: It's not my place to say.
SITO: Come on, Ben.
LAVELLE: Please.
BEN: All right, but I'm not sure you two are going to like it. Apparently, you two are up for the same job.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Lock phasers on target.
SITO: Phasers locked.
DATA: The enemy is firing.
RIKER: Helm, hard to starboard.
LAVELLE: Hard to starboard.
RIKER: Fire phasers.
SITO: Firing.
DATA: Target is destroyed.
RIKER: End simulation sequence. Secure from drill. Alpha shift, your response time was seven percent slower than the gamma shift. All departments, submit drill evaluation reports

[Engineering]
RIKER (voiceover): By oh nine hundred hours.
LAFORGE: Ensign, you'll write that report.
TAURIK: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What happened back there, Ensign?
SITO: I'm sorry, sir. When we changed course I had to re-lock phasers before I could fire.
RIKER: Next time, try letting the locking relay float until the actual order to fire is given. They may not teach that trick at the Academy, but it works.
SITO: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Lavelle.
LAVELLE: Sir?
RIKER: Resume previous course and speed.
LAVELLE: Aye, aye, sir.
RIKER: One aye is sufficient acknowledgment, Ensign.
PICARD: Helm, change course for the Argaya system, maximum warp.
LAVELLE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What happened to the rendezvous with the Clement?
PICARD: I've just received new orders from Starfleet. We'll discuss it in the Observation lounge. Mister Data, Mister Worf.
RIKER: Ensign Sito, take over at Ops.
SITO: Yes, sir.
SITO: The Argaya system's close to the Cardassian border. I wonder why we're going there. How'd you like to be a spider under that table?
LAVELLE: What?
SITO: A spider under the table.
LAVELLE: Is that like a fly on the wall?
SITO: I guess so. You did really well during the drill.
LAVELLE: Well apparently Commander Riker didn't think so. I swear he's got it in for me.
SITO: You're imagining things.
LAVELLE: Yeah? Then how come you're sitting in that chair instead of me?
SITO: I guess he figured I need more practice than you do.

[Engineering]
TAURIK: Excuse me, sir. Do you have a minute?
LAFORGE: Sure, Taurik. What is it?
TAURIK: I'd like you to take a look at something.
LAFORGE: Have you been improvising again, Ensign?
TAURIK: In a manner of speaking. I'm running a computer simulation to test a new warp field configuration.
LAFORGE: You've got a problem here. Your plasma flow to the nacelles is out of sync.
TAURIK: Actually, sir, that was done deliberately. As you can see, this configuration has increased overall warp field integrity by seven percent.
LAFORGE: You're right.
TAURIK: Doctor Nils Diaz has been experimenting with this technique at the Tanaline Propulsion Laboratory.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm familiar with his work, but I never heard anything about this.
TAURIK: His findings have not been released yet. I was able to review a preliminary report when I was at the Academy.
LAFORGE: I look forward to reading about it
TAURIK: I predict that when these findings are made public, they will become a new model for warp field operation.
LAFORGE: Sounds interesting.
TAURIK: With your permission, sir, I'd like to begin tests to see if the technique can be adapted to our warp drive.
LAFORGE: There might be variables that you didn't account for.
TAURIK: I was quite thorough.
LAFORGE: I'm sure you were, but I'd still need to see your simulation before I authorize any tests.
TAURIK: As you wish.
LAFORGE: If you have any other ideas for increasing efficiency, don't hesitate to run them by me.
TAURIK: As a matter of fact, sir, I do. When would be a good time to discuss them?
LAFORGE: I'll get back to you on that.

[Crusher's office]
OGAWA: Excuse me, Doctor.
CRUSHER: If you're wondering about the evaluations, things couldn't be better.
OGAWA: Actually, I just wanted to tell you that Ensign Reilly's condition is showing improvement. But thank you.
CRUSHER: In fact, I'm recommending you for a promotion. How does Lieutenant Alyssa Ogawa sound?
OGAWA: It sounds wonderful.
CRUSHER: I'll talk to Commander Riker and I'm sure it'll be official as soon as the current crew evaluations are over. Oh, Alyssa, how are things going between you and Lieutenant Powell?
OGAWA: Fine. I think.
CRUSHER: You think?
OGAWA: I'm sure it's nothing, but he seems preoccupied lately. Last night he had to cancel our date.
CRUSHER: I see.
OGAWA: He's been putting together a research proposal. He's been really busy with it.
CRUSHER: I know what that's like. Sometimes I get so busy with research I forget to eat.
OGAWA: I just wonder.
CRUSHER: What? Sit down.
OGAWA: I've never met anyone like Andrew. It's as though we've known each other forever.
CRUSHER: You do seem very well suited.
OGAWA: But I know that in the beginning of a romance it's possible to be a little blind.
CRUSHER: I'm not sure I know what you mean.
OGAWA: Well, canceling a date like that, the way he's been so distant lately. Doctor, do you think those could be warning signs that he's losing interest?
CRUSHER: Alyssa, I think you're overreacting.
OGAWA: Maybe so.
CRUSHER: If I cared as much about someone as much as you care about Andrew, he'd have to do a lot more than cancel a date before I'd get suspicious.
OGAWA: You're right.
CRUSHER: I'm sure that when this research is over, things will be back just the way they were.
OGAWA: Except, of course, that he'll have to deal with Lieutenant Ogawa.

[Ten Forward]
SITO: I only filled in at Ops for a half hour, but I had to degauss the main deflector dish, recalibrate the navigation grid, and use internal sensors to find a lost puppy.
WORF: Ops is a very different challenge from Tactical.
SITO: I can't figure out why I'm even being considered for this assignment. I'm a security officer.
WORF: I recommended you.
SITO: I'll try not to let you down, sir.
LAVELLE: What could they be talking about?
TAURIK: Have you ever considered learning to lip read?
LAVELLE: You think Worf's chewing her out?
BEN: No, he always looks like that.
LAVELLE: Maybe he's giving her pointers on how to land the Ops position.
BEN: Hi, Will.
RIKER: Ben. How you doing?
LAVELLE: You call him Will?
BEN: Why not?
LAVELLE: He's second in command of this ship, that's why not.
BEN: I'm not Starfleet, I'm a civilian. When he's in here, he wants to be treated like a civilian.
LAVELLE: Riker? I bet he sleeps in his uniform.
BEN: You only think that because he's your CO. If you got to know him.
LAVELLE: Right.
TAURIK: He's convinced Commander Riker doesn't like him.
BEN: Why? Did you crash the ship into something?
LAVELLE: No. He just doesn't like me.
TAURIK: He doesn't even know you.
BEN: That's right. You should go talk to him.
LAVELLE: About what?
TAURIK: Perhaps something you have in common.
BEN: He likes Jazz, poker. He's Canadian.
LAVELLE: Yeah? My grandfather was from Canada.
BEN: There you go.
SITO: Hi.
LAVELLE: Excuse me, I've got to go talk to somebody.
LAVELLE: Good evening, sir.
RIKER: Lavelle. Something I can do for you?
LAVELLE: No, sir. I just came to get another drink.
RIKER: Is there something wrong with that one?
LAVELLE: No, actually, I, er. What are you having?
RIKER: Trakian Ale.
LAVELLE: Good choice. I'll have one, too. My grandfather was Canadian, you know.
RIKER: Really?
LAVELLE: Aren't you one, too?
RIKER: A grandfather?
LAVELLE: No, Canadian, sir. Canadian.
RIKER: No, I grew up in Alaska.
LAVELLE: Oh. Well, they both get a lot of snow.
RIKER: Yeah.
LAVELLE: It was good talking to you, sir.
BARTENDER: Your ale, Ensign.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're holding position in the Argaya System.
PICARD: Anything?
WORF: No, sir. I detect no vessels in the vicinity.
PICARD: How close to the Cardassian border are we?
DATA: Less than five thousand kilometers, sir.
WORF: Sir, I am detecting an object five meters in length. It appears to be an escape pod.
RIKER: They must have been forced to abandon the ship.
PICARD: How far inside Cardassian space is it?
WORF: Fifty thousand kilometers.
PICARD: How the hell are we going to get it out of there?
DATA: Sir, the pod's life support system is failing.
RIKER: Notify Doctor Crusher.
PICARD: Can we get within transporter range without crossing into Cardassian territory?
DATA: We would need to boost the gain on the confinement beam by at least seven percent.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'm on it, Captain. There, try that.
TAURIK: The pod is still too far away.
LAFORGE: I'm going to try augmenting the frequency spread.
TAURIK: Bio readings indicate that passenger's humanoid. Attempting life form identification.
LAFORGE: No one told you to do that, Ensign. Let's just get him aboard safely. There, that should do it.
TAURIK: Confinement beam's at one hundred nine percent of normal.
LAFORGE: Transporter room, you should be able to get a lock now.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
PICARD (voiceover): Doctor Crusher, are you ready?
CRUSHER: Stand by. Alyssa, I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to leave now.
OGAWA: All right, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Transporter room. go ahead.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
OGAWA: What are you doing here?
SITO: I'm not supposed to let anyone but the senior officers inside Sickbay.
OGAWA: Do you have any idea what's going on?
SITO: No, do you?
OGAWA: I'd better go.
PICARD: Ensign.
SITO: Sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Twelve hundred hours. Alpha shift is relieved.
LAVELLE: Excuse me, sir. If you don't mind, I'd like to stay on for another shift. I could use the training.
RIKER: Now's not the best time.
LAVELLE: Yes, sir.

[Outside Sickbay]
PICARD: Ensign, you're with me.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. You are a certified pilot, Ensign?
SITO: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: How long have you served on board the Enterprise, Ensign?
SITO: Seven months, sir.
PICARD: I see I understand that you've been recommended for the Ops position. Do you think you're up to it?
SITO: I do, sir.
PICARD: I'm not so sure. I'm concerned about your record.
SITO: Sir?
PICARD: The incident that you were involved in at the Academy.
SITO: With all due respect that was three years ago. My record since then
PICARD: It doesn't matter how long ago it was, Ensign. Would you do something like that again?
SITO: I can assure you, sir, that I would never, never jeopardize lives by participating in
PICARD: A dare devil stunt? I would certainly hope not. What concerns me is that you participated in a cover-up that impeded an official investigation into the death of a cadet.
SITO: Sir, I know I should have told the truth right from the start
PICARD: Yes you should, but you didn't. Instead you joined with the others to pretended that was simply an accident. Now, what do you think that tells me about your character?
SITO: Sir, if you had any idea what it was like after that incident. I didn't have any friends. I didn't have anyone to talk to. I had to take my flight test with the instructor because no one else would be my partner. In a lot of ways it would have been easier to just walk away, but I didn't. I stuck with it. Doesn't that say something about my character, too?
PICARD: Well I'm really very sorry you didn't enjoy your time at the Academy, Ensign. As far as I'm concerned, you should have been expelled for what you did. Quite frankly, I don't know how you made it on board this ship. You're dismissed.

[Shuttlebay]
LAFORGE: Another two seconds. Okay, that's enough.
TAURIK: Sir, I'm a little puzzled. Why are we intentionally damaging the shuttlecraft?
LAFORGE: We're evaluating hull resiliency. Starfleet requires periodic testing.
TAURIK: I see. I don't believe I'm familiar with that requirement.
LAFORGE: Probably because you're not a senior officer.
TAURIK: If you wish, I could reconfigure the phaser to fire a low intensity burst that would not harm the shuttle's hull. The test procedure would not be affected.
LAFORGE: It's fine the way it is. Now, give me another burst, about four seconds, right here.
TAURIK: Do you want me to fire from this position?
LAFORGE: Actually, why don't you do it from over here.
TAURIK: That would be consistent.
LAFORGE: Consistent with what?
TAURIK: With making it appear that this shuttle had fled an attack.
LAFORGE: What makes you think that's what we're doing?
TAURIK: The pattern of fire you have asked for is similar to what might result if the shuttle had fled an attacker while engaging in evasive maneuvers.
LAFORGE: It's an amazing coincidence.
TAURIK: Yes, sir. It is indeed. Shall we proceed with the testing?
LAFORGE: Yes, Ensign. Thank you.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Alyssa, thank you for coming so quickly. We have to prepare for surgery. We have a comatose patient with a subdural hematoma.
OGAWA: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: I want to make it clear that you are not to discuss what you see here with anyone.
OGAWA: I understand.
CRUSHER: We'll need to synthesize at least a liter of Cardassian blood.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
BEN: It's your bet, Taurik. What I can't understand is why we're just sitting here so close to the Cardassian border.
LAVELLE: It must have something to do with that escape pod we picked up. Don't you think, Sito?
SITO: Maybe.
LAVELLE: I wonder who was in it?
BEN: You know what I heard? It was Ambassador Spock.
TAURIK: That is most unlikely.
BEN: That's what I was told.
TAURIK: By whom?
BEN: I can't say.
LAVELLE: They beamed whoever was in it right to Sickbay. Did you see anything when you went down there?
OGAWA: No. Doctor Crusher just asked me to help her with the laboratory schedule.
TAURIK: I thought Lieutenant Powell was going to join us tonight?
OGAWA: He had to do a double shift.
LAVELLE: That's too bad. He must be the worst poker player I've ever met.
BEN: It's your bet, Sam.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: Twenty.
CRUSHER: The thing is, I saw Powell in Ten Forward with another woman, and the way they were talking it made me wonder.
TROI: Well, if he's seeing someone else he should tell Alyssa. I mean, it might hurt her now, but it would be better in the long run.
RIKER: I've been meaning to talk to you about something, Mister Worf. I don't think Ensign Sito's prepared for the Ops position.
WORF: Well, I must say I disagree, sir.
LAFORGE: Counselor. Pair of fours bets.
RIKER: I'm listening.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
BEN: The bet is fifty.
TAURIK: It would be illogical for the Captain to deny you a promotion for something you did as a cadet.
SITO: He said it shows I don't have character.
OGAWA: What did you say?
SITO: What could I say? Maybe he's right.
LAVELLE: Hey, you're a damn fine officer and you deserve that post as much as anyone. One thing's for sure, I won't be getting it. Not if it's up to Riker.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: It is your decision, sir, but I am certain if you give Ensign Sito a chance to prove herself, she will not disappoint you.
RIKER: Very well, I'll take her under consideration. Besides, I'm not convinced about Lavelle.
TROI: Really? Why?
RIKER: He's too eager to please. He's always trying to ingratiate himself to me.
TROI: Why assume he's doing it that to get the job?
LAFORGE: Fifty.
RIKER: There's your fifty, and one hundred more.
TROI: I don't know. It seems to me that you and Lavelle are a lot alike.
RIKER: What? We're not at all alike.
LAFORGE: You're bluffing.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
LAVELLE: You think so?
BEN: Yes, and I'm not going to let you get away with it.
OGAWA: You know, Sam, maybe you shouldn't try so hard with Riker. It doesn't matter whether he likes you as long as he respects you.
SITO: He must, otherwise he would not be considering you for the Ops position.
LAVELLE: You're probably right. Maybe I'm just telling myself he hates me so that if I don't get promoted, I'll have an excuse.
BEN: You in or not?
TAURIK: At this juncture, the odds of my winning this hand are less than thirty nine to one. I fold.

[Riker's quarters]
LAFORGE: The Commander's flush is still working. No help, Worf. Tens and deuces for the Doctor. And Jacks and fours for the Counselor. Ah, three sixes.
WORF: Fold.
RIKER: Looks like it's just you and me. You going to go another fifty?
LAFORGE: I'm thinking. Give me a second, here.
TROI: Didn't you tell me that you took up poker so you could be the officer's game at the Potemkin?
RIKER: I happen to like poker.
TROI: But your senior officers might have thought you were trying to ingratiate yourself. I guess it's lucky that they realized you were young and inexperienced, and decided not to hold it against you.
RIKER: Maybe I have been a little hard on Lavelle.
WORF: I do not believe he is bluffing.
LAFORGE: I do. There you go. What've you got?
WORF: Flush.
LAFORGE: I can't believe this.
RIKER: I am your worst nightmare.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
BEN: I knew it.
LAVELLE: How could you tell I was bluffing?
BEN: You don't really expect me to answer that, do you?
SITO: Look, it's getting late. Maybe we should all get some sleep.
BEN: One more hand.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come on, Geordi. You don't have to quit just because I'm unbeatable?
LAFORGE: Nah, there's something I need to do down in Engineering. I'll get you next time.
RIKER: I'll be there.
LAFORGE: Goodnight, everybody.
CRUSHER: Goodnight.
TROI: Goodnight.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
SITO: Bye.
LAVELLE: Goodnight.
OGAWA: See you later.
TAURIK: What I find curious is that when Commander La Forge saw that the technique I was using was actually more efficient, he seemed annoyed.
BEN: Of course he was.
LAVELLE: He didn't like the fact that you knew something he didn't.
TAURIK: Do you think I have irreparably damaged my relationship with him?
LAVELLE: It depends on what kind of a guy he is.
BEN: Ante up, gentlemen.
LAVELLE: Come in.
LAVELLE: Commander.
LAFORGE: As you were. I just dropped by to see Taurik.
TAURIK: What can I do for you, sir?
LAFORGE: Well, I'm headed for Engineering to run those tests on the nacelles. Since you've already put in some work on the technique, I thought you might like to give me a hand.
TAURIK: I'd be pleased to, sir.
LAFORGE: Great. Let's go.
BEN: How about some blackjack?
LAVELLE: I've got to get some sleep so I can be sharp tomorrow.
BEN: Why? So you can get promoted, have more responsibility, and have to get to sleep even earlier?
LAVELLE: Goodnight.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in.
CRUSHER: Ben. What are you doing here?
BEN: I just cleaned out some junior officers and I thought I'd do the same here.
RIKER: You're welcome to give it a try.
TROI: Pull up a chair.
BEN: Thanks.

[Gymnasium]
WORF: Dismissed. Ensign Sito.
SITO: Yes, sir.
WORF: I also teach an advanced class. I believe you may be ready to participate. However, before you can join the group, you must pass the gik'tal.
SITO: Gik'tal?
WORF: Yes. It is a very ancient Klingon ritual. It tests your knowledge of the forms of the mok'bara.
SITO: I should practice first.
WORF: No. No practice. That is part of the ritual. The test must be unannounced.
WORF: Can you see?
SITO: No.
WORF: Good. The gik'tal has begun. Defend yourself.
WORF: You must anticipate my attack.
SITO: Yes, sir.
WORF: Defend yourself.
WORF: Are you listening, Ensign?
SITO: Yes, but
WORF: Defend yourself.
WORF: You did not anticipate.
SITO: How am I supposed to defend myself when I can't see a thing?
WORF: Stop making excuses. Replace the blindfold.
SITO: No. It's not a fair test.
WORF: Very good, Ensign. You have passed the challenge.
SITO: What? By taking off the blindfold?
WORF: It takes courage to say the test is unfair.
SITO: One thing I don't understand. Doesn't gik'tal mean to the death?
WORF: You speak Klingon.
SITO: Sir, is there really such a thing as a gik'tal challenge?
WORF: No, there is not. But perhaps next time you are judged unfairly, it will not take so many bruises for you protest.

[Ready room]
SITO: All I've ever wanted is to make a career for myself in Starfleet. I can't change what happened at the Academy. No one can. All I can do is work hard and try to earn the respect of the people I serve with. If you're not going to give me that chance, then I respectfully request that you transfer me to another ship.
PICARD: If you're looking for a more lenient commander, I don't think you'll find one.
SITO: Permission to speak freely, sir?
PICARD: Please do.
SITO: If you didn't want me on your ship you should have said so when I was assigned to it. It's not your place to punish me for what I did at the Academy. I've worked hard here. My record is exemplary. If you're going to judge me, judge me for what I am now.
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. I will. It took courage to come here and face me after what I said to you the other day. I didn't ask you here because I was assessing your qualifications for the Ops position.
SITO: I don't understand, sir.
PICARD: I was harsh with you because I wanted to assess you for a very important mission. A mission that could put you in a situation that would be far more unnerving than a dressing-down by your commanding officer.
SITO: Can I ask what that mission is, sir?
PICARD: Join the senior officers in the Observation lounge at oh nine hundred hours. We'll discuss it then.
SITO: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And, Ensign. I do know why you ended up on the Enterprise. I asked for you. I wanted to make sure that you got a fair chance to redeem yourself.
SITO: Thank you, sir.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes. Alyssa, I think you know how much I've come to depend upon you here. I've recommended your promotion because your performance here has been exemplary.
OGAWA: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate that.
CRUSHER: But more than that, I've come to think of you as a friend. Someone I really care about.
OGAWA: That's nice of you to say. I feel the same way.
CRUSHER: So, you and Andrew Powell?
OGAWA: Someone told you.
CRUSHER: Told me what?
OGAWA: We were going to keep it a secret until the promotions are announced.
CRUSHER: Secret?
OGAWA: He asked me to marry him.
CRUSHER: Alyssa, that's wonderful! I'm so relieved. I mean happy.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Please, take a seat, Ensign.
PICARD: This is Joret Dal. He was in the escape pod that we retrieved. He is a member of the Cardassian military, and a Federation operative. He has risked his life to bring us invaluable information about Cardassian strategic intentions. Information that could very well enhance the security of Bajor, as well as other planets in this sector. Now, it is absolutely imperative that we return him safely back to Cardassian space.
JORET: It will not be easy. The border is heavily guarded.
RIKER: As his ship was destroyed, he'll be using one of our shuttles.
JORET: If a patrol stops me, I will claim to have stolen it.
WORF: We have distressed the shuttle so that it appears to have been fired upon.
RIKER: Joret will attempt to talk his way past the patrol.
JORET: If I were alone, the chances of my succeeding would be slim. But if I had a prisoner with me, a Bajoran terrorist, I would appear to be a bounty hunter. Border crossings of that nature are not uncommon, and for a price the patrol can be convinced to look the other way.
PICARD: Once the shuttle is safely past the patrol, Joret will put you into an escape pod and return you back across the border.
RIKER: Since the pod is so small, it will be difficult to detect.
PICARD: We'll be waiting here to pick you up.
SITO: I understand, sir.
PICARD: Ensign, this is obviously a very dangerous mission. I'm not ordering you to take part in it.
SITO: Then I volunteer, sir.
WORF: Be certain you understand the risk you are taking. If you are captured
SITO: I'm Bajoran. No one knows better than I do what Cardassians do to their prisoners. I've made my decision.
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. Will you report to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher will explain. And Ensign Sito, I must ask you not to discuss this mission with anyone.
SITO: Yes, sir.
JORET: I didn't realize she would be so young.

[Shuttlebay]
SITO: The Captain asked Doctor Crusher to make it look like Joret had mistreated me.
LAFORGE: We're all set here.
SITO: Sir. I want you to know that I really appreciate the fact that you've always had confidence in me.
WORF: Good luck.
SITO: I'll see you soon.

[Shuttlecraft]
JORET: We are approaching the border. It won't be long before we're detected by the patrol ships.
SITO: When they stop us, do you want me to say anything?
JORET: No. It should seem that I've broken your will. If you're asked any questions, look at me as though you're afraid to answer.
SITO: Can I ask you something? Why are you doing this, risking your life to help Starfleet?
JORET: I don't consider myself a traitor, if that's what you're asking. All my life I've served in the military. Once it was an institution dedicated to the security of Cardassia, now it's little more than a platform for ambitious Guls hoping to make their reputations in battle. If the information I provided helps Starfleet deter even one pointless skirmish, I've served my purpose. I'm sick of war. My people need peace.
SITO: I never thought I'd hear a Cardassian say something like that.
JORET: And I never thought a Bajoran would risk her life to help a Cardassian get home.
SITO: Patrol ships moving in on our position.
JORET: We don't have much time.

[Ten Forward]
LAVELLE: She must have left on that shuttle. There's no other explanation.
BEN: Do you have any idea where it went?
LAVELLE: Toward Cardassian space. That's what I'm worried about. Oh, there's one other thing, I noticed the shuttle was damaged.
OGAWA: Sam, can we talk about something else?
LAVELLE: Well don't you care what's happened to her?
OGAWA: Of course.
TAURIK: But we have to accept the fact that we're not always told about everything that happens aboard ship.
LAVELLE: Well, we can at least tell each other what we know. Do you two know something?
OGAWA: Sam, please.
LAVELLE: I can't believe this. We're friends.
TAURIK: We're also Starfleet Officers.
OGAWA: I'm not allowed to talk about it.
LAVELLE: Okay. I understand. I'd better get going. I've got duty in half an hour.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47566.7. We have reached the coordinates in Federation space where Ensign Sito's escape pod was to have rendezvoused with us. However, we have been waiting for over thirty hours and as yet there is no sign of her.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report.
LAVELLE: We completed a long range scan of the area, sir. The escape pod doesn't seem to be out there.
DATA: It is possible that at this distance we are unable to distinguish the pod from the inorganic matter normally present in space.
RIKER: Try narrowing the scan field. See if you can pick up any biosigns.
LAVELLE: Sir, it would help if I knew what kind of life signs to look for.
RIKER: You're scanning for Bajoran lifesigns.
LAVELLE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Nothing yet. The pod is thirty two hours overdue.
WORF: Sir, I recommend we launch a probe to increase the range of our sensor sweeps.
RIKER: Launching a probe into Cardassian space would be a treaty violation.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a probe and launch when ready.
WORF: Aye, sir. Probe launched, sir.
DATA: Sir, I am detecting signs of debris two hundred thousand kilometers inside Cardassian space. Its mass and composition indicate it could be the remains of a Federation escape pod.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have intercepted a Cardassian report stating that a Bajoran prisoner escaped her captor and was killed in an evacuation pod as she tried to leave Cardassian space.

[Ready room]
PICARD: To all Starfleet personnel, this is the Captain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew, Ensign Sito Jaxa

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Has been lost

[Sickbay]
PICARD (voiceover): In the line of duty. She was the finest example of a Starfleet

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Officer, and a young woman of remarkable courage

[Ready room]
PICARD: And strength of character. Her loss will be deeply felt by all who knew her. Picard out.

[Ten Forward]
BEN: You okay?
LAVELLE: I just got promoted.
OGAWA: Congratulations.
LAVELLE: Thanks. It just don't feel right. For all I know, she was going to get the promotion instead of me.
BEN: You shouldn't feel that way, Sam.
OGAWA: She would have been happy for you, Sam.
TAURIK: The best way to remember her would be to excel in your new position.
OGAWA: We're proud of you, Sam.
BEN: Excuse me, sir, but I need to move this table.
WORF: What?
BEN: There's an empty seat over there.
WORF: I appreciate what you are trying to do, but it is not appropriate. You were her friends. I was only her commanding officer.
BEN: Sir, I happen to know that she considered you a friend.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Send a message to Commander Data and inform him of our delay.
RAINER: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Deanna, welcome back.
TROI: Thank you. I was just reporting in. I didn't expect to find anyone up except Data.
CRUSHER: Data's away on assignment. A Federation deep space probe went off course and crashed on Barkon Four. Some of the material in the casing was radioactive, so Data was sent to recover it before it could contaminate the biosphere.
TROI: Isn't Barkon Four inhabited?
CRUSHER: Yes, it's a pre-industrial society, but the probe crashed over a hundred kilometers from the nearest settlement so Data shouldn't have any contact with the Barkonians. So, how was the reunion?
TROI: Fine. It was good to see some old friends. I'd lost touch with most of them. It's interesting to see the different paths some of their lives have taken. Beverly, you don't usually stand a watch on the Bridge even when Data's not here.
CRUSHER: I volunteered tonight. I like to put in a little Bridge time now and then, stay on top of operations, tactical procedures. The truth is, I like it. It's not every doctor who gets to command a starship, even if it is the night shift.
TROI: May I ask you a personal question? Why did you decide to become a Commander? I mean, you didn't need the rank in order to be Chief Medical Officer, so why put yourself through all the extra work?
CRUSHER: Oh, I don't know. I never even thought about my rank for a long time. It seemed pretty trivial compared to being a doctor. But then, about eight years ago, I started to feel like I wanted to stretch myself a little.
RAINER: Commander, there's no response from Commander Data to our signal.
CRUSHER: Continue sending him updates on our schedule.
RAINER: Aye, sir.
TROI: Is something wrong?
CRUSHER: No. I wanted to let Data know there'd be a delay in picking him up for a few of days. We have orders to rendezvous with the Lexington and take some medical supplies to the Taranko Colony.
TROI: But he's not responding.
CRUSHER: Geordi said that the radiation from the probe might interfere with communications. I just thought I'd try anyway.

[Town square]
GARVIN: So when you return from school tonight, I'll be meeting with the village elders.
GIA: Again?
GARVIN: Gia.
GIA: I know, I know. You're the town magistrate and you have a lot of work to do, but it always seems like you're always in some meeting or
GARVIN: Gia, go home. Now. Who are you? What do you want?
DATA: Who are you? What do you want?
GARVIN: What's wrong with you?
DATA: What's wrong with you?
GARVIN: There's nothing wrong with me. Who are you? What is your name? Can you understand me? My name is Garvin.
DATA: My name is Garvin?
GARVIN: I thought I told you to go home.
GIA: I know.
DATA: I do not know my name.
GARVIN: What?
DATA: You asked if I knew my name. I do not.
GARVIN: Well at least you seem to be understanding a little more.
DATA: Yes. It is becoming easier.
GIA: Ask him where he's from, father.
GARVIN: Gia, go on to school. I'll deal with the stranger.
GIA: Yes, Father. Goodbye.
DATA: Goodbye.
GARVIN: Your eyes and skin look so strange. Your clothes, you look like you've been in some kind of accident.
DATA: I do not remember being in an accident.
GARVIN: What do you remember?
DATA: I walked here from the mountains.
GARVIN: The mountains? The mountains are over two hundred seltons from here.
DATA: I have a clear memory of my journey.
GARVIN: What do you remember before that?
DATA: I have no prior memory.
GARVIN: Do you know what that is?
DATA: No.
GARVIN: May I? May I have it?
DATA: Yes.
GARVIN: There might be something in here that can tell us who you are.
GARVIN: I wonder what these markings mean.
DATA: Radioactive.
GARVIN: What?
DATA: That is what is written on the container.
GARVIN: You can read this language?
DATA: Evidently.
GARVIN: Radioactive. What does that mean?
DATA: I do not know. Perhaps it is my name.
GARVIN: I've never heard a name like that. You must come from a very distant place.

[Riker's quarters]
TROI: Is that supposed to be a question?
TROI: Because if you're asking me if I liked what you were playing, then the answer is yes.
TROI: You know, this is a much better way of communicating for you. It's far less confusing than the way you normally speak.
RIKER: I knew I could count on my Imzadi, the ship's Counselor to boost my self-image.
TROI: I'm glad to be of service.
RIKER: Did you come here for something in particular, or just general Riker bashing?
TROI: Actually I wanted to ask your opinion about something. I've been thinking about taking the Bridge Officer's test and becoming a full Commander.
RIKER: What brought this up?
TROI: A lot of things. Working on the personnel review last month, talking with Beverly about her experiences, going to my class reunion.
RIKER: Ah, the class reunion. You saw a few old friends who had already taken the test?
TROI: All right, I admit it was a catalyst. But I can honestly say that I've been thinking about this off and on over the past two years.
RIKER: Why the past two years?
TROI: Do you remember when the Enterprise hit that quantum filament and I was in command on the Bridge?
RIKER: I do.
TROI: Well, when that happened, I was overwhelmed. But when it was over I realized that a part of me missed it. Not the actual disaster, but the experience of being in command. I felt like I was exploring a whole new side of myself. Not that I want to give up counseling by any means, but I really would like to stretch myself a little.
RIKER: Deanna, if you take the Bridge Officer's test, you'll have my complete support. But as First Officer, I'll be the one judging your performance, and you should know I am a pretty tough judge.
TROI: And I'm a pretty good student.
RIKER: We'll start tomorrow morning, oh eight hundred hours.

[Garvin's home]
TALUR: Remarkable set of teeth. Breath smells like, well, it doesn't have any smell actually. You can close your mouth. Let's see. Heartbeat sounds a little odd, but seems very regular. Skin feels clammy, but you say you feel fine?
DATA: That is correct.
TALUR: No headaches, palpitations, sluggishness, indigestion?
DATA: No. But I cannot have indigestion since I have not eaten.
TALUR: Ah. Malnutrition. You should try to eat something that will build strength and return your vitality. Lots of meat, butter, cheese, that should be a start.
GARVIN: What about his eyes and his skin? They're so odd.
TALUR: Quite so, quite so. I'm sure my grandmother would have called our friend here a demon or spirit or some kind of monster. But current scientific methodology allows us to dismiss such ridiculous superstitions and concentrate on scientific reality.
DATA: Then what do you believe I am?
TALUR: You are an ice man.
DATA: Ice man?
TALUR: Yes. You probably come from a race of people who lived in the snow and ice of the Vellorian mountains. Your skin and eye coloration are a result of prolonged exposure to harsh winter conditions.
DATA: Then I am not ill?
TALUR: Aside from your memory loss, you do not seem to have any symptoms of any illness that I am familiar with. No. You are an ice man. Now, get something to eat and a good night's rest, and I will come back tomorrow to see if your memory has begun to return.
DATA: Thank you.
TALUR: Hello, Gia.
GIA: Hello.
GIA: What did Talur say about him? Is he sick?
GARVIN: Not exactly. She said he's lost his memory, but seems to be fine otherwise. Talur thinks he's from a race that lives in the mountains.
DATA: I am an ice man.
GARVIN: We'll have to call you something besides Ice man until your memory returns. What was the word on the container?
DATA: Radioactive.
GARVIN: Mister Radioactive?
GIA: I don't like that name. Let's call him Jayden.
GARVIN: What do you think of that?
DATA: Jayden. That is acceptable.
GARVIN: Right now, we need to clean him up and get him something decent to wear. Run upstairs and get some of my old clothes for him.
GIA: Yes, Father.
GARVIN: I wonder if Skoran can tell us something about this metal of yours.

[Town square]
SKORAN: You, Ice man, where'd you find this?
DATA: I do not know.
GARVIN: I told you, he's lost his memory and we're calling him Jayden for now.
SKORAN: Jayden, huh? The metal is slightly warm.
GARVIN: All the fragments are like that.
SKORAN: It's obviously been tempered and milled. The lustrous quality of the metal is so pure. This wasn't made in any forge I've ever seen. Will you sell them?
GARVIN: You want them?
SKORAN: The metal's malleable enough to make some jewellry.
GARVIN: They belong to Jayden. Do you want to sell them? You're going to need money.
DATA: You may be right. But I do not wish to sell all the fragments. They may provide a clue to my identity.
SKORAN: I'll give you twenty doraks for half the lot.
GARVIN: Agreed.
APPRENTICE: My leg! My leg! Get it off! Get it off!
SKORAN: We need a lever.
GARVIN: It'll be all right. Don't struggle. It will only
GARVIN: Jayden, put it down.
DATA: I believe the support structure on the anvil collapsed because some of the wood had rotted. Did I do something wrong, Garvin?
GARVIN: No, just unexpected.

[Garvin's home]
TALUR: It's perfectly understandable. Your people probably all have great strength. It will allow them to fight off the ferocious creatures that live in the Vellorian Mountains.
DATA: You have told me no one from the village has ever been to the Vellorian Mountains. How can you be certain there are ferocious creatures there?
TALUR: It's a well known fact.
DATA: But no one has actually seen one?
TALUR: Well, not to my knowledge, but
GIA: Father, are you all right?
GARVIN: I've been tired since this afternoon. I'm sure it's nothing.
TALUR: You feel slightly warm. Some fresh air and a brisk walk will do you good.
GARVIN: That sounds like a good idea. I'll be back soon.
GIA: You didn't like it?
DATA: I neither liked it nor disliked it. I simply had no appetite.
GIA: Father's cooking isn't as good as mother's. He tries, though.
DATA: Where is your mother?
GIA: She died about a year ago. Father says she went to a beautiful place where everything is peaceful and everyone loves each other, and no one ever gets sick. Do you think there's really a place like that?
DATA: Yes. I do.

[Holodeck - Engineering]
LAFORGE: We just lost contact with everything above deck twenty one, including the Bridge.
WORF: There is something wrong with one of the antimatter containment units. The magnetic field is starting to fluctuate.
TROI: Switch to auxiliary control.
WORF: Auxiliary control is not online. We are starting to lose containment on antimatter storage unit three.
TROI: All right. Switch the EM power inverter to the lateral. No, wait. Use the neodyne relay.
LAFORGE: Commander, the neodyne relay isn't holding. Containment failure in ten seconds.
TROI: Computer, emergency procedure. Eject antimatter storage unit three. Authorisation, Troi omega omega three one.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. All power to ejection systems has been terminated and cannot be restored.
LAFORGE: Commander, the unit's beginning to o
RIKER: Congratulations. You just destroyed the Enterprise.
TROI: Thank you for the encouragement.
RIKER: Don't feel bad. You passed everything else. Diplomatic law, first contact procedures, Bridge operations. The Engineering qualification's one of the toughest parts of the test.
TROI: So what did I do wrong?
RIKER: I'm afraid I can't tell you that.
TROI: Why not? What kind of a test is this?
RIKER: It's the kind of a test that you'll have to take again if you want to be a Bridge Officer. Only next time, the problem won't be so easy, so I suggest you study up on your emergency procedures.
TROI: Well how do I know what to study if you won't tell me what I did wrong?
RIKER: I don't know. I'm afraid I can't tell you that either.

[Town square school]
TALUR: Rock, fire, sky, and water are the basic elements of the universe. They can be found in every object, every person, every animal, everything. The rock in this wood can be felt by its weight and by its hardness. If we expose the wood to flame, we can encourage the fire within the wood to show itself. We can also see smoke, which is a part of the sky. The water in wood is difficult to see. Sometimes the elements are buried deep within the objects, but the four elements are always there. Yes, Jayden?
DATA: I do not believe that is correct.
TALUR: Oh?
DATA: I believe you are reasoning by analogy, classifying objects and phenomena according to superficial observation rather than empirical evidence. Wood, for example, does not contain fire simply because it is combustible, nor does it contain rock simply because it is heavy. Wood, like any complex organic form, is composed of thousands of different chemical compounds, none of which is fire.
TALUR: That will be enough for now, Jayden. As I told you earlier, our friend Jayden here has lost much of his memory, so I wouldn't put too much faith in any of his ideas. Now that will be all for today. I will see you tomorrow. Be sure to practice your spelling and arithmetic tonight.
GIA: Are you all right?
DATA: Yes. But I do not agree with Talur's assessment. Although I do have gaps in my memory, I know that fire is not an element.
GARVIN: That is not what you promised me!
SKORAN: You're getting old, Garvin. I offered you fifteen for the metal and I've given it to you. No more.
GARVIN: We agreed on twenty.
DATA: Garvin is correct. You agreed on twenty.
SKORAN: Stay out of this, Ice man. Your memory is not very reliable.
GIA: Father! Father, what's wrong?
GARVIN: I don't know I feel very weak suddenly.
GIA: You have got a fever. We should get him home.

[Garvin's home]
GIA: What's wrong with him?
TALUR: I suspect he I don't know. I've never encountered anything like this before. These lesions look like burn marks. The fluids of his body have overheated. That would explain the fever and the burning skin. Keep him cool, let plenty of fresh air into the house, and I want you to give him these herbs. That will bring his fluidic temperature down and allow this to pass.
GIA: I understand.
DATA: With an increased focal length and an achromatic objective lens, this instrument will have a higher effective magnification.
TALUR: I will come back tomorrow and check on you.
GARVIN: Thank you.
DATA: Garvin, with your permission, I would like to begin my own investigation regarding the cause of your illness.
GARVIN: Go ahead.
DATA: Gia, I would like you to accompany me to the village. I will need some supplies.

[Town square]
GIA: What are you going to do with all this?
DATA: I will use these materials to make the laboratory equipment I need to research your father's illness.
GIA: Do you think you can help him?
DATA: I do not know. First I must isolate the cause of the illness.
SKORAN: There he is! It's his fault! None of us were sick before he came to the village!
CROWD: True.
DATA: Am I to understand that Garvin's illness has spread?
SKORAN: That's right. And you're the cause.
GIA: That's not true!
DATA: Gia, I think we should leave.
SKORAN: That's it. Leave. Get out of here. Go back where you came from!

[Garvin's home]
TALUR: Jayden what are you doing?
DATA: I am studying skin samples from Gia and Garvin in an attempt to isolate the cause of the illness.
TALUR: Gia?
DATA: Yes. She is also beginning to show signs of the illness.
TALUR: What is that?
DATA: It is a magnifying device based on your hand-held instrument. I have refined the design to increase the magnification level.
TALUR: May I?
DATA: Of course.
TALUR: How strong is the magnification?
DATA: Objects appear approximately five hundred times their normal size. As you can see, the cellular damage is quite extensive. However, based on interstitial transparency and membrane integrity, I do not believe it is an infection or any other form of communicable disease.
TALUR: I see.
DATA: At the moment, I am looking for a common event or experience that Gia, Garvin and Skoran might have shared that could have a causal relationship to their illness.
TALUR: Well they've all lived here in the village for many years. I'm sure they have many common experiences.
DATA: Yes, but since the illness struck all three in a relatively short period of time, it is reasonable to assume the experience is recent and unusual.
TALUR: Actually, Jayden, encountering you has been the most unusual experience that they've all shared recently.
DATA: I am aware of that. Excuse me. I am also open to the possibility that I may in some way be the causal factor. However, since you have had a great deal of contact with me and you show no signs of the sickness, I tend to discount myself as a likely candidate.
TALUR: Still, it has to be more than just a coincidence that shortly after you arrived, people started to become ill.
DATA: I agree.
GIA: Jayden I tried to give father his broth, but he won't eat.
TALUR: You have a fever. You should be in bed.
GIA: No, I'm all right. Father needs me.
DATA: Talur is correct. You should rest. I will attend to your father. Gia, when did you begin wearing that pendant?
GIA: Two days ago. Father bought it from Skoran. Why?
DATA: May I see it? This is one of the metal fragments I sold to Skoran.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: The secondary plasma vent has a triple redundant bypass. Which means that the primary access junction is routed through
TROI: Come in. Would be routed through the port transducer matrix. Come to give me more encouragement?
RIKER: No. I'm actually here to tell you that I've decided to cancel the rest of your test.
TROI: What?
RIKER: I'm canceling the test.
TROI: May I ask why?
RIKER: You've taken the Engineering qualification three times. You're no closer to passing.
TROI: Well, then I'll take it four times, or fourteen times, or however many times are necessary for me to get it right.
RIKER: Deanna, this is nothing personal. Not everyone is cut out to be a Bridge Officer. I don't think this is for you.
TROI: Why? Because I'm not the most technically-minded person on the ship? I may have trouble telling the difference between a plasma conduit and a phase inducer, but there's more to being a bridge officer than memorizing technical manuals.
RIKER: That's right, there is. You could spend the next month memorizing all the technical manuals in the computer, I still don't think you'd pass the test.
TROI: Tell me one thing. Is there a solution? Or is this simply a test of my ability to handle a no-win situation?
RIKER: There is a solution.
TROI: Then give me time to find it.
RIKER: I can't. As much as I care about you, my first duty is to the ship. I cannot let any Bridge Officer serve who's not qualified. I'm sorry.
TROI: My first duty is to the ship. The ship!

[Holodeck - Engineering]
TROI: Computer, load Bridge Officer's test, Engineering qualification section one.
COMPUTER: Computer ready.
TROI: Run program.
WORF: The control system for the primary containment field is not functioning.
LAFORGE: Something's severed the ODN conduit between here and the antimatter storage deck.
TROI: Geordi, could you repair the ODN conduit if you went into the crawlspace?
WORF: Sir, that crawlway is in a warp-plasma shaft. He would never survive the radiation.
TROI: I know that. Geordi, could you repair the conduit?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I think I could.
TROI: Then do it. That's an order.
RIKER: End simulation. Something told me you wouldn't let this go. Congratulations. You passed.
TROI: That's what this was all about, wasn't it? To see if I'd order someone to their death.
RIKER: That's right.
TROI: I knew that was part of being in command and I thought I'd prepared for it, but when the moment came I hesitated. Maybe you were right. Maybe I'm not cut out for this.
RIKER: You did exactly what you had to do. You considered all your options, you tried every alternative, and then you made the hard choice. Come on, let's get out of here, Commander.

[Garvin's home]
DATA: I have coated this piece of cloth with the liquid which is used in lamps. As you can see, the cloth becomes luminescent when it is exposed to an energy source. This pendant also appears to be an energy source.
TALUR: But where is this pattern of light coming from?
DATA: I believe a stream of particles is emanating from the metallic pendant and hitting the cloth.
TALUR: I don't see any particles coming from the pendant.
DATA: You will see there are. I can even block them.
DATA: It would appear that this container was constructed of a material which absorbs or blocks the particles coming from the metal.
TALUR: It's a trick.
DATA: No. It is empirical data. I believe the fragments were originally placed in this container to protect people from accidental exposure. The word radioactive may be a warning about the dangerous nature of the metal.
TALUR: All right. Let's say for the moment that you're right, that there are invisible particles coming from the metal. What should we do?
DATA: I will continue my experiment. I would like you to gather all the pieces of metal in the village and place them in this container.
TALUR: All right. But when I return, I want a more thorough explanation of all this. And I want to examine your data, in detail.
DATA: Of course.
SKORAN: There you are. You're the cause of this, Ice man.
DATA: If you are referring to the illness, you are partially correct. However, it is more complex than that. The metal fragment which
SKORAN: What, what are you?
DATA: I do not know.
SKORAN: I saw it with my own eyes. He's not a person. He's some kind of creature.
GIA: It's not true, Father.
SKORAN: We must find him and stop him before he kills us all.
GARVIN: I don't. Not Jayden. He wouldn't try to hurt us.
SKORAN: Come on.
TALUR: Let him rest for now. You should rest as well. Exerting yourself will only make you sicker. I'll be back.
DATA: Gia.
GIA: Jayden? Everyone's looking for you. Skoran said you're some kind of creature.
DATA: I do not know what I am. But I am not like you.
GIA: I know. You're an Ice man. We talked about that.
DATA: No. I am not.
GIA: Jayden, why are you wearing that hood?
DATA: I do not wish to frighten you.
GIA: I won't be afraid. Take it off. Please, I have to see.
DATA: I understand your reaction. But I do not wish to harm you. You or Garvin or anyone else. I only wish to help, to find a cure for the illness. I was very close. I must to continue my work, but it will take time. How long until Skoran and the others return?
GIA: I don't know. They're looking for you now.
DATA: Then I must hurry.
DATA: Gia, I believe I have found the answer.
GIA: You think you found a cure?
DATA: I believe so. I tested this medicine on skin samples from your father. They showed improvement, so I administered this to him. He is now recovering.
GIA: What kind of medicine is it?
DATA: A compound I made which will neutralize the particles that are making you ill. Swallow this. I must administer this to everyone in the village, but I do not think they will trust me after what happened to Skoran.
GIA: I could tell them.
DATA: I am afraid they will not believe you either. Gia, is the well in the town square the only source of water for this village?
GIA: Well?
DATA: This is very important. Are there any other sources of fresh water near the village?
GIA: No. The nearest river is two days away.
DATA: Then I will put this compound into the well water. It may be diluted, but it should still have enough potency to work.
GIA: Compound

[Town square]
SKORAN: There he is! You see? It's just as I said.
DATA: I only wish to help.
SKORAN: This is how you've helped us, by bringing this plague? Tried to kill us all? Well, you won't succeed. I won't let you!

[Town square]
CRUSHER: Excuse me. We're looking for a friend of ours. He might have wandered into your village a few days ago.
RIKER: You'd remember him. He would have appeared very strange. Pale skin, gold eyes.
GIA: He was your friend?
CRUSHER: Yes. Do you know him?
RIKER: Where is he?
CRUSHER: I don't understand.
GIA: We didn't know his real name, so we called him Jayden.
RIKER: You're saying he's dead?
GIA: They killed him because they were afraid of him, but he saved all of us from the sickness.
CRUSHER: The sickness?
GIA: There were these pieces of metal. They made everyone sick. But Jayden put something in the water and now everyone's better.
RIKER: What happened to these pieces of metal?
GIA: We buried them in the forest. What was his real name?
RIKER: Data.
GIA: Data. He was my friend, too.
CRUSHER: It's Data all right. He's buried about two meters down. He's been deactivated so I can't tell how bad the damage is.
RIKER: We could beam him and the probe fragments right onto the ship. No one would know.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Positronic net online. Subprocessor relays in place and neuroelectrical systems enabled.
CRUSHER: Data, are you all right?
DATA: I do not know. I am surprised to find myself here. I thought I was on Barkon Four.
PICARD: What's the last thing you remember?
DATA: I had located the crashed Federation probe and collected the radioactive fragments. I was attempting to download the sensor logs from the probe's onboard computer. There was a power surge. I believe the surge overloaded my positronic matrix. After that, I have no memory until this moment. It appears I had an interesting time.
RIKER: We don't know much about what happened either. Apparently you saved an entire village from radiation poisoning.
CRUSHER: And you were a very special friend to a little girl.
TROI: Well, if you'll excuse me, I have the Bridge this watch.
DATA: Counselor, have you been promoted in my absence?
TROI: That's right. Which means from now on you can call me sir.
DATA: Yes, sir.

[Classroom]
TROI: That's very good. Well, that's very nice.
ERIC: No, it isn't. I just can't get it right. Do you think the wings are too big?
TROI: Not at all. Birds have wings of all sizes, Eric. And you shouldn't worry about making it look perfect.
ERIC: But Mrs Narsu said we should try to make our sculptures as realistic as possible.
TROI: She's right. It is important that you be able to make the clay take the shape you want it to have, but you're not supposed to be concentrating on technique today. I'm here to help you focus on the feelings you want to convey with your sculpture. For instance, what do you think about when you see a bird?
ERIC: Flying?
TROI: Fine. So, make your sculpture make me think of flying, too.
TROI: How's it going, Data?
DATA: I have finished.
DATA: The dimensions are accurate to within one point three percent.
TROI: I'm sure they are. Data, you obviously don't have a trouble with realism, but you're here to work on your imagination. Maybe you should try something a little more abstract. Here. I want you to start a new piece. I'd like you to sculpt music.
DATA: Counselor, music is a collection of acoustic vibrations. How can I reproduce a sound with clay?
TROI: Well, think of the effects that sounds have on people, the images that music brings to your mind, and then give it a form.
TROI: It's a start.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Data. Please report to the Bridge.
DATA: Acknowledged, sir. On my way.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47615.2. We have encountered a rogue comet in sector one one five six. It is not native to this region of space, and there is no previous record of this object on any Federation charts.

[Bridge]
DATA: Based on its present trajectory, the comet appears to have originated in the D'Arsay system.
RIKER: That's over two sectors away.
DATA: That is correct, sir. This object has been en route for eighty seven million years.
RIKER: That's a long time alone in the dark.
PICARD: Begin a full sensor analysis, Mister Data, and log the findings with the Federation Astrophysical Survey.
DATA: Aye, sir. The comet's outer shell is composed primarily of gaseous hydrogen and helium surrounding an icy mantle. The inner core consists of heavier elements
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: There is distortion within the comet's inner core. I believed we experienced an intense sensor echo.
RIKER: Can you correct for it?
DATA: I am attempting to do so now, sir. I have compensated for the effect. Sensors are reconfigured for a low intensity sweep. We are still picking up some interference, but the distortion is manageable. At these settings, the scan will be complete in thirty nine hours.

[Troi's quarters]
CRUSHER: Worf says he's going to teach us some mok'bara throwing techniques today.
TROI: More like falling techniques. Last time we did that I was sore for a week.
CRUSHER: What's this?
TROI: I have no idea. I've never seen it before.
CRUSHER: Maybe Will left it for you. A little present?
TROI: It's not quite his style.
CRUSHER: Then maybe it's a secret admirer.
TROI: That's an interesting thought
CRUSHER: Well, you'll figure it out later. Come on, we're going to be late.

[Classroom]
TROI: That's nice. Data, this is amazing. How did you come up with this?
DATA: I followed your advice, Counselor. I used my imagination.
TROI: That's an understatement.
DATA: For some reason, as I was shaping the clay, the image of the mask was exceptionally clear in my mind. The design seemed to flow quite naturally.
TROI: Data, have you been in my quarters?
DATA: No, Counselor.
TROI: Somebody left an object in my room. Some kind of artifact, and it has something very similar to this. And you don't know anything about it?
DATA: I do not.
ERIC: Excuse me, Counselor. Can you help me with my terminal? It's not working right.
DATA: Perhaps we should investigate this matter further.

[Engineering]
RIKER: These symbols don't match anything in the Federation linguistic banks.
LAFORGE: Some kind of alien information has been downloaded into our computer core. I don't know how it's working, but it's reconfiguring our systems.
RIKER: How did it get in?
LAFORGE: I was able to trace its path from the replicators to the sensor array.
RIKER: The sensors? They've been scanning that comet for the past eighteen hours.
LAFORGE: Those energy readings from the comet's core, that sensor echo. We still don't know what's inside that thing.
RIKER: Maybe it's about time we found out. Could we use the phasers to melt down the shell of the comet?
LAFORGE: Yeah, a dispersed wide-field beam might do the trick. It wouldn't take long to come up with the firing parameters. What do you think, Data?
LAFORGE: Data? What's wrong?
DATA: I believe I recognize these symbols.
RIKER: How?
DATA: I do not know.
LAFORGE: Do you think maybe your systems have been affected?
DATA: It is a possibility. I do not believe my systems are currently impaired, but I will run a full diagnostic to make certain.
RIKER: What do you think they mean?
DATA: Boundary. Border. Road. Companion. Message. Messenger.
LAFORGE: What's that one?
DATA: Death.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, phasers are set for wide dispersal, ten percent maximum power. The beam will automatically terminate once the comet's core is reached.
PICARD: Very well, Mister Worf. Fire.
WORF: Phasers have terminated.
PICARD: Mister Data, what are we looking at? Is it a ship?
DATA: I do not know, sir. The object is nearly solid. It is composed primarily of fortanium and several unknown materials. It is over eighty seven million years old.
RIKER: That's older than the comet itself. Could someone from the D'Arsay system have built it?
PICARD: There are no technologically advanced cultures in that system now. But perhaps eighty seven million years ago, there were.
RIKER: Why would they want to hide something like that inside a comet?
PICARD: Possibly it accumulated those frozen gasses over time as it traveled through space.
LAFORGE: In any case, it's definitely responsible for the system anomalies we've been experiencing. They're using our sensor beam as a carrier wave to transmit information into our computers and replicators.
PICARD: But the question remains, why? What is its purpose?
DATA: Captain, I believe this object is an informational archive.
PICARD: Why do you say that, Mister Data?
DATA: I do not know. However, I seem to have an intuitive understanding of its function.
LAFORGE: Data, the internal structure of that thing is pretty complex, and it's got a repetitive node configuration which might suggest a database of some kind, but it could be practically anything. I don't see how you could know for sure what it is.
PICARD: Data, do you believe that you're in communication with that object?
DATA: It is a possibility, sir. I recommend we run a level one diagnostic of my positronic net immediately to determine if that is the case.
PICARD: Very well. Mister LaForge, give him a hand.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Do you think it's just trying to make contact with us?
PICARD: Yes, it's possible. But if that is an archive from some ancient civilization, we should allow it to do so. But we must be careful. Mister Worf, will you keep an eye on the sensors. If the ship is in any danger, I want you to sever the connection immediately.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Yes, come in, Number One.
RIKER: We've confined the system corruption. It won't be spreading any further. But we still have alien symbols floating around on our computer. This is quite a collection you've assembled. I've seen these things all over the ship. They all look the same. Primitive and non-functional.
PICARD: Ceremonial, and deceptively primitive. Only an advanced technological society could have built that object out there. These artifacts played a ritualistic role in that society, I think.
RIKER: Do you think Data could be right? Could we have stumbled across some sort of alien library?
PICARD: Oh, yes, it's possible. And if so, this is a find of most enormous significance. That library seems designed to do so much more than simply store information. Who knows what we might learn from this?
RIKER: I keep seeing this design.
PICARD: Yes, this symbol seems to be of particular significance.
RIKER: What do you think it means?
PICARD: The concept of the four cardinal compass directions is quite common in many different cultures.
RIKER: The words that Data recognized in the computer, boundary, border, road, they were all arranged in this design.
PICARD: Well, perhaps the artifacts that all have this compass symbol belong to the same theme, movement. Finding a direction, traveling a path, crossing a boundary.
RIKER: And death? One of the symbols was death.
PICARD: The ultimate boundary.
PICARD: I've seen this symbol everywhere too, but much less prominently displayed. It's always in the background, smaller than the others.
RIKER: What do you think it represents?
PICARD: I have no idea.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lower synaptic functions are completely normal. Autonomous systems all check out.
DATA: I suggest we examine the memory subsystem next.
LAFORGE: All right. Data, what's wrong?
DATA: I am not certain. I am experiencing a curious sensation.
LAFORGE: Well, what is it?
DATA: An impulse.
LAFORGE: Impulse? What kind of impulse?
DATA: I do not know.
LAFORGE: I'm going to check out your higher functions.
DATA: Geordi, what does it feel like when a person is losing his mind?
LAFORGE: Data, come on, you're scaring me now. What's going on?
DATA: I do not know. I am different.
LAFORGE: Well, you're going to be all right. You're with me, okay?
DATA: Okay.
LAFORGE: Listen, I'm going to disconnect you. What's going on?
LAFORGE: Data.
DATA-IHAT: Masaka is waking.
LAFORGE: Captain
DATA-IHAT: Captain. I've been waiting for you. You should feel honored. I don't usually wait for anyone.
PICARD: What is it you want?
DATA-IHAT: Masaka is waking.
PICARD: Are you Masaka?
DATA-IHAT: I am not Masaka. I am Ihat.
PICARD: What have you done to Commander Data?
DATA-IHAT: Commander Data? You mean the one who was here?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA-IHAT: He's gone. Who can say where?
PICARD: Picard to Counselor Troi. Report to main Engineering immediately.
DATA-IHAT: Picard to Counselor Troi. Report to main Engineering immediately.
PICARD: Ihat, this place you come from, is it a cultural archive of your species?
DATA-IHAT: I come from Masaka's city.
PICARD: Are there others like you there?
DATA-IHAT: There are no others like me.
PICARD: Who is Masaka?
DATA-IHAT: You will find out.
PICARD: I would like to know Masaka, speak with her.
DATA-IHAT: Do you understand pain? Death? That is all you need to know of Masaka. It is what she is. Go. Leave this place before she finds you. It can be done. I did it.
DATA-IHAT: Masaka.
DATA-VICTIM: I am yours. Every part of me is yours.
PICARD: We should confine him to quarters.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: This is a micrograph of what's happened to Data's positronic net. Now, as near as I can tell, these are behavioral nodes. I've counted fourteen so far. I think the archive is using Data to create different people within its culture much in the same way it used our replicators to create artifacts.
TROI: As a result, Data's real personality has been completely buried. In a sense, Data has the android equivalent of multiple personalities.
LAFORGE: The archive hasn't stopped yet. Data's positronic net is still being transformed. There's no telling how many more personalities might emerge.
PICARD: Geordi, I want you to continue to scan the archive. See if you can find some way to access it. And in the meantime, I'll see what I can learn from these people inside Data.

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: I'm not going to hurt you.
DATA-VICTIM: Only Masaka can hurt me. I am for her alone.
PICARD: I need to speak with Ihat. Do you understand? Ihat.
DATA-IHAT: Captain. That was a cruel joke you played on me. For a moment, a brief moment, I actually thought that woman was Masaka.
PICARD: Whoever took your place wasn't afraid of Masaka. He seemed eager for his fate.
DATA-IHAT: Pitiful, isn't it. You won't catch me humiliating myself for a woman even if she were a queen.
PICARD: Then Masaka is your queen?
DATA-IHAT: She's a lazy creature. She spends most of her time sleeping. The problem is, what she does when she's awake.
PICARD: Then should we try to keep her asleep?
DATA-IHAT: Try to stop the sun from climbing the sky? Only Korgano can do that, and he's not here.
PICARD: Where is he?
DATA-BOY: Help me. Please.
PICARD: What's wrong?
DATA-BOY: I'm afraid.
PICARD: Of what?
DATA-BOY: Of her.
PICARD: Masaka?
DATA-BOY: Her!
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD (voiceover): Report.
RIKER: The archive just activated some kind of tractor beam, sir. We're not able to disengage it.

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Has there been any damage to the ship?

[Bridge]
RIKER: There was an emergency reported in Ten Forward. Mister Worf's on his way.
LAFORGE: Captain, there's some kind of energy pulse coming through the tractor beam.

[Data's quarters]
LAFORGE (voiceover): It's overriding our control systems.
PICARD: I'll be right there.
DATA-BOY: Don't leave me.
PICARD: I won't leave you. Please, let go of me.
DATA-BOY: Does it hurt?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA-BOY: She's going to hurt us all.
DATA-IHAT: Now you've done it, Captain. Masaka is awake.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Who's this?
PICARD: I'd say that that is Masaka. Ihat referred to her as a queen, and it's not unusual in ceremonial cultures to find royalty symbolized by a sun.
TROI: You said the personalities inside Data were in awe of her, even terrified.
PICARD: According to Data, the sun image is also a symbol for death.
PICARD: There it is again. The same U-shaped symbol, small and insignificant. Almost as if it's an afterthought.
LAFORGE: Captain, this is incredible. These artifacts weren't beamed over here from the archive. The matter here in Ten Forward has been transformed.
PICARD: Into living plants? How is that possible?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure. But bit by bit, this ship is being transformed.
WORF: We have been receiving reports from the rest of the ship. Part of deck twelve is now an aqueduct.
TROI: What are we being transformed into?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure I want to find out.
PICARD: I don't think we have a choice. We must destroy that archive. Mister Worf?
WORF: Sir, our weapon control systems are inoperative. However, we could reconfigure a photon torpedo for manual launch.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD: There's so much here we could have learned. I really regret losing that opportunity.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, I've locked in the targeting parameters. What's the phase alignment now?
WORF: Less than point seven percent.
LAFORGE: Good, that'll do it. I'm setting the yield at maximum.
WORF: Sir, the onboard power systems are not functioning.
LAFORGE: Let's see what's going on here?
LAFORGE: Something tells me we'd better get out of here.
WORF: Engineering to Bridge. Emergency transport. Two to beam out.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Maybe we'd better talk in here. The Observation Lounge has turned into a swamp.
PICARD: So, what's our status?
LAFORGE: Well, so far the archive has transformed about twenty percent of the ship. We've lost main propulsion and weapons systems in the process.
RIKER: What about communications, sensors, life support?
LAFORGE: We have communications, and limited sensor control. Life support seems to be unaffected.
CRUSHER: I've analyzed the alien plant forms. They've developed from biological matter we have on the ship.
LAFORGE: The stone, the artifacts, are made in much the same way, extrapolating from the ship's own alloys.
CRUSHER: Apparently the archive can reorder and transform molecular structure including DNA into anything it wants.
PICARD: So it's using our ship, our alloys, our DNA, to create elements of its own culture.
TROI: But why is this happening? What does the archive hope to accomplish?
PICARD: Well, whatever the intent that lies behind its process, I'm not going to permit this ship to be turned into an alien city. Mister La Forge, do you have any ideas?
LAFORGE: We still haven't been able to cut off that beam, but I have managed to access the archive by sending an energy pulse back along their signal path. If I can locate the transformation program, I might be able to control it.
PICARD: That's a good idea, but I feel that the answer lies there, with Masaka. We must find her, access her. Talk to her.

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Hello.
DATA-ELDER: Difficult to stay warm. It's not warm enough, not for an old man.
PICARD: Tell me about Masaka.
DATA-ELDER: My daughter.
PICARD: Tell me, how can I talk to her?
DATA-ELDER: Children grow, forget their parents. Only Korgano can talk to Masaka.
PICARD: Korgano? Who is that?
DATA-IHAT: Well, aren't we the persistent one.
PICARD: Ihat.
DATA-IHAT: Is anyone else so charming?
PICARD: Masaka is taking over my ship.
DATA-IHAT: I told you she would.
PICARD: I want to talk with her but I understand that Korgano is the only one who can do that.
DATA-IHAT: Who told you that?
PICARD: An old man. Masaka's father.
DATA-IHAT: Oh, yes, yes. Legend has it she chopped him up and used his bones to make the world. Any wonder he doesn't like to talk about her?
PICARD: How can I find Korgano?
DATA-IHAT: I don't know. He's not chasing her anymore.
PICARD: Where has he gone?
DATA-IHAT: Stop asking me these questions. I was fast enough to get away from her once. I don't want her to find me again. I'll wind up on her sacrificial slab.
PICARD: Ihat, if she's looking for a sacrifice, she can take me. Perhaps then she'll stop looking for you.
DATA-IHAT: Well, there's an idea. Better you than me.
PICARD: Very well. What do we do.
DATA-IHAT: You must build Masaka's temple. The Queen's temple. That will get her attention.
PICARD: Very well. How do I do that?
DATA-IHAT: You need the sign. I could give it to you. So could the old man. But just try getting it out of him.
PICARD: Give me the sign.
DATA-IHAT: If she finds out, you can't imagine her rage. She lets people die of thirst. A terrible death. Sometimes she burns them alive. She is glorious.
PICARD: Ihat, the sign, give it to me.
DATA-IHAT: If she comes, you will take my place?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA-IHAT: All right. Quickly, give me your hand. A line, as the unending horizon. A curve as. She has found me.
PICARD: Masaka, show yourself. I will go with you.
DATA-IHAT: It seems I was not fast enough.
DATA-ELDER: So hard to stay warm. Are you one of my children? I can't remember anymore.
PICARD: I need your help. I need the sign for the temple. For Masaka's temple.
DATA-ELDER: It won't help you. Korgano no longer pursues her. Only he can stop her.
PICARD: A line as the unending horizon. A curve as? A line as the unending horizon. A curve
DATA-ELDER: As the rolling hillside. A point as a distant bird. A ray as the rising sun.
PICARD: Thank you.
DATA-ELDER: Now, come sit with me. Tend the fire.
DATA-BOY: I'm alone. No one left to help me. She's coming.
PICARD: Are all the others dead? Did Masaka kill them?
DATA-BOY: No. She sent them away. It will take them days to die.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any progress, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: I think I've found the archive's transformation program.
PICARD: Will it accept the symbol for Masaka's temple?
LAFORGE: I think so. I've isolated the program's input pathways. They're keyed to accept symbols. If I input this one, it should initiate the transformation process.
RIKER: And create the temple?
LAFORGE: I hope so. If this is the wrong symbol, it might turn the Enterprise into a big chunk of rock. No way to know for sure.
TROI: The question is, can we trust a personality from an alien archive that seems bent on taking us over?
PICARD: Ihat risked his life to show me that symbol, and Masaka killed him for doing it. I think we have to risk it.

[Corridor]
WORF: Captain. The entire deck has been cleared of personnel. We may proceed.
PICARD: Commander Riker, we're ready.
RIKER (voiceover): Understood.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Initiate transformation.
LAFORGE: Inputting the symbol now.

[Temple]
PICARD: This would seem that this is Masaka's temple.
WORF: There is no one else here.
PICARD: Ihat said that if we created the temple, then it would get her attention. It may be some time before she shows herself.
WORF: How will she do that?
PICARD: I don't know.
TROI: Captain, take a look at this.
PICARD: This is the first time I've seen these two symbols paired. That could be significant. Look, there it is again, and again. And there again. This is obviously an important pairing. He isn't chasing her anymore.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Ihat said that someone named Korgano isn't chasing Masaka anymore. And the old man said, he pursues her no longer. In a sense, this small symbol might be seen to be chasing Masaka.
WORF: The symbol suggests antlers of some kind. Horns. Maybe it is meant to represent an animal.
TROI: Animals are worshiped in many cultures.
PICARD: That smaller symbol could represent Korgano. Both Ihat and the old man said that Korgano was the only one who could control Masaka. Many ritualistic cultures incorporate the idea of balance into their belief systems. Now, Masaka is a queen. A powerful, god-like figure. It's not unrealistic to believe that she might have a counterpart, a consort. Look around. See if you can find that horn-like symbol anywhere else.

[Temple]
TROI: This is the most prominent instance of the horn symbol we've seen yet.
WORF: But now it appears as though Masaka's sun is chasing it.
TROI: The sun chasing an animal?
PICARD: Maybe it's simpler than that. Maybe their relationship is more like the sun and the moon.
WORF: I see. Masaka and Korgano switching positions. The sun setting and the moon rising.
PICARD: Exactly. Like two powerful rulers changing places in a continuous cycle.
TROI: And like the sun and the moon, only one of them can be in ascendance at any given time.
PICARD: If we can find Korgano in the archive and bring him out, then perhaps he could force Masaka to leave.
WORF: But would we be any better off with him?
PICARD: Ihat and the others didn't seem to be frightened of Korgano.
TROI: Sir.
PICARD: Masaka.
PICARD: Masaka, I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
DATA-MASAKA: Go away.
PICARD: Please, hear us. Your archive is destroying
DATA-MASAKA: I do not hear you.
WORF: She will not even listen to us.
PICARD: Then we will have to find someone too whom she will listen.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've found it, Captain. This is the only place in the archive where Korgano's moon symbol appears by itself, not linked with Masaka's.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, I want you to access the transformation program. And when you're ready, input the symbol.
RIKER: Isn't that a little risky?
TROI: We have no way idea what the result would be. The symbol might generate anything from Korgano's temple to Korgano himself.
PICARD: In one sense, Korgano is Masaka's nemesis. Whatever this symbol represents, it could be for us a means to control her. Now, if anyone has a better idea, I'd be happy to entertain it.
LAFORGE: I've accessed the program, Captain.
PICARD: Initiate the transformation.
RIKER: Another mask.
PICARD: You know, we could be going about this all the wrong way. This is a very ritualistic culture based on symbol and myth. Perhaps we should try to confront them on those terms. If I could somehow incorporate myself in their ritual, then perhaps Masaka would listen to me.
RIKER: You're going to try to pose as Korgano?
TROI: Captain, we know so little about this culture and even less about Korgano. How would you convince Masaka that you're him?
PICARD: I'm really not certain, but there are similarities between this culture and others that I've studied. I would imagine I'm just going to improvise. Mister Worf, what's our status?
WORF: I estimate we have less than two hours before there is nothing left of the ship. At least, nothing we can recognize.

[Temple]
PICARD: Masaka.
DATA-MASAKA: Korgano.
PICARD: Are you surprised to see me?
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I had escaped you.
PICARD: You should know that is impossible.
DATA-MASAKA: You are a fine hunter but I am a powerful prey. You will never catch me.
PICARD: Do you want to be the prey forever?
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I was alone. I thought I would not have to share the sky with you.
PICARD: But without me you are not complete. I know you so well. You live for the chase, as do I. Will you not miss being the hunter, pursuing me, forcing me from the sky so that you can rise again?
DATA-MASAKA: You know me well, Korgano.
PICARD: I think that you are beginning to tire. It is difficult, brightening the sky forever.
DATA-MASAKA: I am getting sleepy. You always do that to me.
PICARD: So that you can wake with the dawn and begin the hunt again.
DATA-MASAKA: Let the hunt begin again. I am eager for that.
PICARD: As am I.

[Corridor]
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard. I don't know what you did, sir, but it looks like everything's back to normal.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Number One. Mister Data, are you all right?
DATA: I believe so, sir. I am not entirely certain what has happened. Have I been dreaming again?
PICARD: I'm afraid that will take some time to explain.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47618.4. Commander La Forge has managed to disable the alien transformation program. Starfleet has dispatched an archeological team to study the archive further.

[Ready room]
PICARD: But I don't understand. I thought all the alien artifacts had disappeared from the Enterprise.
DATA: That one was not created by the archive, sir. That is the clay mask I originally made. I have since painted it.
PICARD: A memento.
DATA: Yes, sir. Although I am relieved to be rid of those alien personalities, in a sense, I am now empty.
PICARD: I can imagine. Doctor Crusher told me that there were possibly dozens of personalities inside you.
DATA: I suspect the number was much greater. My impression is that there were thousands, of all ages and walks of life. It was a remarkable experience.
PICARD: Well, Data, you never may become fully human, but you've had an experience that transcends the human condition. You have been an entire civilization.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are losing containment in the starboard nacelle tube.
PICARD: Try to get more power to the field coils.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Report.
LAFORGE: I can't shut down the plasma injectors. Somebody's locked out the controls.

[Bridge]
DATA: The plasma venting system has engaged.

[Jefferies tube]
WORF: Two more decks.
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. We've almost reached the nacelle tube.
PICARD (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Release the exterior hull plate. We may have to jettison the core.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Nacelle control]
RIKER: What happened?
NARA: He locked out the controls. Before we knew what was happening, he stepped up onto the walkway.
RIKER: See if you can help shut down the plasma flow.
NARA: I'm afraid if we try to get any closer, he will jump through the forcefield.
RIKER: Dan, it's me. It's Will Riker. I was here yesterday, remember?
KWAN: I didn't want to do it. But I saw them. And they laughed at me. They laughed.
RIKER: Whatever happened, we can talk about it. I want to help.
KWAN: Stay away!
RIKER: I just want to see your face, that's all. So we can talk.
KWAN: I know what I have to do.
RIKER: Dan, no!
WORF: I have unlocked the controls.
COMPUTER: Shutdown procedure initiated.
NARA: There's still plasma in the injector. It'll take time to vent off.
RIKER: Tell me what happened. Maybe I can help.
KWAN: I know what I have to do.

[Ready room]
RIKER: A few more seconds I could've saved his life
WORF: Commander, you did everything you could. It was not your fault.
RIKER: It was strange. I felt as if he didn't even recognize me, although I was with him just the other day when I supervised the tube refit.
PICARD: How did he seem then?
RIKER: Fine. I complimented him on getting the refit done faster than expected. He was pleased that I'd noticed.
TROI: I met with him about six weeks ago, during the crew evaluations. He was very positive. He was looking forward to being posted to the nacelle tube.
RIKER: He was a good officer with a fine career ahead of him. I don't understand why he wanted
PICARD: In my years as a Starship Captain, I've had to notify many parents of the loss of loved ones, but never before a suicide. I would like to be able to offer Lieutenant Kwan's parents some explanation of what happened, to try to help them make sense of this.
WORF: Maybe he left a message of some kind, explaining why he did it.
PICARD: I would like the two of you to piece together a picture of his last few days.
TROI: If he made any personal logs, it might be helpful to look through them.
PICARD: You're authorized to do so.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've just finished my damage assessment. We should be able to get underway I'd say within the hour.
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge

[Ready room]
PICARD: The medical situation on Barson Two has worsened. Starfleet has given us permission to exceed warp speed limitations so as to get back on schedule.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We'll be able to give you warp eight if you need it.
PICARD (voiceover): Acknowledged.
DATA: Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation is shared by most life forms?
LAFORGE: I'd say it's probably the most basic instinct, Data.
DATA: That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why someone would deliberately terminate their own existence.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. All I can think is that maybe Lieutenant Kwan felt that there was something wrong in his life, something he felt powerless to fix.
DATA: I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation.
LAFORGE: Really?
DATA: The first months following my activation were a difficult period for me. There were many problems associated with my becoming sentient.
LAFORGE: Because your neural net was still forming.
DATA: As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing other less complex pathways. It was very disorienting.
LAFORGE: I bet.
DATA: As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly difficult to integrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The probability of cascade failure grew with each additional pathway. I came to the conclusion it would be safer and easier to shut myself down and start again.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but if you had done that, you wouldn't have remembered any of the things that had happened to you.
DATA: In a way, it would have been like committing suicide.
LAFORGE: So what did you do?
DATA: I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the problems I was having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather than obstacles to be avoided.
LAFORGE: Great way of looking at it, Data. I wish Lieutenant Kwan had been able to look at his problems the same way.

[Kwan's quarters]
WORF: This is a Napean design.
TROI: His mother's Napean, his father's human. It all looks so normal. For some reason I half expected the place to be a mess.
WORF: Yes. It is strange to think that someone could have considered ending his life and yet give no outward sign. Just before he jumped, he seemed almost calm.
TROI: Well, he must have been in a lot of pain to do what he did. It could be that the prospect of ending the pain felt like a great relief.
TROI: This is Ensign Calloway, isn't it?
WORF: Yes, she is a medical technician in Sickbay.
TROI: It's always hard to lose someone you care about, but to lose them like this?
WORF: We should check his personal logs.
TROI: This is his last entry. He made it before going on duty this morning.
KWAN (screen): Personal log, stardate 47622.1. We finally finished the nacelle tube refit last night. After pulling two double shifts in a row, I'm really looking forward to spending some time with Maddy.
TROI: Ensign Calloway. That doesn't sound like a man who's planning on taking his own life.
WORF: No. No, it does not.

[Crusher's office]
CALLOWAY: I can't believe he's really gone. I keep thinking he's going to show up and tell me there's been some kind of terrible misunderstanding.
TROI: I thought you might like to know that in his personal logs, Dan talked about you a great deal. He loved you very much.
CALLOWAY: If that's true, then how could he leave me like this?
TROI: That's what I'm trying to find out. I know it's hard to talk right now, but it would be very helpful if you could tell me a few things about him. When was the last time you saw him?
CALLOWAY: Two nights ago. We were planning our next shore leave together.
TROI: Did he mention anything that had happened recently, anything that might have upset him?
CALLOWAY: No, not really. He did say something about work, about Lieutenant Nara, but it wasn't anything serious.
TROI: Nara. She's his superior officer in the nacelle tube?
CALLOWAY: Yes. Dan sensed that she, well, that she felt threatened by him. That she thought he was after her position.
TROI: Was he prone to mood swings or depression?
CALLOWAY: No, but he was very sensitive to other people's moods. He used to look at me and know exactly what I was feeling. I always loved that about him.
TROI: Well, Napeans are partially empathic. He may have inherited some of his mother's abilities.
CALLOWAY: He used to tease me that when I met her, I wouldn't be able to get away with anything. Dan and I knew each other for over two years, but we didn't get together until a few months ago. We took it slow. We thought we had all the time in the world. Something must have happened to him, Counselor. Something terrible, because it's not like Dan to take his own life.
TROI: I understand.
CALLOWAY: Please, find out what it was.

[Nacelle control]
NARA: Can I help you?
TROI: Oh, I didn't see you there. You're Lieutenant Nara, aren't you?
NARA: Can I do something for you, Counselor?
TROI: I'm investigating Lieutenant Kwan's death, and I just wanted to look around.
NARA: It's such a shame. He was a good man.
TROI: Did you notice any change in his behavior recently?
NARA: No. I've been going over the last few days in my mind, trying to see if I, if I missed any warning signs. It's as if something in him just snapped.
TROI: How was his job performance?
NARA: Excellent. He knew this ship better than most people, probably because he helped build it back at Utopia Planitia.
TROI: Did he get along with his coworkers?
NARA: He was ambitious. He came in here with all sorts of new ideas about how to do things. Some of them very good ideas.
TROI: But not all?
NARA: No. But after he settled in, we got along fine.
NARA: Excuse me a minute. Feel free to look around.
TROI: Where was Lieutenant Kwan's station?
NARA: Right there.
NARA: Are you all right?
TROI: I don't know.

[Sickbay]
TROI: I don't know how to describe it. I was suddenly overwhelmed by a flood of emotions. Fear, rage, panic. And the sensations didn't seem to be coming from any person. They were just there, in the room.
RIKER: Whose emotions were they? I thought you said were alone.
TROI: I was.
WORF: I scanned the area. I found no anomalous readings.
RIKER: How could you get an empathic impression from an empty room?
TROI: I don't know.
CRUSHER: Could the fact that Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic have anything to do with it?
RIKER: What do you mean?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, but certainly the feelings Troi described are consistent with suicide.
RIKER: Could his death have left some sort of empathic echo?
TROI: I don't see how. But if I went back to the nacelle tube, I might get a better sense of what I experienced.
CRUSHER: I don't think I'd recommend that right now. You're showing elevated levels of psilosynine.
WORF: Psilosynine?
CRUSHER: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy. The experience overwhelmed you the first time. I think you should wait until your levels return to normal.
RIKER: How long?
CRUSHER: Three, maybe four hours.
RIKER: This time I want someone with you.
WORF: I shall accompany you, Counselor.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47623.2. We've arrived at Starbase three twenty eight on schedule. After taking aboard medical supplies, we will depart for Barson Two.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in. Hello, Worf.
WORF: Counselor. Have you found anything in Lieutenant Kwan's logs?
TROI: Everything I've read suggests that he was well-adjusted and optimistic. It just doesn't make any sense. Can I get you anything?
WORF: No. No, nothing.
TROI: Yridian tea. I've been thinking about what happened to me in the nacelle tube. Whether it was an empathic echo left by Kwan's death.
WORF: In the past, have your empathic experiences always involved the physical presence of another person?
TROI: All the ones I'm sure of, yes.
WORF: What do you mean, sure of?
TROI: Well, when I was a young girl, my grandfather used to tell me stories by the fire. I would close my eyes and listen to his mind for hours on end.
WORF: He would tell you these stories telepathically?
TROI: My grandfather rarely spoke. He said that was for off-worlders and people who didn't know any better. Now the only time I can remember his stories is when I go home and sit by the fireplace. Sometimes when I'm alone there, it's almost as if I can hear his voice inside my head.
WORF: Yes. Yes, I too have sought visions in fire.
TROI: I can't explain it, but it feels real to me. Just like what happened in the nacelle tube.
WORF: There are things we do not understand, yet they exist nonetheless. Perhaps I should let you get some rest.
TROI: Oh, it's all right.
WORF: If you will excuse me, Counselor.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Mister Worf.
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: Two Til'amin froths, please.
BARMAN: Yes, sir.
WORF: Lieutenant Corell seems to be enjoying your company.
RIKER: I'd like to think so.
WORF: Are you involved with her?
RIKER: I'm not sure yet. Why, are you interested?
WORF: No. But if I were, I would of course discuss the situation with you before proceeding further.
RIKER: I appreciate it, but that really wouldn't be necessary.
WORF: I mean I would never want to come between you and someone you are involved with, or had ever been involved with.
RIKER: Is there someone in particular that you're talking about?
WORF: No. Is there someone in particular you would rather I not be involved with?
RIKER: Mister Worf, you sound like a man who's asking his friend if he can start dating his sister.
WORF: No, no, I was merely. Never mind. Excuse me, sir.

[Nacelle control]
TROI: Could you open this door for me?
WORF: Yes, but only for a short time. After ninety seconds the plasma venting system will engage to prevent degradation of the forcefield.
TROI: I just want to take a quick look.
WORF: May I ask what you're looking for?
TROI: I'm not sure.
COMPUTER: Warning plasma venting system will engage in ninety seconds.
WOMAN: No! No, no, please. Please, please. No! Don't! No!
COMPUTER: Warning. Plasma venting system will engage in eighty seconds.
TROI: Worf?
WORF: Counselor, are you all right?
TROI: Let's get out of here.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Do you remember anything else?
TROI: Yes, I think I do. There was a tool crate on the floor. It was labeled Utopia Planitia.
DATA: The shipyard where the Enterprise was built.
PICARD: Clearly this was much more than an empathic echo. It seems that you were actually seeing something that happened in the control room eight years ago.
TROI: Everyone was looking directly at me, but it was as though I was seeing through someone else's eyes.
DATA: Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic.
CRUSHER: Maybe you were seeing it through his eyes?
TROI: It's possible, but I don't see how it could have happened.
PICARD: Well, putting that on one side for the moment, let's assume that by some unexplained phenomenon, you witnessed an event that occurred to Lieutenant Kwan. Those faces that you saw. Did you recognize any of them?
TROI: I've never seen the woman before, or the man who was with her. But there was someone else there. A man. He was staring at me in the most peculiar way. I think he had reddish hair. And he did seem familiar to me. But it's all so hazy. It's like trying to remember a dream.
PICARD: There was a woman who was frightened. And then you saw her again, laughing, presumably at Lieutenant Kwan.
CRUSHER: What does it all mean?
TROI: I don't know, but something terrible happened in there. I felt it.
PICARD: Counselor, I want you to look through the personnel files of Utopia Planitia. See if you can recognize any of those faces.
TROI: If only I could go back to the control room without being overwhelmed by the experience. It might help me remember some detail that might be relevant.
CRUSHER: I could give you an inhibitor that would slow the brain's production of psilosynine. That might be able to suppress your empathic abilities and make the experience more manageable. It would take about sixteen hours to synthesize the inhibitor.
TROI: I'd like to try that.
PICARD: Very well, Counselor.

[Bridge]
WORF: I apologize for being late. The viral medicines we are transporting to Barson Two require special security measures to insure they are properly contained. Have you found anything?
TROI: No. There were literally thousands of people involved in building the Enterprise.
WORF: Perhaps if you should try to narrow the search parameters.
TROI: I think I have. The man who looked familiar to me may have served on board the Enterprise in the last seven years, so I've asked the computer to limit its search to personnel who served at Utopia Planitia and on the Enterprise.
TROI: Ensign Salvatore. He transferred over a year ago. Lieutenant Ziff. She's in Quantum mechanics. That's him.
WORF: Lieutenant Walter Pierce.
TROI: I remember now. He came on board about six months ago. I think he's in Engineering.

[Engineering]
WORF: You were Lieutenant Kwan's supervisor at Utopia Planitia?
PIERCE: That's right. I was sorry to hear what happened.
TROI: Did you ever spend time in the nacelle control room while it was under construction?
PIERCE: I worked all over the ship. In fact, I remember running a power conduit right behind this wall here.
TROI: Were you ever in the nacelle room at the same time as Lieutenant Kwan?
PIERCE: It was a long time ago. People were working all over the place.
WORF: So you do not remember?
PIERCE: I'm sorry, I don't.
TROI: Do you recall if anything unusual happened there?
PIERCE: How do you mean?
TROI: An altercation, perhaps. Possibly involving Lieutenant Kwan.
PIERCE: No, nothing like that. The way I remember it, things went pretty smoothly. What's this all about, if you don't mind my asking?
TROI: Not at all. When I was in the nacelle room I had an empathic experience.
WORF: We believe the Counselor may have been seeing an event that occurred eight years ago.
TROI: And I saw you there. Do you have any idea why that might be?
PIERCE: I'm afraid I don't.
TROI: Lieutenant, are you aware that I can sense when someone's telling the truth?
PIERCE: I've heard that.
TROI: Then I'm sure that if you remember anything that might be relevant to our investigation, you'll contact me.
PIERCE: Of course.
TROI: Thank you, Lieutenant.
PIERCE: Counselor.

[Corridor]
TROI: The strange thing is I couldn't read him at all.
WORF: But you implied that? We have played poker together many times. I've never known you to bluff.
TROI: Well it wouldn't be much of a bluff if you knew, would it? The fact that I couldn't read him suggests that he has at least some telepathic ability.
WORF: But Pierce is human.
TROI: That's what I don't understand. Even though I couldn't read his emotions, I did feel that he was holding something back.
WORF: I thought so as well.
TROI: Maybe we should try to access the Engineering logs from Utopia Planitia. We might find out more about him.
WORF: There may be something in them about Lieutenant Kwan as well.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: It going to take about half an hour for the transmission to be completed.
WORF: Perhaps we should continue this in the morning.
TROI: It is late.
WORF: Yes, and you must be tired.
TROI: A little.
WORF: So I will say goodnight.
TROI: Goodnight.
WORF: We should get an early start tomorrow.
TROI: I think we should. I'll see you in the morning.
WORF: Yes.
TROI: Hello.
WORF: Breakfast is ready.
TROI: That sounds nice. But it can wait. Why didn't we do this a long time ago?
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Yes, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've synthesized the inhibitor. Please come to Sickbay whenever you're ready.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Crusher to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf, here.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Medical supplies are ready to be taken to cargo bay for transport.
WORF: I will be there shortly.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This should take effect immediately.
TROI: Will it completely suppress my empathic abilities?
CRUSHER: It's hard to say for sure, but I can always increase the dosage if it's not enough.
WORF: The cargo bay will be off limits to all but medical personnel.
CALLOWAY: Thanks for your help, sir.
WORF: You're welcome.
TROI: Good morning.
WORF: Counselor.
TROI: Data and Geordi are already in the nacelle tube. Are you ready?
WORF: Yes.
CALLOWAY: Excuse me, sir. About the quarantine field in the cargo bay? It looks like we'll need a second field generator.
WORF: I am needed here. I will join you as soon as I can.
TROI: All right.
WORF: Apparently my help was not so good after all.
CALLOWAY: Yes, it was. You were wonderful.
WORF: I think I know what's wrong.

[Nacelle control]
LAFORGE: Counselor, you okay?
TROI: I'm fine. The inhibitor seems to be working. Have you found anything?
LAFORGE: No, nothing unusual.
TROI: I don't remember seeing these during my empathic experience. Have they been here since the ship was built?
DATA: No, they were installed two years ago.
TROI: Geordi, I remember seeing a plasma conduit right there.
LAFORGE: The main ODN line runs right behind that panel. It lifts out so you can get to it.
NARA: Kwan was working on that conduit the day before he died.
TROI: Can you open it?
LAFORGE: Sure. It'll take just a minute.
LAFORGE: Data.
TROI: Lieutenant Nara, may I ask you something? The work Lieutenant Kwan was doing, was it unusual in any way?
NARA: He was refitting a field coil, but it was probably the first time that particular panel's been opened since the ship was built.
TROI: Thank you.

[Injector room]
WOMAN: No!
LAFORGE: Counselor, are you all right?
TROI: Something happened when you removed the panel. There's something in there.
DATA: I am getting readings that indicate organic material embedded in this wall.
LAFORGE: Organic? You're right. Let me reconfigure the emitter beam. We might be able to see what it is. There.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This dosage should prevent any further empathic flashes.
CALLOWAY: The bone fragments are definitely human. I sequenced a DNA sample. I'll see if I can match it to Starfleet records.
CALLOWAY: Accessing Starfleet personnel records.
CRUSHER: I'd say these fragments had been in the wall about seven or eight years. You said something happened when the panel was opened.
TROI: Yes.
CRUSHER: I wonder if the fragments themselves could have somehow triggered your experience. I'll run a resonance scan, see if anything turns up.
CALLOWAY: Sir, I think we've found a match.
WORF: Apparently the remains are those of an Ensign Marla Finn.
CALLOWAY: I'm trying to find a picture of her in the records.
TROI: That's her. That's the woman I saw.
CRUSHER: It says she was reported missing from Utopia Planitia on stardate 40987.2. Eight years ago. But how did her body become embedded in a bulkhead?
CALLOWAY: Maybe there was some kind of an accident.
WORF: Or she was killed and the murderer hid her remains.
TROI: Something's not right. Pull up Lieutenant Kwan's service record. I thought so. He didn't arrive at the shipyard until six months after Finn's death. I couldn't have been seeing through his eyes.
CRUSHER: Then whose?
TROI: Well it had to be someone who was at least partially telepathic.
WORF: Pierce?
CRUSHER: But you saw him there.
TROI: Yes, but not as clearly as I could see everything else. His face looked like that.
CRUSHER: A reflection.
TROI: So I was seeing through his eyes. And Finn was trying to get away from him. She was afraid of him.
WORF: I think it is time we had another conversation with Lieutenant Pierce. Ensign Calloway, thank you for your help.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Deck ten.
TROI: Worf, can I ask you something? Do you regret what happened last night?
WORF: No, of course not.
TROI: Are you sure? Because I don't want anything to jeopardize our friendship.
WORF: Deanna, I do not regret being with you. What is wrong?
TROI: I'm not feeling myself. Maybe it's the inhibitor. I'm so used to sensing what people are feeling, and now I can't.
WORF: Perhaps I should talk to Lieutenant Pierce alone.
TROI: That might be a good idea.
WORF: I will meet you in your quarters later.
TROI: I'll be waiting for you.
TROI: Deck eight.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
TROI: Security to Counselor Troi's quarters.
SECURITY (voiceover): Acknowledged.
PIERCE: I don't understand. Lieutenant Worf said you wanted to talk to me about something.
TROI: Where is he?
PIERCE: He said he had to go somewhere.
TROI: Troi to Worf. Computer, where is Lieutenant Worf?
COMPUTER (voiceover): Lieutenant Worf is in Ensign Calloway's quarters.
CREWWOMAN: Counselor?
TROI: Take Lieutenant Pierce to his quarters and hold him there.

[Corridor]
TROI: Security override, authorisation Troi Delta two nine.

[Calloway's quarters]
TROI: Stop it. Stop it! Stop it!
CALLOWAY: He's dead! You killed him!
TROI: No! No!

[Corridor]
PIERCE: You know what you have to do.

[Nacelle control]
TROI: I know what I have to do.
WORF: What are you doing?
COMPUTER: Warning. Plasma venting system will engage in seventy seconds.
TROI: You're alive! You're all right!

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I opened the maintenance door at Counselor Troi's request, then turned to see her standing too close to the force field.
TROI: It all seemed so real to me. I can't believe that everything I experienced happened in just those few seconds.
DATA: It appears Counselor was correct. Pierce was partially telepathic. His maternal grandmother was born on Betazed.
PICARD: What else have you found out?
DATA: According to Starfleet records, Pierce and the other persons Counselor Troi identified, were killed in an accidental plasma discharge eight years ago. Their bodies were never found.
TROI: I don't believe it was an accident. I think Lieutenant Pierce found out the other two were having an affair. He lost control and he killed them both. Afterwards, he probably activated the plasma stream and then threw himself into it.
WORF: The plasma discharge would have obliterated any evidence that it was murder.
LAFORGE: I scanned behind the panel Counselor Troi asked me to. I didn't find any bone fragments but I did find some traces of cellular residue showing some kind of psionic signature.
TROI: It may be that when Lieutenant Pierce was struck by the plasma stream, the subspace energy present there imprinted his empathic pattern into the residue.
LAFORGE: Kind of like a psychic photograph.
TROI: That's what triggered my hallucination. My mind must have taken elements from my own life and then created a situation that in many ways mirrored what happened to Pierce. If you hadn't been there, I would have jumped just like he did.

[Bridge]
WORF: Counselor. When I pulled you from the plasma stream, you seemed surprised I was alive.
TROI: Well, actually, in my hallucination, you were killed.
WORF: May I ask by whom?
TROI: Well, you know what they say, Mister Worf. Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: So why were you rolling around in Cypirion cactus?
RIKER: You know Rebecca Smith?
OGAWA: The new Tactical officer?
RIKER: We took a walk in the Arboretum. We sat down, we got comfortable, things got a little romantic, and then I rolled over.
BARCLAY: Blurred vision, dizziness, palpitations, a stinging sensation in the lower spine. It's Terrelian Death Syndrome, isn't it.
CRUSHER: I thought we agreed you'd come to me before checking Starfleet Medical Database.
BARCLAY: Yes, well, this time I'm glad I did. Maybe we can stop the cellular decay before it's too late.
CRUSHER: Reg, you don't have Terrelian Death Syndrome.
BARCLAY: You, you're sure?
CRUSHER: I'm sure.
BARCLAY: Then maybe it is Symbalene blood burn.
CRUSHER: No, no. I don't see anything wrong with you at all. Wait a minute, there is a slight imbalance in your K three cell count.
BARCLAY: My K threes? Oh, no.
CRUSHER: Barclay, I'm sure it's nothing. Look, I'll run a microcellular scan. We'll see. This'll take a couple of minutes.
CRUSHER: How's my smallest patient doing?
DATA: I believe she is doing well. Her appetite has increased by seven percent, and she is starting to engage in prenatal behavior.
CRUSHER: Oh, she's getting close. You'll have a fresh litter of hungry kittens before the week is over. Let me just run an amniotic scan to make sure everything's fine and then I'll
BARCLAY: Doctor! My capillaries are shrinking!
CRUSHER: Excuse me. Alyssa, can you take care of Spot for a minute? Start a preliminary amniotic scan.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
BARCLAY: My intravascular pressure, it's going right through the roof.
CRUSHER: You're right, it is elevated. You've also got heightened electrophoretic activity.
BARCLAY: Electrophoretic activity? Is it serious?
CRUSHER: Well, based on this, I'd say you've got seventy, maybe eighty years.
BARCLAY: Eighty? Eighty years?
CRUSHER: Yes, Reg. What you've got a mild case of Urodelan Flu. It's nothing serious. Most humans have a natural immunity to it, but the T-cell in your DNA that would normally fight off the infection is dormant.
BARCLAY: So you mean I have bad genes?
CRUSHER: You have one dormant gene out of a hundred thousand, and I can activate that gene with a synthetic T-cell let the body attack the infection naturally. You should feel better in a couple of days.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Doctor. I feel much better.
CRUSHER: Good. Now, stay away from Medical Database. And you stay out of the Arboretum.
OGAWA: Everything looks fine, Data. Do you want to know the sex of the kittens?
DATA: I have noticed that many humans prefer not to know in order to experience the surprise during birth. I believe I will preserve the mystery until then.
OGAWA: I know what you mean. I don't want to know either.
CRUSHER: Alyssa?
OGAWA: Spot's not the only one who's going to be a mother.
CRUSHER: Oh, Alyssa, that's wonderful! How did Andrew take the news?
OGAWA: He was a little shocked, but he's getting over it.
DATA: I have spent the past nine weeks as an expectant parent. I would be happy to share my insights with your husband. If my experience is any indication, he will need all the help he can get.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47653.2. We're performing field tests of our new tactical systems and weapon upgrades. Mister Worf is supervising the exercises.

[Bridge]
WORF: The next test will involve the new photon torpedoes. The explosive yield has been increased by eleven percent and I have enhanced the targeting system for increased accuracy.
PICARD: Sounds fascinating, Mister Worf. Please proceed.
WORF: Setting targeting coordinates zero zero five mark three one seven, spread pattern delta nine four. Torpedoes armed and loaded, sir.
PICARD: Fire when ready.
RIKER: Worf?
WORF: One of the torpedoes has veered off course. It appears to be a malfunction in the guidance system.
PICARD: Abort and destroy.
WORF: The torpedo is not responding. Subspace detonator will not engage.
RIKER: Lock on phasers.
WORF: The torpedo is out of range.
RIKER: Even for your newly improved phasers?
PICARD: Maintain a sensor lock on the torpedo, Mister Worf. We'll have to go after it.
DATA: That would be inadvisable, sir. The asteroid field is unusually dense. The Enterprise is too large to safely navigate through it.
PICARD: Then I'll take a shuttlecraft and retrieve it. Mister Data, you're with me.
RIKER: Captain, the shuttle pilot who's on duty is Lieutenant Hayes.
PICARD: I happen to be a reasonably qualified pilot, Number One. Besides, these tests hardly require the Captain's personal attention.
RIKER: Understood. Enjoy yourself.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I think that you should consider analyzing your new guidance system.
DATA: Captain, I will need a few minutes to attend to a personal matter.

[Data's quarters]
BARCLAY: Me?
DATA: It is possible that it will take several days for Captain Picard and me to complete our mission. I would prefer to have a human present to supervise the birthing process.
BARCLAY: Well, I'd be honored.
DATA: I have noticed that you are the only other member of the crew whom Spot seems to like.
BARCLAY: Really? That's hard to believe. You're such a sweet little kitty.
DATA: She is to you. However, there have been several injuries to other members of the crew who have attempted to care for her.
BARCLAY: So, has she picked a place?
DATA: A place?
BARCLAY: Cats usually like to pick a specific location to give birth. It's usually dark and secluded, and I believe this is it.
BARCLAY: I'm curious, sir. Who's the father?
DATA: I am not certain. Spot has escaped from my quarters on several occasions and there are twelve male felines on board. I intend to run a full DNA analysis on the kittens once they
PICARD (voiceover): Picard to Data. Report to Shuttlebay two.
DATA: On my way, sir. Goodbye, Spot. I believe you are in good hands.
BARCLAY: You have nothing to worry about, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Problem?
WORF: I have performed thirteen diagnostics of the weapons array, and I can find nothing wrong with the guidance system.
RIKER: I'll have Geordi run a diagnostic of the torpedo bay itself. Maybe he can find something.
WORF: Must you to stand so close to me?
RIKER: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: Yes, I am fine.
RIKER: No, you're not. You've been working for six hours straight. You're tired. Take a break.
WORF: But
RIKER: That's an order, Lieutenant.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Thanks for waiting.
WORF: Do not approach me unannounced, especially when I'm eating.
TROI: Worf we were supposed to have lunch together, remember?
WORF: I was hungry.
TROI: Well, I'm hungry too. Excuse me.
WAITRESS: Yes?
TROI: Can I have an order of Ongilin caviar. Make that a double order.
WAITRESS: Certainly.
WORF: Caviar? For lunch?
TROI: I'm in the mood for something salty. Besides, it's no stranger than what you're eating. Have you noticed how dry the air is on the ship? I wonder if the environmental controls are set properly.
TROI: You're excused.
TROI: Is something wrong?
WORF: It has been a difficult day. The torpedo guidance system failed. It was my fault.
TROI: You always say that.
WORF: It was my fault! I designed that guidance system.
TROI: Worf, calm down. I think you're under more stress than you'd like to admit. Maybe you should get some rest.
WORF: Perhaps you are right. If you will excuse me.
TROI: I didn't mean right now.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: We removed the torpedo bay's primary guidance module and found a power fluctuation in the forward sensor cluster. Now we think it may be a radial imbalance in the phase discriminator. Now what we want to do next is run a level four diagnostic, but we're going to have to shut down auxiliary power to nineteen decks and
RIKER: Wait a minute. Slow down. I lost you back there. Which sensor clusters?
BARCLAY: The forward. It's, it's a power fluctuation in the converter nodes. It's a minor adjustment. It's minor.
LAFORGE: It's all right in here in on diagram, Commander.
RIKER: I'll look this over later. Go ahead. You run your diagnostic. I'll inform the other departments about the power systems.
BARCLAY: I'll check that.
RIKER: He's full of energy today.
LAFORGE: I can't get him to slow down. He's been working like that since last night,
BARCLAY: Looks like a plasma conduit cut out in junction seventeen. I'll go look at it.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, Reg, I'll go with you. Keep you posted.

[Bridge]
TROI: Computer, increase ambient temperature by two degrees Centigrade and increase relative humidity by ten percent.
WORF: Computer, reset environmental controls to standard.
TROI: Worf, it's freezing in here.
WORF: You have already raised the temperature three times. It is too hot.
TROI: Live with it. Computer, execute my original command.
TROI: I need a bath. You have the Bridge.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY: Here we are. Looks like a conduit ruptured. No problem, I'll just bypass it.
LAFORGE: Reg, wait a second here. Take a look at these corroded edges here. It looks like something has dissolved the bulkhead and eaten right through the conduit. There are high levels of cholic acid here. Enzymatic agents. You know, I wouldn't be surprised if that solvent was organic.
BARCLAY: Maybe we should run a biospectral analysis on the solvent. Take a closer look.
LAFORGE: That's a very good idea, but first we should take a break.
BARCLAY: You go ahead, sir. I'll take care of it.

[Bridge]
DERN: Commander, we received a communication from Starfleet. They wanted to know when they could expect your performance analysis of the new weapon systems.
RIKER: The weapon systems?
DERN: Yes, sir. The ones we've been testing for the past few days?
RIKER: That's right.
DERN: What should I tell them, sir?
RIKER: Tell them, tell them we haven't finished yet.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: What are you doing here?
WORF: I had to be near you.
TROI: Computer, increase temperature by five degrees.
WORF: Get out of that water now.
TROI: Leave me alone!

[Sickbay]
TROI: Can I have a glass of water? It's so cold in here.
CRUSHER: Your temperature has dropped almost eight degrees. I want to run a hypothalamic series right away.
OGAWA: Doctor, we've had three other crewmembers complaining about the temperature levels. Some feel like they have fevers, others are freezing like Counselor Troi.
CRUSHER: Call Doctor Selar and Doctor Hacopian. It looks like we've got some sort of viral infection going on around here. I want to check on Lieutenant Worf.
CRUSHER: Worf, have you had any unusual symptoms lately? Headaches, nausea, dizziness? Worf? Worf, do you hear me? I going to run a full bioscan. I want you to lie down. Okay, we can do this sitting up. What is this? Worf, how long have you had this on your neck? It looks like it's full of some bioacidic compound, almost like a venom sac. Worf, open your mouth.
OGAWA: Get a hypospray.
NURSE: Right away.

[Observation lounge]
OGAWA: I managed to get her into stasis before the venom paralyzed her. She's going to need reconstructive surgery, but I think she'll be all right.
BARCLAY: Sir, we've analyzed the venom and compared it to the acidic compound found in junction seventeen and on decks ten and twelve. They all have the same enzymatic composition.
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf is spraying this
BARCLAY: Venom.
RIKER: Venom all over the ship?
BARCLAY: I'd say so.
OGAWA: Sixty crewmen have begun exhibiting strange behavioral changes. Memory loss, fatigue, headaches. I think one thing is clear. There's some sort of disease aboard the Enterprise and it's spreading.
RIKER: I'm having trouble concentrating myself. It's like my mind keeps wandering. I can't
LAFORGE: Commander, I've got seven security teams out hunting for Worf, but for some reason sensors are having a difficult time locking onto him. I've called for a level two security alert. Do you think we should go to a Level One?
RIKER: I don't know. What do you think?
LAFORGE: I think we should.
RIKER: Okay. Sounds good. Then you'll take care of that security thing?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I will.
RIKER: Okay, I'll notify Starfleet. I'll let them know what's happening. You have your orders. Dismissed.
RIKER: Computer, send a subspace message to Starfleet command. Security channel authorisation.
COMPUTER: Alpha four seven authorisation required to activate security channel.
RIKER: Computer.
COMPUTER: Awaiting authorisation.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data and I have recovered the stray torpedo after a three day search. We are enroute back to the Enterprise.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Captain, the ship is not at the pre-arranged coordinates.
PICARD: Have they been delayed?
DATA: I do not know. I am unable to raise them on any communication channel.
PICARD: Scan the vicinity. See if you can find them.
DATA: I found it, sir, two light years away.
PICARD: Set a course.
DATA: The Enterprise appears to be adrift. I am reading power fluctuations on all decks.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: There are life signs. However, sensor readings are highly distorted. I am unable to identify specific lifeforms.
PICARD: Adjust the axial stabilizers to match the attitude and rotation rate of the Enterprise, I'm going to dock the shuttle manually.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Main power is offline. All systems are in standby or emergency mode. There is no response from any manned station.
PICARD: Any sign of the crew?
DATA: I cannot access internal sensors from here. We will have to go to the Bridge.

[Corridor]
PICARD: That sounds like animals.
DATA: Yes, sir. I am able to discern over three hundred different vocalizations.
PICARD: Look at this.
DATA: It is composed of reptilian DNA. I believe it is an epidermal layer that has been cast off during molting.
PICARD: But it seems to be humanoid.
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the Enterprise that shed their skin in this fashion.
DATA: Sir.
PICARD: These are Commander Troi's quarters. Can you tell if she's inside?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Data, I want to have a look in here. Stand ready.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered. Data, over here.
PICARD: Deanna.
PICARD: What's happened to her?
DATA: Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a fundamental level, sir, she is no longer human.
PICARD: What is she?
DATA: Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolizing both water and air, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I believe she is amphibian, sir.
PICARD: She has been injured.
DATA: Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva.
PICARD: Are you saying she's been bitten?
DATA: It would appear so.
DATA: I will need to run a full biospectral analysis.
PICARD: First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
DATA: His upper spinal column has been broken in three places.
PICARD: It looks like he's been attacked by some sort of animal.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Has his DNA been changed as well?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it was in its initial stages when he died. Captain, I am picking up one thousand and eleven individual life forms within the ship. All exhibit a similar genetic flux to the one we observed in Counselor Troi.
PICARD: So the entire ship has been affected.
DATA: Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout the ship. However, there are several large concentrations in the arboretum and the aquatic lab.
PICARD: I've regained attitude control for the ship, but main power is still offline. It looks as though the entire power transfer grid has been destroyed.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Will?
DATA: Captain. His cranial plates have thickened by twenty percent. His brain is much smaller, sir. I do not believe he can comprehend our language.
PICARD: Perhaps we can find a way to communicate. Will, can you understand what it is that
PICARD: He looks almost proto-human.
DATA: Yes, sir. His DNA would seem to confirm that observation. Captain, I believe the crew is de-evolving.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: This tranquilizer should keep him unconscious for another seven hours. What have you found out?
DATA: I have analyzed Commander Riker's DNA structure. A synthetic T-cell has invaded his genetic codes. This T-cell has begun to activate his latent introns.
PICARD: Introns?
DATA: They are genetic codes which are normally dormant. They are evolutionary holdovers, sequences of DNA that provided key behavioral and physical characteristics millions of years ago, but are no longer necessary. For instance, Counselor Troi's gill slits and other amphibious characteristics were derived from introns which still contain amphibious codes.
PICARD: So these introns are causing her DNA to re-combine in an earlier configuration?
DATA: That is correct. In her case, the DNA has created an amphibious lifeform which became extinct over fifty million years ago.
PICARD: And Commander Riker's introns are changing him into what appears to be one of the earlier hominids.
DATA: Yes, sir. I would say Australopithecine. Each of these stages is another link in the evolutionary chain which stretches back to the origins of all lifeforms on Earth. Because introns can include genetic material from many different species over millions of years of evolution, it is possible that a wide variety of transformations is occurring among the crew.
PICARD: What about those crewmembers who are not from Earth?
DATA: All humanoid life has a similar genetic pattern. The virus should work on non-human crewmembers in the same way. They are each de-evolving to earlier forms of life on their homeworlds. I feel I must inform you, sir, you have also been infected by the intron virus.
PICARD: How long before I begin to change?
DATA: According to my calculations, within the next twelve hours, you will begin to exhibit the first signs of your eventual transformation.
PICARD: And what will that be
DATA: I believe you will also de-evolve into some form of early primate. Possibly similar to a lemur, or a pygmy marmoset.
PICARD: Well, before I begin swinging through the ship looking for breakfast, we'd better find some answers. How do we reverse the process?
DATA: I am uncertain. We will need to run several microcellular scans. However, the ship's main computer has been damaged. Captain, the computer in my quarters has an independent processing and memory storage unit. It should not be affected. I suggest we start from there.
PICARD: Agreed.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: It would appear that Spot has had her kittens.
PICARD: They sound hungry.
DATA: Yes. I am curious as to why Spot is not caring for them.
PICARD: It would seem the intron virus is not limited to humanoid lifeforms.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: These kittens were born less than twenty four hours. It would appear that Spot's transformation took place at approximately the same time.
PICARD: So Spot was giving birth to the kittens at the same time that she was changing into a reptilian lifeform.
DATA: I believe so. For some reason, the intron virus was not passed on to the kittens. I do not know why.
PICARD: If I remember my biology, there are several natural immune systems that come into play in the mother's womb to protect the fetus from viral infections.
DATA: That is true. Placental barrier, maternal antibodies and amniotic fluids all serve as a filtration system.
PICARD: Maybe we could have inhibited the intron virus by using the natural antibodies in Spot's amniotic fluid.
DATA: It would take further research, but I believe to be effective on humanoid crewmembers, humanoid antibodies would be necessary.
PICARD: Then we should locate a pregnant humanoid.
DATA: Nurse Ogawa has recently became pregnant.
PICARD: Where is she?
DATA: I have traced her comm. badge signal to deck seventeen, section twenty one alpha.
PICARD: The Arboretum.
DATA: One of the warp plasma vents has failed. Main Engineering has been abandoned. There is no one there to fix the problem.

[Engineering]
DATA: I can repair the damaged plasma vent from here.
PICARD: I'm going to check the status of the warp core.
PICARD: Data!
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: I believe it was Lieutenant Barclay. He appeared to be partially transformed into an arachnid.
PICARD: A spider?
DATA: Yes, sir. Are you all right, Captain?
PICARD: I have these intense feelings of fear and panic. I feel as if I were being watched. I can't explain it.
DATA: You may be experiencing the initial stages of your transformation. Early primates were often prey to larger carnivores. As a result, their instincts probably included a heightened sense of awareness.
PICARD: In that case, my instincts tell me that we'd better hurry.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Captain, I have analyzed Nurse Ogawa's embryo. It has been unaffected by the virus. I believe I can use her amniotic fluid as a template for a retrovirus. It would neutralize the synthetic T-cell, and re-establish the original genetic patterns of each host.
PICARD: How soon can you do that?
DATA: It will not take long to isolate the appropriate genetic material. I will need to get the Sickbay computer back on
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: It is large. Approximately two hundred kilograms. It is heavily armored with an exoskeleton. Life signs appear to be Klingon.
PICARD: Worf.
PICARD: Set your phaser to heavy stun.
DATA: We cannot be certain a stun setting will have any effect on him. A higher setting may kill him.
PICARD: Listen to that. He sounds very angry, really, really aggressive. What do you think he wants? Do you think he's responding to some predatory instinct? Do you think he see us as prey?
DATA: There are crewmembers in the corridors and other sections of the ship. It would be much easier for him to capture and consume one of them, than to attempt to break through a door.
PICARD: Then what does he want? Predators use vocalizations to frighten other predators and to mark territory, and to commence mating process. A mating process. Counselor Troi was bitten by a Klingon but not in a place that might be life-threatening. Nowhere near a major artery or organ. Data, look at this. Look at this injury. This wound was never intended to give her any kind of serious harm.
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?
PICARD: Is it possible that Worf could see Counselor Troi as his mate?
DATA: If that is true, he must be trying to reach her now.
PICARD: Well, we can't just leave. We have to stay here and protect her. And we have to keep on working on the retrovirus. If we could distract him, if we could lure him away from her.
DATA: The mating instinct is quite strong in Klingon biology. I am not certain what would be an effective lure.
PICARD: Klingons have got a very powerful sense of smell. If we could duplicate Deanna's pheromones and then convince him she's no longer in Sickbay, that she'd gone into some other part of the ship.
DATA: I am extracting a blood sample from one of her sebaceous glands, where the pheromones are produced. I believe I can activate the pheromones with a bioactivant solution.
PICARD: Can you amplify the pheromones? They need to be much more powerful than Deanna's actual scent.
DATA: I believe this will produce the desired effect. I will use it to draw Worf to a another part of the ship.
PICARD: No, no, no. You must go on working on the retrovirus. I'll go.
DATA: Captain, that is extremely unwise. Worf may be much faster than
PICARD: No time. No time to argue.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck seventeen. Deck seventeen!

[Sickbay]
DATA: Computer, display progress of genetic re-sequencing.

[Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Genetic re-sequencing in progress. DNA to seventy percent normal.
DATA: Computer, increase nucleotide substitution by thirty two percent.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Data to Captain Picard.

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD: Go ahead, Data.
DATA: The retro virus is working, sir.

[Sickbay]
DATA: I can release it into the ship's atmosphere in a gaseous state.

[Jefferies tube]
DATA (voiceover): However it will take some time to take effect.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Are you all right, sir?
PICARD (voiceover): Yes, I'm

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD: Fine, Mister Data. Proceed. Well, Mister Worf, let's hope that when you wake up, you're a new man.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data has succeeded in returning the crew to normal. Doctor Crusher has determined that the synthetic T-cell she used to cure Mister Barclay's Urodelan flu initiated the intron virus which swept through the ship.

[Sickbay]
BARCLAY: So, this is my fault?
CRUSHER: No. In a way it's mine. I didn't realize it at the time, but there's an anomaly in your genetic chemistry that caused the synthetic T-cell to mutate. Instead of activating one dormant gene, it started activating all of them, including your introns.
BARCLAY: And that's what er, and that's what caused me to devolve?
CRUSHER: You and every other member of the crew. The T-cell became airborne and started to spread like a virus. You know, Reg, this is a completely new disease, and it's traditional to classify a new disease with the name of the first diagnosed patient.
BARCLAY: Oh! You mean you want to name the disease after me?
CRUSHER: That's right. How about Barclay's Protomorphosis Syndrome?
BARCLAY: Barclay's Protomorphosis. It has a nice ring to it. Thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: He transformed into a spider and now he has a disease named after him.
TROI: I think I'd better clear my calendar for the next few weeks.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47751.2. The Enterprise has arrived at Starbase three one zero for a meeting with Fleet Admiral Necheyev. This visit will also give us the opportunity to pick up a member of the family.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Here you are, your very own quarters. They're as far away from mine as possible, so you don't even have to see me if you don't want to.
WESLEY: Mom, you know that's not why I asked for my own quarters this time.
CRUSHER: You don't have to explain. There comes a time in a young man's life when he doesn't want to stay with his poor senile mother. I understand.
WESLEY: I'll come visit you in the old Doctor's Home every Sunday.
WESLEY: Come in.
LAFORGE: So, is there a runaway cadet in here?
DATA: If so, we may have to call Security.
LAFORGE: Welcome back, Wes.
WESLEY: Thanks.
LAFORGE: So, how's life at the Academy?
WESLEY: It's great. It's great but it's good to have a break.
DATA: I was of course not serious about calling Security. It was a joke.
WESLEY: I got it, Data.
LAFORGE: So, are you just going to lounge while we all have work to do around here?
WESLEY: I'm sure I can find some time to help you, sir.
LAFORGE: Wes, enjoy your vacation. I'm sure you've earned it.
WESLEY: Thanks.
CRUSHER: Well, I think we'd better let you settle in.
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's a good idea. Say, Wes, don't sleep your whole vacation away, all right?
DATA: Goodbye, Wes.
CRUSHER: It's good to have you home, son.
WESLEY: Thanks, Mom.
CRUSHER: Really.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Admiral Necheyev has just beamed aboard. She's being escorted right here.
PICARD: Good.
RIKER: Earl Gray tea, watercress sandwiches and Bularian canapés. Are you up for a promotion?
PICARD: I am trying to establish a new relationship with the Admiral. There has been a certain amount of tension between us in the past.
RIKER: Tension is hardly the word I'd use.
PICARD: Well, I am trying to get things off on a better note this time. I want to make her feel at ease. I want her to feel that she's welcome aboard the Enterprise.
RIKER: Is there any reason she shouldn't feel welcome here?
PICARD: We don't have to like her, Will, but we have to follow her orders, and maintaining this atmosphere of confrontation serves no purpose.
PICARD: Admiral Necheyev, welcome aboard the Enterprise.
NECHAYEV: Thank you. You may leave, Commander Riker.
RIKER: Thank you, Admiral. Captain.
PICARD: May I offer you some refreshment?
NECHAYEV: I'll come right to the point, Captain. There is a situation that's developed on the Cardassian border that. Are those Bularian canapés?
PICARD: As a matter of fact, they are. I spoke with your aide, Commander Wrightwell, and he said that you were particularly fond of them.
NECHAYEV: That was very thoughtful, Captain. Thank you.
PICARD: Please. You were saying about the Cardassians?
NECHAYEV: Yes. The Federation has just completed a very long and drawn-out series of negotiations regarding the final status of our border with the Cardassians. These will be the official boundaries.
PICARD: I see.
NECHAYEV: You'll notice a demilitarized zone has also been created along the border. Neither side will be permitted to place military outposts, conduct fleet exercises, or station warships anywhere in the demilitarized area.
PICARD: This border places several Federation colonies in Cardassian territory and some Cardassian colonies in ours.
NECHAYEV: This agreement is far from perfect. Neither side got everything they wanted, but every side got something. And as someone once said, diplomacy is the art of the possible. Those colonies finding themselves on the wrong side of the border will have to be moved.
PICARD: Well, the colonists are not going to be happy about that. Some of them have been there for decades.
NECHAYEV: It won't be easy, but it's a reasonable price to pay for peace. Your mission will be to evacuate the colony on Dorvan Five.
PICARD: Dorvan Five? Isn't that where the group of North American Indians settled?
NECHAYEV: Yes. They've been there for about twenty years. They've established a village in a small valley on the southern continent. Is something wrong?
PICARD: Admiral, centuries ago these North American Indians were forcibly displaced from their ancestral lands. These settlers on Dorvan Five originally left Earth more than two hundred years ago in order to preserve their cultural identities.
NECHAYEV: I am aware of that, Captain.
PICARD: You see, Admiral, there are some very disturbing historical parallels here. Once more, they're being asked to leave their homes because of a political decision that has been taken by a distant government.
NECHAYEV: An Indian representative was included in the deliberations of the Federation Council. His objections were noted, discussed, but ultimately rejected. Captain, the Indians on Dorvan are a nomadic group that have settled there only twenty years ago, and at that time they were warned that the planet was hotly disputed by the Cardassians. The bottom line is they never should have gone there in the first place.
PICARD: Granted, but to go to them now after twenty years later and ask them to leave what is now their home.
NECHAYEV: I made that same argument with the Federation Council. But it took three years to negotiate this treaty. Some concessions had to be made, and this is one of them.
PICARD: What if these Indians refuse to be evacuated?
NECHAYEV: Then your orders will be to remove them by whatever means are necessary. I understand your moral objections, Captain. If you wish, I can find someone else to command the Enterprise for this mission.
PICARD: That will not be necessary, Admiral.
NECHAYEV: I don't envy you this task, but I do believe it is for the greater good.
PICARD: I understand.
NECHAYEV: And Captain, thank you for making me feel welcome.
PICARD: You will always be welcome aboard this ship, Admiral.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Thanks, Ensign. Hey, Wes! There you are. Come here for a second. I've got something I want to show you. Come on, come on. You've got to take a look at this. Now, remember how we always used to talk about improving quantum efficiency by creating a new plasmadyne relay? Well, take a look at this.
WESLEY: You've only got one microfusion interrelay in there? Your converter interface'll never hold up.
LAFORGE: Hey, I ran these diagnostics myself. This little baby will withstand over five hundred Cochranes of warp field stress.
WESLEY: I don't think so. You better put a secondary phase inverter in there. Look at your subprocessor matrix. It needs an overhaul.
LAFORGE: Well, that may be your opinion, Cadet, but I stand by my work.
WESLEY: Read the latest paper from Doctor Vassbinder. He has brilliant new theories on warp propulsion inter-relays. He's say all this stuff is obsolete.
LAFORGE: I don't know what's gotten into you, Wes.
WESLEY: Look, do you want my help or not?
LAFORGE: With this kind of an attitude, absolutely not. You're dismissed.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has arrived at Dorvan Five and I have spoken to the Leader of the Tribal Council. He has agreed to meet with us this afternoon to discuss the situation.

[Meeting room]
PICARD: Anthwara, there's very little I can do. The decision about this planet was made at the very highest level of Starfleet.
WAKASA: Do you know how long we have searched for a home? Almost two hundred years. Then we found this world. Can you blame us for not wanting to give it up?
PICARD: I understand and I respect your people's long journey, but I believe that I can help you to find a new home.
TROI: As you can see, there are three other planets in this sector that have environmental conditions similar to those here on Dorvan Five. They're all uninhabited and could be colonized immediately.
PICARD: And if none of these worlds meet with your approval, then we'll find you other choices.
ANTHWARA: You do not understand, Captain. The choice of this world was not only because of environmental conditions. There were other more intangible concerns as well. When I came here twenty years ago, I was welcomed by the mountains, the rivers, the sky.
WAKASA: Anthwara, he's laughing at you. He thinks you're talking about old superstition and nonsense.
PICARD: This is not true. I have the deepest deal of respect for your beliefs and the meaning that they hold for your people.
ANTHWARA: Then you can respect the fact that this planet holds a deep spiritual significance for us. It has taken us two centuries to find this place. We do not want to spend another two hundred years searching for what we already have.
TROI: Captain, I suggest we adjourn. Allow us all time to think about what's been said.
ANTHWARA: Agreed. We will reconvene tomorrow.
PICARD: And in the meantime, I would like to invite you all to join us this evening on the Enterprise.
ANTHWARA: Thank you. We look forward to it.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Ever since you've come on board you've been moody, sullen and rude. What's going on?
WESLEY: Nothing. I just want to be left alone.
CRUSHER: That incident in Engineering was inexcusable.
WESLEY: That is my business. I don't need you telling me how to behave.
CRUSHER: I shouldn't have to. You're a fourth year Starfleet cadet. You should have a certain level of maturity.
WESLEY: Maybe I am sick of following rules and regulations. Maybe I am sick of living up to everyone else's expectations. Did you ever think of that?

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: I have been fascinated looking into the history and traditions of your people, and I was very interested to learn that your grandfather, Katowa, was the man who first led the group of Indians from Earth initially more than two hundred years ago.
ANTHWARA: There was great deal of opposition. Even my own father was against it. But when Katowa made his decision, it was final. My father never said another word.
PICARD: It's never easy to leave one's home, the safe and the familiar. But there are times when the greater good demands that certain sacrifices are made. I'm sure that was something that your grandfather understood.
ANTHWARA: So does his grandson. There are also times when a people sacrificed too much. When a people must hold on to what we have, even against overwhelming opposition. What do you know about your family, Captain?
PICARD: Well, a great deal actually. My father was a strong believer in passing on the traditions and history of the family.
ANTHWARA: I would like to know more about your family. We have very strong ties to our ancestors. We believe their actions guide us even now. Knowing more about your family might help me to better understand you. Besides, it is always good to understand one's adversary in any negotiation.
PICARD: I hope that by the end of this matter, you will no longer look at me as an adversary. My family. Well, our roots in Western Europe go back to the time of Charlemagne.
WESLEY: I'm sorry I'm late.
CRUSHER: We'll talk about it later.
LAKANTA: Wesley Crusher?
WESLEY: Yes?
LAKANTA: I am Lakanta.
WESLEY: It's nice to meet you. Can I get you a drink or something.
LAKANTA: I have known that you were coming to us for the past two years. Two years ago, I went into the Habak and began a vision quest. While I was there I saw many things, talked to many animals, many spirits. And I saw you.
WESLEY: I don't think I understand.
LAKANTA: I know why you came to us, Wesley. To find the answers that you seek.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: I just don't know what to do, Jean-Luc. It's as if somebody took my son away and left this stranger in his place.
PICARD: But in a sense, that's exactly what happened. Wesley left the Enterprise three years ago he was a boy, and now he's returned a young man. And that can't be easy for a mother or a son.
CRUSHER: It's gone beyond just the two of us.
PICARD: Yes, I heard about the incident with Geordi.
CRUSHER: Have you heard what happened at the Academy? I called Admiral Brand today. She said his grades are dropping, that he's becoming remote and defensive. If he's not careful, he's going to wash out next term. Maybe you should talk to him, Jean-Luc. Maybe it's the kind of thing a boy, a man needs to discuss with another man.
PICARD: I don't think he wants either of us to talk to him right now.
CRUSHER: But he needs out help.
PICARD: Beverly, he's got to want that help. If he doesn't, then any efforts on our part can only push him further away. He's got to work this out for himself.

[Village]
WESLEY: How long have you been watching me?
LAKANTA: Since you beamed down.
WESLEY: Well, I'm here. What should I do?
LAKANTA: I don't know.
WESLEY: I thought you were going to help me find some answers.
LAKANTA: Answers to your questions.
WESLEY: Tell me about this Habak. You said you had some kind of a vision there?
LAKANTA: The Habak is holy to us. We hold our rituals and our ceremonies there. It's sacred to us. What's sacred to you, Wesley?
WESLEY: I don't know. I mean, I think a lot of things are important, I have a lot of respect for things. But I don't really consider anything sacred.
LAKANTA: Look around us. What do you think is sacred to us here?
WESLEY: Maybe the necklace you're wearing? The designs on the walls?
LAKANTA: Everything is sacred to us. The buildings, the food, the sky, the dirt beneath your feet. And you. Whether you believe in your spirit or not, we believe in it. You are a sacred person here, Wesley.
WESLEY: I think that's the first time anyone's used that particular word to describe me.
LAKANTA: So, if you are sacred, then you must treat yourself with respect. To do otherwise is to desecrate something that is holy.
WESLEY: Is that what you think I've been doing?
LAKANTA: Only you can decide that.
WESLEY: I guess I haven't had a lot of respect for myself lately.
LAKANTA: Then perhaps it's time for your own vision quest to begin.

[Meeting room]
PICARD: Anthwara, I deeply regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement. But, and I must be blunt, I cannot take no for an answer. This planet will be handed over to the Cardassian government in accordance with the terms of the border agreement. I am very sorry, but you will have to leave.
WAKASA: And if we do not?
PICARD: Then I will be forced to remove you by whatever means are necessary.
ANTHWARA: We know you will not take us from this land, Captain.
PICARD: I may regret doing it, but I am not able
ANTHWARA: When you first came to us, we did not know why you were sent by the Federation but we knew there must be a good reason. To us, nothing that happens is truly random. So we searched for the true reason you were sent. We did not find it until last night. Are you familiar with the Pueblo Revolt of sixteen eighty?
TROI: I am. Several Indian tribes rose up to overthrow their Spanish overlords and drove them out of what is now called New Mexico.
ANTHWARA: Ten years later, the Spanish returned to reconquer the area. They were brutal. I would use the word savage. They killed hundreds of our people. Thousands more were maimed. The name of one of the soldiers was Javier Maribona-Picard. Your ancestor.
PICARD: I'm not aware of this incident or of the man you named, and this happened seven hundred years ago. I do not see what bearing it can have
ANTHWARA: That is why you have come to us, to erase a stain of blood worn by your family for twenty three generations.

[Village]
PICARD: Mister Worf, what is going on?
WORF: We have unwelcome visitors, sir.
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise.
GUL EVEK: I am Gul Evek. What are all these people still doing here? The evacuation should be well underway by now.
PICARD: May I have a word with you, alone?
GUL EVEK: As you wish. Wait here.
PICARD: It was my understanding that there would be no Cardassian presence here for another six weeks. Your arrival here may have upset some very delicate negotiations.
GUL EVEK: Negotiations? The status of this planet has been settled. What are you negotiating?
PICARD: I would be very happy to explain that to you, but for now I must ask you and your men to leave immediately.
GUL EVEK: Captain, we have been sent here to perform a preliminary survey of all the buildings and equipment being left behind. I have no intention of leaving until our mission is complete.
PICARD: Very well. Complete your mission. But remember, this is Federation territory, Gul Evek, and until that changes, these people are under my jurisdiction and I will protect them.
GUL EVEK: Is that a threat?
PICARD: It's a fact. Bear that in mind while you conduct your survey.

[Habak]
LAKANTA: This is the Habak, the focal point of our lives. Strangers are not welcome here.
WESLEY: When I asked to come here, you said it would be
LAKANTA: You're not a stranger. I told you, I've seen you here before.
WESLEY: What are those figures?
LAKANTA: They are Mansara. Dolls that represent the different spirits that come to this place.
WESLEY: This one looks like a Klingon.
LAKANTA: Yes. Our culture is rooted in the past, but it's not limited to the past.
LAKANTA: The spirits of the Klingon, the Vulcan, the Ferengi come to us just as the bear and the coyote and the parrot. There's no difference.
WESLEY: What should I do?
LAKANTA: Start the fire. Then sit and wait.
WESLEY: What am I waiting for?
LAKANTA: This is your journey, Wesley. I can open the door, but only you can go through it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Admiral, the Indian Councils is adamant. They refuse to leave Dorvan Five.
NECHAYEV (screen): Is there any indication that the Tribal Council will change their position in the near future?
PICARD: No, sir.
NECHAYEV (screen): Then I see no other choice.
PICARD: Admiral, I have every reason to believe that they will resist any attempt to remove them. I strongly urge you to request an emergency session of the Federation Council. The issue of Dorvan Five must be reopened.
NECHAYEV (screen): Captain, I made that request two days ago. The answer was no. I'm sorry but you have your orders. Starfleet out.
RIKER: So much for your reprieve from Starfleet.
PICARD: Anthwara believes that I am responsible for the crimes of one of my ancestors against his people.
RIKER: Do you believe that?
PICARD: No, of course not. I respect his belief, but I do not see how it can have any bearing on this mission. But even so, I can't help wondering if a dark chapter in my family's history is about to be repeated. If those people take up arms against us, then I cannot foresee the consequences. Mister Worf, will you come in here for a moment?
WORF (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you begin preparations to remove the inhabitants from Dorvan Five.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Village]
JACK: Wesley.
WESLEY: Dad?
JACK: You've reached the end, Wesley.
WESLEY: The end of what?
JACK: This journey. The one you started a long time ago, when I left you and your mother.
WESLEY: You mean when you died.
JACK: You set out on a journey that wasn't your own. Now it's time to find a path that is truly yours. Don't follow me any further.
WESLEY: I don't understand.
JACK: Yes, you do. It's just hard for you to accept. Goodbye, Wesley, and good luck.
WESLEY: Dad, wait!

[Village]
WORF: Mister Crusher. Are you all right?
WESLEY: Yeah, Worf, I'm fine.
WORF: Lay out a confinement beam trace along the southeastern side of the village. Be discreet. We do not wish to alarm these people.
SECURITY: Yes, sir.
WESLEY: Worf, what are you doing?
WORF: We are laying out transporter coordinates for a security perimeter. It may be necessary to remove these people by force.
WESLEY: Worf, we can't do this. These people deserve better than to be removed from their homes.
WORF: I understand, but now is not the time or the place to
WESLEY: Do you know what they're trying to do? They're preparing to beam you away and take you to their ship. You're not going to let them do that, are you?
WAKASA: No, we won't. Leave now.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Inexcusable. You defied the orders of the ranking officer on the scene. You put the lives of the entire away team in jeopardy, and you made an already tense situation worse. Your actions reflect very badly on this ship and on that uniform. Now, I want an explanation, Mister Crusher, and I want it now.
WESLEY: What you're doing down there is wrong. These people are not some random group of colonists. They're a unique culture with a history that predates the Federation and Starfleet.
PICARD: That does not alter the fact that my orders are to
WESLEY: I know Admiral Necheyev gave you an order, and she was given an order from the Federation Council. But it's still wrong.
PICARD: That decision is not yours to make, Cadet. I don't know what has got into you lately, and frankly right now I don't care. But I will tell you this. While you wear that uniform, you will obey every order you're given and you will conform to Starfleet regulations and rules of conduct. Is that clear?
WESLEY: Yes, sir, it is. But I won't be wearing this uniform any longer. I'm resigning from the Academy.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER (voiceover): Gul Evek wants to meet with you to discuss the situation on the surface.
PICARD: Let him come aboard. I'll see him in here.
RIKER (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Why are you doing this?
WESLEY: I told you, Starfleet isn't for me.
CRUSHER: Look, I may not be able to stop you from throwing away your entire life, but you are going to stand here and explain it to me first. You owe me that much.
WESLEY: I saw Dad today. He told me not to follow him.
CRUSHER: You what?
WESLEY: I was participating in an Indian ritual and I had a vision. Dad came to me and told me not to follow him. He said I had to find my own path.
CRUSHER: Is that what this is all about? A vision told you to leave the Academy and now you're packing your bags?
WESLEY: No. No, it's more than that. I've known I've needed to do this for a long time. I just haven't been able to admit it to myself.
CRUSHER: But you always said that being at the Academy was the best thing that ever happened to you.
WESLEY: I know. For a while it was. But as time went on and graduation got closer, I started feeling really depressed. I thought maybe it was the workload or the stress of being away from home, but it didn't go away. It just got worse.
CRUSHER: Why didn't you ever say anything?
WESLEY: I didn't want to disappoint you or Captain Picard or my friends. You guys were all so proud of me.
CRUSHER: I'd be proud of you no matter what you were doing, Wesley. I love you.
WESLEY: I know, Mom. I guess the truth is that I was afraid of disappointing myself. I never questioned the fact that I'd be in Starfleet. But when Dad said not to follow him, it just made so much sense. Everything is so clear now.
CRUSHER: Maybe it is partly my fault. We didn't realized the kind of pressure we were putting on you to be exactly what we expected you to be
WESLEY: I don't blame you at all. It is my decision. It always has been.
CRUSHER: You know that alien from Tau Ceti, the one who could control warp fields with his mind?
WESLEY: The Traveler.
CRUSHER: He told Captain Picard a long time ago that you were very special, like Mozart, and that you were destined for something quite different from the rest of us. Maybe this is the first step. I love you.
WESLEY: I love you too, Mom.

[Village]
WAKASA: You shouldn't be here, Wesley.
WESLEY: Why?
INDIAN: Get down.
WAKASA: Bring them over here.
WORF: Why have you taken these men prisoner?
WAKASA: This is not their world. They have no right to be here.
WORF: The terms of the treaty gives them the right to survey this planet.
WAKASA: We don't recognize that treaty.
WORF: Worf to Picard. An armed group of Indians has taken two Cardassian prisoners. The situation is extremely volatile.

[Observation lounge]
WORF (voiceover): Request instructions.
PICARD: Stand by, Mister Worf. Have your ship lock on to your people and beam them out of there before something happens.
GUL EVEK: My people? What about these Indians of yours? They've taken hostages. This is our planet, Captain. We will not be chased away by some unruly crowd. Gul Evek to the Vetar.
TELAK (voiceover): This is Glin Telak aboard the Vetar. Go ahead.
GUL EVEK: Two of our men on the surface have been taken prisoner. Prepare to send an armed squad of troopers to rescue them and to occupy the village.
PICARD: Gul Evek, those people are Federation citizens and I am sworn to protect them. If your troops attack that village, my security forces will respond.
GUL EVEK: I hope you realize the consequences of Federation officers firing on Cardassian troops.
PICARD: Oh, yes, I do. That is why we must to stop this now, before it's too late.

[Village]
WORF: I cannot allow you to hold these men as prisoners.
WAKASA: You have no authority here.
WESLEY: No!
WESLEY: What happened? Did you do this?
LAKANTA: I didn't do anything. You did.
WESLEY: I did?
LAKANTA: You pulled yourself out of their time. You took the first step, Wesley.
WESLEY: My first step to where?
LAKANTA: To another plane of existence, another way of thinking.
WESLEY: I don't understand.
LAKANTA: You've found a new beginning for yourself. The first step on a journey that few humans will ever take.
WESLEY: Who are you? The Traveler.
TRAVELLER: I've been waiting a long time for this moment, Wesley.
WESLEY: So all those things I saw in the Habak, my father, and the things he said to me, that was your doing?
TRAVELLER: I merely opened the door for you. What you experienced came from your own mind, your own spirit if you wish. I hoped that you would open your mind to new possibilities, and you did. You pulled yourself out of time, don't you see? You've evolved to a new level you're ready to explore places where thought and energy combine in ways you can't even imagine. And I will be your guide, if you would like.
WESLEY: What about them? I can't just leave them like this.
TRAVELLER: They must find their own destinies, Wesley. It's not our place to interfere.
WESLEY: But
TRAVELLER: Have faith in their abilities to solve their problems on their own.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Cardassian ship is powering its weapons and it's transporters.
TELAK (voiceover): This is the Vetar to Gul Evek. Our troops are under attack. They're requesting immediate assistance. What are your orders?
PICARD: Evek, the last war caused massive destruction and cost millions of lives. Don't send our two peoples back down that same path again. Not like this. Now the future lies in your hands right now. Give us one last chance for peace.
TELAK (voiceover): Gul Evek! What are your orders? Can we open fire?
GUL EVEK: Evek to the Vetar. Lock on to our troops on the surface and beam them aboard.
TELAK (voiceover): But, sir, they've been fired upon.
GUL EVEK: Those are my orders! Carry them out.
TELAK (voiceover): Yes, sir.
PICARD: Beam up the away team immediately.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
GUL EVEK: I lost two of three sons in the war, Captain. I don't want to lose the last one.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Anthwara, I want to make absolutely sure that you understand the implications of this agreement. By giving up your status as Federation citizens, any future request you or your people make to Starfleet will go unanswered. You will be on your own and under Cardassian jurisdiction.
ANTHWARA: I understand, Captain. And we are prepared to take that risk. Will the Cardassian government honor your agreement here?
GUL EVEK: I believe I can convince them that this is an equitable solution. I cannot speak for every Cardassian you may encounter, but if you leave us alone I suspect that we will do the same. Will this be acceptable to the Starfleet Command?
PICARD: It will not be easy, but with Admiral Necheyev's support, I think they will go along with it in the end.
GUL EVEK: Then if there's nothing else, I will return to my ship. I have a rather long report to write. Captain. Anthwara.
ANTHWARA: I was right, Captain. You did not take us from our land and you have wiped clean a very old stain of blood.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47755.3. The Enterprise is preparing to leave Dorvan Five, but former cadet Wesley Crusher will be staying behind.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Where will you go?
WESLEY: The Traveler said that my studies would begin with these people. He said that they're aware of many things. I can learn a lot from them. That's just what I need. More studying.
CRUSHER: Somehow I think you'll manage.
WESLEY: Me, too.
PICARD: Well good luck, Mister. Good luck, Wesley.
WESLEY: Thank you. For a lot of things.
CRUSHER: Now you be sure and dress warmly on those other planes of existence.
WESLEY: I will. Bye, Mom.
CRUSHER: Goodbye.
PICARD: Energize.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: As time passes, a boy inevitably becomes a man. What is not inevitable, is that a man become a warrior. A warrior must be forged like a sword, tempered by, by, tempered by experience. The path of the warrior begins
WORF: Alexander.
ALEXANDER: No! Wait!
ERIC: Sorry. I didn't mean to hit you.
WORF: What is the meaning of this?
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry. We made fullerenes in chemistry class today and filled them with water.
WORF: I asked you to meet me here after school. I have been waiting for you.
ALEXANDER: I forgot.
WORF: You forgot because you allowed yourself to be distracted by foolishness.
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry.
WORF: There is something very important I want to discuss with you. It concerns your future. Sit. As time passes, a boy inevitably becomes a man, but what is not inevitable is that a man become a sword
ALEXANDER: What?
WORF: No. I meant warrior. The path of A warrior begins with the First Rite of Ascension.
ALEXANDER: Is that when they hit you with pain sticks?
WORF: No. No, that is the Second Rite.
ALEXANDER: Oh.
WORF: You are approaching the Age of Ascension. It is time for you to prepare for the ceremony.
ALEXANDER: What do I have to do?
WORF: Well, your fighting skills will be tested and your knowledge of the teachings of Kahless. It will be challenging, but I will help you prepare. These are the kor'tova candles. They represent the fire that burns within the heart of a warrior. When you light yours, you will be declaring your intention to become a warrior. Go ahead.
ALEXANDER: What if I don't want to?
WORF: If you do not participate in the rite before the age of thirteen years, you will never be able to become a true Klingon warrior.
ALEXANDER: Well I don't care about that.
WORF: You may not care about it now, but someday you might.
ALEXANDER: Mother always said that I didn't have to do any of this Klingon stuff if I didn't want.
WORF: It is your decision but
ALEXANDER: Okay then. I'm not going to do it.
WORF: Alexander.
ALEXANDER: You just said it was up to me. I don't want to be a warrior.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: As a result, we won't be able to rendezvous with the Kearsarge for another four days.
RIKER: Will we be holding position here until it arrives?
PICARD: Yes. And, as it would seem we're in for a relatively quiet time, I shall use this opportunity to visit the Hatarian System. There are some ancient ruins that are just being excavated.
DATA: The delay will also make it possible for Stellar Dynamics to complete their study of the Vodrey Nebula.
RIKER: I'll let them know they can have more access to the lateral sensor grid.
PICARD: We could use this time to recalibrate the weapon targeting array. Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir. I will begin the procedure immediately.
PICARD: Very good. Dismissed. Lieutenant, could I have a word with you for a moment?
PICARD: I noticed several times during the briefing that you appeared to be a bit distracted.
WORF: I apologize. In the future, I will make sure my personal affairs do not interfere with my duties.
PICARD: Is everything all right?
WORF: I am having problems with Alexander. He has made it clear he does not wish to participate in the First Rite of Ascension.
PICARD: Oh, I see.
WORF: I have tried to tell him that it is an important part of a young Klingon's life, but he does not understand.
PICARD: But he's had so little opportunity to spend time with Klingons. You know, the festival of Kot'baval is tomorrow. If he could take part in that, I'm sure he would more fully appreciate what a rich cultural heritage he comes from. There is the Klingon outpost on Maranga Four. I'm sure they'll be celebrating the festival.
WORF: Yes. But the outpost is on the other side of the Vodrey Nebula. It would take three days by shuttle to get there.
PICARD: The Enterprise could be there in a fraction of the time, and still be back in time for the rendezvous.
WORF: Captain, I cannot ask you
PICARD: Mister Worf, Stellar Dynamics would like nothing better than a trip around the nebula.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Maranga Outpost]
LAFORGE: Who's that?
WORF: It is the tyrant Molor. He was so strong no one could stand against him.
SINGER: Nok'tar be'got, hosh'ar te'not?
CRUSHER: What's he saying?
WORF: He is asking if anyone else will have the courage to stand up to Molor.
SINGER: Nok'tar be'got, hosh'ar te'not?
WORF: Ki'rok, Molor, ki'rok!
MOLOR: Ni'tokor bak'to! Ba'jak tu'mo!
WORF: O'tak tu'ro!
WORF: Nok'tar be'got? Hosh'ar te'not?
ALEXANDER: Ki'rok Molor, ki'rok!
MOLOR: What is this?
MOLOR: Jik'ta. You have wounded me.
WORF: You fought well.
ALEXANDER: What happens now?
WORF: There is only one man can stand against Molor.
SINGER: Nok'tar Kahless.
ALEXANDER: It's Kahless!
WORF: Kahless would rather die than live under Molor's tyranny.
ALEXANDER: Ni'lot Kahless!

[Maranga Outpost]
ALEXANDER: Father.
WORF: Where have you been?
ALEXANDER: We were watching the fire dancers.
WORF: We?
ALEXANDER: K'Nor and Bar'el. They live here on the outpost. I need some money.
WORF: What for?
ALEXANDER: The man over there says he's got Molor's head in a box. The real Molor.
WORF: That is impossible. The real Molor died centuries ago.
ALEXANDER: I know. It's mummified. He offered to show us for fifty darseks.
WORF: He is trying to take your money.
ALEXANDER: Please, Father. He's waiting.
WORF: No. It is late. We should go home.
ALEXANDER: But
WORF: Alexander, that is enough. Come, it is time to go.
ALEXANDER: I have to say goodbye to my friends.
WORF: You can see your friends again tomorrow.
ALEXANDER: We're coming back?
WORF: If you want to.
ROBBER: Hi'jak beh.
WORF: Run, Alexander.
K'MTAR: Ni'tokor bak'to!
K'MTAR: Q'apla, Worf. You are too much for them.
WORF: I have seen you before. Who are you?
K'MTAR: A friend.
WORF: Are you K'mtar.
K'MTAR: Your brother sent me here to protect you.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: He is gin'tak to the house of Mogh.
RIKER: Gin'tak?
WORF: An advisor so trusted that he is become part of a family.
RIKER: Do you have any idea who was behind the attack?
K'MTAR: It is a Klingon matter. It is not your concern.
RIKER: One of my officers was almost killed. That makes it my concern.
K'MTAR: Recently, rumors began to circulate on the homeworld that an assassination attempt was going to be made on the family of Mogh. Kurn sent me here to make sure nothing happened to Worf.
RIKER: Why didn't you warn him before the attack was made?
K'MTAR: I tried to contact him over subspace. I was told he was not aboard. I decided to beam directly to the surface.
RIKER: Why didn't you let us know about it?
K'MTAR: Forgive me for being blunt, Commander, but when it comes to protecting the house to which I have pledged my life, I trust no one.
WORF: I have full confidence in the officers with whom I serve. One of the attackers dropped this dagger. The design represents the house of Duras.
K'MTAR: We have other evidence that indicates the Duras sisters, Lursa and B'Etor, were behind the attack.
RIKER: What do you think they were after?
K'MTAR: Kurn's seat on the Council, of course.
WORF: We can not allow their attack on our house to go unanswered.
K'MTAR: First, we must to find them.
RIKER: At one point they were at Deep Space Nine, trying to sell bilitrium explosives.
K'MTAR: That was months ago. No one knows where they went from there.
RIKER: Maybe we can find them. We've arranged for quarters on the ship, if you'd like to stay.
K'MTAR: I would. Worf and I have much to discuss.

[Worf's quarters]
K'MTAR: I will send Kurn a message telling him what happened, but he will not receive it for days. He's gone to the Hitora colony
WORF: Why did you treat Commander Riker so disrespectfully? You were rude.
K'MTAR: I may have been rude by human standards. I meant no disrespect. What is the matter, Worf? Have you been living so long among humans that you have forgotten how Klingons behave?
WORF: I have not forgotten. I am merely stating that their ways our different than ours.
K'MTAR: I trust you have made your son aware of that fact as well.
WORF: Yes, of course I have.
K'MTAR: Good. Because someday Alexander may be called upon to lead the house of Mogh. Kurn has no male heir. He wants to make sure that Alexander is preparing himself.
WORF: Does my brother doubt my ability to raise my son as a Klingon?
K'MTAR: No. But you are alone among humans. It cannot be easy to keep our ways.
WORF: No. It has not been easy.
K'MTAR: How are his fighting skills? Can he handle a bat'leth?
WORF: He is learning. He could be better.
K'MTAR: He must. He's nearing the age of ascension.
WORF: Actually, Alexander has not yet committed himself to undergoing the Rite.
K'MTAR: What?
WORF: I have tried to explain to him how important it is, but he will not listen to me.
K'MTAR: Perhaps together, you and I can find a way to spark the boy's interest in his heritage.
WORF: I would be grateful for any help you could offer.
K'MTAR: Tomorrow, then.
WORF: Tomorrow.
K'MTAR: May I say goodnight to the boy?
WORF: Yes, of course.

[Alexander's room]
K'MTAR: Is this your mother?
ALEXANDER: Yes. She died when I was little.
K'MTAR: You miss her a great deal, don't you? It must be hard for you, being the only Klingon your age aboard this ship.
ALEXANDER: Sometimes.
K'MTAR: Have you ever been to the Homeworld?
ALEXANDER: No.
K'MTAR: I think you would like it there. At your uncle's house there is a lake you can swim in that is so clear you can see all the way to the bottom.
ALEXANDER: Really?
K'MTAR: You have cousins there. They want to meet you.
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
K'MTAR: I understand. You're afraid. You don't whether the Homeworld is safe.
ALEXANDER: Yes.
K'MTAR: What happened today on the planet is frightening. You're still troubled.
ALEXANDER: I thought they were going to kill my father.
K'MTAR: You must have wanted to help us fight them off.
ALEXANDER: I didn't know what to do.
K'MTAR: Someday, if you work hard, you will become a warrior. A Klingon warrior. And you will always feel safe because you will know how to defend yourself. And I'll tell you something else. If anyone ever tries to hurt your father again, you will be able to fight at his side and make sure nothing happens to him. What do you think of that? Goodnight, Alexander. Dream well.
ALEXANDER: Good night, K'mtar.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any luck?
DATA: Starfleet records contain no mention of the Duras sisters after their departure from Deep Space Nine.
K'MTAR: Did I not tell you as much?
RIKER: Have you been able to contact Deep Space Nine?
WORF: I am being patched through right now, sir.
RIKER: On screen. Quark. I see you remember me.
QUARK (screen): How could I forget the only man ever to win triple down dabo at one of my tables?
RIKER: And how could I forget that you didn't have enough latinum to cover my winnings?
QUARK (screen): I thought I explained that my brother had misplaced the key to the safe. Besides, those vouchers I gave you are every bit as good as latinum.
RIKER: Not exactly. You can spend latinum just about anywhere. Those vouchers are only good at your bar.
QUARK (screen): Is that what this is about? You're on your way and you're calling to reserve a holosuite program?
RIKER: Actually, I was hoping you could help me with something else.
QUARK (screen): What would that be?
RIKER: I'm looking for some Klingon friends of mine. The Duras sisters, Lursa and B'Etor?
QUARK (screen): Yes, Lursa and B'Etor. Big talk, small tips.
RIKER: Do you know where I can find them?
QUARK (screen): Well, I did hear a rumor, actually.
RIKER: What kind of rumor?
QUARK (screen): Oh, I don't know. I'm sure it was told to me in confidence.
RIKER: And how much would your confidence cost?
QUARK (screen): How many vouchers do you have, again?
RIKER: I have enough for twelve bars of latinum. I'd be glad to return them.
QUARK (screen): I believe the rumor was that the sisters were trying to buy some second hand mining equipment.
RIKER: What for?
QUARK (screen): They learned of a magnesite deposit on the Kalla system. It belongs to the Pakleds, but those fools don't even know it's there. Your, er, friends tried to get at it.
RIKER: All right. I'll send those vouchers to you.
QUARK (screen): Don't bother. I voided them while we've been talking.
RIKER: So long, Quark.
RIKER: How long would it take us to get to the Kalla system?
WORF: Approximately sixteen hours, sir.
K'MTAR: Could not he have been lying?
RIKER: Why would he? I'd just be knocking on his door again in a few days, and I wouldn't be in as good a mood.
K'MTAR: Congratulations, Commander. I did not think it would be possible to find the sisters.
RIKER: Take us out of orbit.
HELM: Aye, sir.

[Outside the holodeck]
K'MTAR: I took the liberty of creating a holodeck program.
WORF: What kind of program?
K'MTAR: I'll show you. Computer, run program K'mtar alpha one.
COMPUTER: Program initiated. Enter when ready.

[Holodeck - Maranga Outpost]
ALEXANDER: Why did you want to recreate this?
K'MTAR: You said you wished you had been able to help your father fight, but you did not know how. You have probably fought that battle over and over again in your mind.
ALEXANDER: Yes.
K'MTAR: Let's see what happens now.
K'MTAR: Computer, give me two Klingon warriors.
ALEXANDER: How can I fight someone that big?
K'MTAR: Size is not the most important thing. Skill, cunning, powers of observation are the most important weapons. Ni'tokor bak'to!
K'MTAR: Freeze program. Look what this ko'tal is doing. You see his leg? That will give a clue as to what his next move will be.
ALEXANDER: All his weight is on his right foot.
WORF: Yes, he is going to have to shift it to regain his balance.
K'MTAR: Stand ready. Computer, resume program.
K'MTAR: Po'tajg! Po'tajg! Finish him.
K'MTAR: Freeze program. You should have killed him when you had the chance.
WORF: Why did you not?
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
K'MTAR: Look at him! He did not care that you showed him mercy. He was going to kill you.
WORF: K'mtar, that is enough.
K'MTAR: If this was real, he'd be dead by now.
WORF: Alexander.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching Kalla Three.
RIKER: Set a standard orbit. Any evidence of a mining expedition?
WORF: A shaft has been cut through the outer crust. There is evidence of machinery, but it does not appear to be in use.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: It is difficult to say. The magnesite is interfering with bioreadings.
RIKER: Assemble an away team.

[Mine]
LAFORGE: Who are you?
GORTA: Gorta. I am Gorta.
WORF: What are you doing on this planet?
GORTA: I crashed here.
DATA: Then you are denying involvement in illegal mining activities?
GORTA: Mining? So that's what all this equipment is here for.
WORF: We are looking for two Klingon women. Sisters.
GORTA: Lursa? B'Etor? Do you know where they are?
LAFORGE: Actually we were hoping that you did.
GORTA: Maybe I do.
DATA: Would you be willing to share your information with us?
GORTA: My personal code of conduct prohibits sharing. But I'd consider a trade.
LAFORGE: Does your personal code of conduct tell you that when you're stranded on a planet with no way off, you shouldn't try to cut deals?
GORTA: You have a point.
DATA: We could certainly provide passage off this planet in exchange for information.
GORTA: Could you perhaps fail to tell the Pakleds that we were mining their ore?
LAFORGE: Don't push your luck. But if you get us to the Duras sisters, I'll see what I can do.
GORTA: The Duras sisters. They are magnificent, aren't they?
WORF: Where are they now?
GORTA: Selling the ore, I imagine. They took everything. The ore, the ship.
WORF: And where have they gone?
GORTA: We were going to sell the ore to a Yridian trader. We were supposed to meet him in the Ufandi system.
DATA: Gather your belongings. It is time to leave.
GORTA: Like I said, they took everything.

[Ten Forward]
K'MTAR: Worf. I am sorry about what happened. I should not have gotten so angry. It's just that I am worried about Alexander.
WORF: As am I.
K'MTAR: Kurn told me that his mother actively discouraged him exploring his Klingon heritage.
WORF: When he first came to live with me, he knew nothing of our ways. He often reminds me of things his mother said to him. I try not to disregard her wishes, I want the boy to honor his mother.
K'MTAR: Someday I'm sure he will appreciate you and be grateful for all that you have given him. But still, compared to other boys his age, his fighting skills are years behind.
WORF: Yes, I know. He does not put in the time it takes to learn the skills.
K'MTAR: I thought that you might consider sending him to the training Academy on Ogat. Your brother is an influential man. I'm sure he could see to it that Alexander was admitted.
WORF: Ogat?
K'MTAR: I am only thinking of what is best for the boy. There, he would learn our ways. He would live like a Klingon.
WORF: I would like him to learn our ways. No. This is his home.
K'MTAR: How can you expect him to lead our family when all he knows is life aboard a Federation starship?
WORF: He is my son. He belongs with me.
K'MTAR: The boy is more human than Klingon. If he stays here, he will never be a warrior. He will never be able to defend our family against its enemies.
WORF: Enough! Enough! Enough! The decision is mine.
K'MTAR: Not necessarily. I would be well within my rights to invoke ya'nora kor.
WORF: You would question my fitness to raise my own son?
K'MTAR: For the good of our house, yes. Worf, I beg of you. Please stop thinking of yourself. It is Alexander we should be considering. Look into your heart and do what is best for him.

[Worf's quarters]
K'MTAR: Kahless was determined to teach his brother a lesson because he had told a lie. But Morath refused to fight him and instead ran away. Kahless pursued him across the valleys, over the mountains, and down to the edge of the sea. And there on the shore, they fought for
ALEXANDER: Twelve days, twelve nights. I know, I've heard this story before.
K'MTAR: Alexander, it is important to tell these stories, even if we already know them.
ALEXANDER: Why was Kahless so mad about the lie his brother told?
K'MTAR: It made him look like a coward.
ALEXANDER: If Kahless would have just explained what happened, maybe they wouldn't have had to fight about it.
K'MTAR: You're missing the point.
ALEXANDER: Why was it so wrong for Morath to run away? Maybe he didn't want to fight his brother because he didn't want to have to kill him.
K'MTAR: He ran because he was a coward.
ALEXANDER: But how do you know that's why?
K'MTAR: No more questions! These are our stories. It is important for a warrior to learn how to interpret them properly.
ALEXANDER: I'm trying to
K'MTAR: No, your head is filled with foolish human notions about the way things are. You are Klingon. It is time you began to act like one.
ALEXANDER: I am part human, too.
K'MTAR: Listen to me, Alexander. When a human looks at you, he does not see himself. He sees a Klingon.
ALEXANDER: It doesn't matter what I look like.
K'MTAR: It does. You are different than everyone else aboard this ship.
ALEXANDER: That's not true.
K'MTAR: It is. The only way that you will ever feel as if you truly belong, is to leave here and go live with your own kind. I know a Klingon school you could go to. You would be welcome there. They would teach you how to be a warrior, prepare you for the Rite of Ascension.
ALEXANDER: I don't know if I want to do that.
K'MTAR: After you were there a while you would find that you wouldn't want to do anything else.
ALEXANDER: I don't want to leave the Enterprise.
K'MTAR: Alexander, you must. Everything depends on it.
ALEXANDER: I thought you were different. I thought you understood me. But you don't. You're just like my Father. All you care about is me becoming a warrior. Just leave me alone! First Officer's log, stardate 47779.4. We've entered the Ufandi system, where we believe the Duras sisters might have come to sell the ore they mined on Kalla Three.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am detecting a vessel holding position near the third planet. It is a Yridian freighter.
RIKER: Put it on screen. Scan for magnesite in its hold.
DATA: The resonance signature indicates that there is magnesite ore present.
RIKER: Then we're too late. The sisters have already been here.
TROI: Somehow I doubt the Yridians are going to be forthcoming about where they might have gone.
DATA: Sir, readings indicate that there are only five hundred kilograms of ore in the Yridian hold.
WORF: There should be over ten thousand kilograms.
RIKER: That's odd. Hail them. I'm Commander William Riker from the Federation Starship Enterprise.
YOG (screen): I am Yog. Why are we speaking?
RIKER: Our sensors indicate that you're carrying magnesite ore.
YOG (screen): Magnesite, yes.
RIKER: Where did you get it?
YOG (screen): From a Corvallen. For a good price.
RIKER: Where is this Corvallen now? I'm under orders to acquire some magnesite.
YOG (screen): He is gone. Where? Who is to know?
RIKER: Would you be interested in selling me the ore you're carrying?
YOG (screen): No, I have a buyer.
RIKER: You haven't heard my offer. Half a gram of Anjoran biomimetic gel.
YOG (screen): Done.
RIKER: Once we verify the purity of your ore, we'll beam over the gel.
TROI: You're up to something.
RIKER: Have the transporter room beam the ore to these coordinates.
DATA: Sir, that would place the ore directly off the ship's starboard bow.
RIKER: I know.
WORF: Transport complete.
RIKER: Lock phasers on the ore and fire.
WORF: Firing.
WORF: A Klingon bird of prey.
RIKER: Put a tractor beam on it.
TROI: How did you know?
RIKER: The Yridians had only part of the shipment in their hold. I realized we had arrived before they had completed the transfer.
WORF: The Klingon ship is hailing us.
RIKER: On screen.
LURSA (screen): Release our vessel at once!
RIKER: I don't think so.
B'ETOR (screen): We've done nothing wrong. We were engaging in a simple business transaction.
RIKER: We know you're dealing in stolen ore. But I want to talk about the assassination attempt on Lieutenant Worf.
B'ETOR (screen): What assassination attempt? This is the first I've heard of it.
LURSA (screen): Too bad it didn't succeed.
RIKER: We have evidence that you're behind it.
LURSA (screen): That is outrageous.
B'ETOR (screen): What is this evidence?
RIKER: Beam over. We'll show you.
B'ETOR (screen): We'll be there. Shortly.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: This was dropped by one of the assassins. It bears the crest of your house.
B'ETOR: Ge'ko kaf'la.
LURSA: Someone must have given it to the assassins to implicate us.
TROI: Why would someone do that?
B'ETOR: In order to tarnish our good name.
WORF: You cannot tarnish a rusted blade.
LURSA: Ji'ko to'val!
WORF: Gir'nak tovo'sor!
RIKER: Mister Worf. You said there was other evidence they were involved.
K'MTAR: Yes. On the Homeworld.
RIKER: We'll set a course. I want this thing cleared up.
K'MTAR: I will send a message to Kurn. He may wish to return to the Homeworld as well.
B'ETOR: Bet'ala nog'tor.
LURSA: Impossible.
TROI: What is it?
B'ETOR: These markings represent the members of our house. This symbol represents our father, myself, my sister. And this represents her son.
WORF: I was not aware you had a son.
LURSA: I do not. But I am with child.
B'ETOR: She found out only a few days ago and told no one but me. How can this marking be here? Where did this come from?
WORF: I will speak with K'mtar.

[Worf's quarters]
K'MTAR: Father. Stop, I am your son. I am Alexander.
WORF: What are you saying?
K'MTAR: I am your son Alexander. I have come to this time from forty years in the future.
WORF: P'tak! Tell me the truth or I will kill you.
K'MTAR: Look at me. When we first met you said I looked familiar.
WORF: I could have seen you on the Homeworld.
K'MTAR: No. Look closely. I am your son.
WORF: If you are Alexander, you will remember your mother's last words before she died.
K'MTAR: I was three years old. She was dying when we found her. She barely managed to whisper my name and then she took my hand and placed it in yours. Then she died. And then you howled in rage and said, look upon her. Look upon death and always to remember. And I always have.
WORF: How have you done this, come to this time?
K'MTAR: I met a man in the Cambra system. He gave me a chance to change the past. He had the ability to send me here, to this time.
WORF: And you came here in order to end your own life?
K'MTAR: I was hoping that I would not have to, that I could change things, that I could change myself. But I could not. And now everything is going to turn out like it did before. I cannot let that happen.
WORF: But why? What is going to happen that is so terrible?
K'MTAR: You will be killed because I was naive, too weak to be able to protect you.
WORF: I do not believe that.
K'MTAR: I was there! I saw you murdered. I was to blame.
WORF: You must not blame yourself.
K'MTAR: You don't understand. I did not become a warrior. I was a diplomat, a peacemaker. When it came my time to lead our family, I thought that I could single handedly end the fighting between the great houses. I publicly announced that the house of Mogh would be the first to end the feuding. That there would be no more retribution, no more revenge. You tried to warn me. You tried to tell me that I should not show weakness, but I thought you were a foolish old man. I told you that you were a relic from an earlier time and that a new era of peace was at hand. But you were right. My enemies saw my weakness and moved against me. And unless I stop it right now, that boy will see his father killed on the floor of the Council Chamber.
WORF: That is why you wanted to take Alexander away. To turn him into a warrior.
K'MTAR: I staged the assassination attempt to try and frighten him, to make him realize that he must follow the ways of the warrior. If I had listened to you, if I had become the warrior that you had wanted me to be, you would not have died in my arms.
WORF: No. Who knows what the future will be now that you have disrupted time? I may die tomorrow or I may outlive you. But when I die, I would like an honorable death. And the only way that is possible is for you accept yourself as you are, and stay true to what you believe. The cause of peace is a just cause. The struggle must continue.
K'MTAR: It is a futile struggle. I cannot change things.
WORF: You have already changed things more than you realize.
K'MTAR: The boy I was has not changed.
WORF: But I have. You have given me a glimpse into my son's future and I know now that he has his own destiny. And I believe it will be a great one.
K'MTAR: I love you, Father.
WORF: And I you, Alexander.

[Holodeck - Maranga Outpost]
ALEXANDER: I've been waiting. Where's K'mtar?
WORF: He had to leave. He was called away.
ALEXANDER: He never said goodbye.
WORF: He asked me to say goodbye for him. He also wanted me to tell you, no matter what happens, no matter what you decide to do with your life, he will always care for you a great deal.
ALEXANDER: When will I see him again?
WORF: It may be a long time.
ALEXANDER: Well, we should start practice.
WORF: Alexander. There will be plenty of time for training.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: There's an object of some kind closing in on our position.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: It appears to be an unmanned probe approximately one half meter in diameter. There are no identifiable armaments.
WORF: Captain, we are being, You are being hailed, by name.
PICARD: Open a channel. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard
WORF: Captain, I am reading a power surge.
RIKER: Shields up.
DATA: The beam appears to contain holographic imaging information.
RIKER: It's trying to project something.
PICARD: Isolate the bandwidth. Let the signal through the shields.
PICARD: Bok!
BOK: I trust you remember me, Picard, because I haven't forgotten you or how you murdered my son. For fifteen years now I've thought about how to avenge his death but nothing I could do to you could equal what you did to me, until now. You thought you could hide him from me, didn't you? But I found out about him. Jason Vigo is as good as dead. I'm going to kill your son, Picard, just like you killed mine.
PICARD: Mister Worf, put a tractor beam on that probe. Determine if it's safe to beam it aboard. I want to know where it came from. Mister Data, see if there is any mention of a Jason Vigo in Federation records. You might start with Miranda Vigo. She was born on New Gaul about fifty years ago.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, contact the Ferengi Government. Find out all you can about Bok. He was wearing a DaiMon's uniform. If he's regained his rank, I want to know why.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The Ferengi Government is debating an amendment to the Rules of Acquisition. It could be a while before we hear from them. Data found out that the woman you mentioned has a son named Jason. This is the most recent picture we could find.
PICARD: How old is the boy now?
RIKER: Twenty three. He and his mother left Earth twelve years ago. They settled on Camor Five. That's all we know. The planet's records are virtually non-existent.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Set a course for the Camor system, warp five.
HELM (voiceover): Aye, sir.
PICARD: Will, I do appreciate your not asking, but I do think that you have a right to know. There is a possibility that the boy is my son. I was involved with his mother for a short time about twenty four years ago. We met through a friend when I was on shore leave on Earth. It was all very romantic, very intense, probably because we both knew I would be leaving in two weeks. And we kept in touch for a while, but we never managed to get together again.
RIKER: She never said anything to you about being pregnant?
PICARD: No, so either Bok is wrong and I'm not the father, or Miranda decided to raise the child alone, which quite frankly wouldn't surprise me. She was very independent, very strong willed.
RIKER: She would have to be to get by on Camor Five.
PICARD: But whether he's my son or not, he's in danger. Bok tried to kill me six years ago, and I don't doubt he will try to make good his threat against the boy.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Anything?
WORF: There are no Ferengi vessels within range of our scanners.
DATA: Captain, I am unable to find any information on Jason Vigo's current whereabouts.
PICARD: What about his mother?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Miranda was trained as a botanist. She always used to talk about running a farm one day. Maybe we should concentrate on the agricultural areas.
DATA: That would significantly narrow our search. The only cultivated land is on the southern continent, and there are relatively few people engaged in agricultural activities.
PICARD: There cannot be many non-Camorites among them. Scan for human life signs.
DATA: I am detecting eight humans. Three are female. However, they are all too young to be Miranda Vigo.
PICARD: What about males?
DATA: One is an infant. Another is elderly. Two are middle aged.
PICARD: That's seven. You said there were eight.
DATA: I am having difficulty getting a clear reading on the eighth. The individual appears to be approximately two kilometers beneath the planet's surface.
PICARD: Male or female?
DATA: Male, between twenty and thirty years old.
RIKER: No one in their right mind would go that far underground alone.
PICARD: Unless he were forced to.
WORF: Captain, I am reading seismic instability in the area. He is in danger.
PICARD: Relay his coordinates to the transporter room. Have them beam him aboard.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
JASON: What the? This is a Federation ship.
PICARD: That's right. I'm Captain Picard. Jean-Luc Picard.
JASON: I realize I wasn't supposed to be spelunking that cave, but don't you have something better to do?
PICARD: We thought you were at risk.
JASON: Oh. Well, I wasn't, so maybe you should just beam me back where I was?
PICARD: Are you Jason Vigo?
JASON: I, er, I know him. Is he in trouble?
PICARD: In a manner of speaking. Someone has made a threat against his life. Jason, I'm an old friend of your mother's. I'm here because you're in danger.
JASON: Why would anybody want to kill me?
PICARD: The person who has made the threat is under the impression that you are my son.
JASON: Am I?
PICARD: I don't know.
JASON: My mother never told me who my father was. Just that he was in Starfleet.
PICARD: Maybe we should contact her.
JASON: She died a few years ago.
PICARD: Oh, I'm sorry. Jason, I think it's important that we find out one way or another. Would you be willing to permit a genetic test?
JASON: If I'm not your son, is this person still going to want to kill me?
PICARD: I doubt it.
JASON: In that case, you won't mind my saying that I hope you're not my father.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: What were you doing in the caves, Jason? Are you a seismologist?
JASON: No, I just enjoy climbing.
PICARD: Without an antigrav harness?
JASON: No, they get in the way.
PICARD: So, what do you do?
JASON: I'm between jobs right now.
PICARD: I see.
CRUSHER: Excuse me, gentlemen, the test results are ready if you'd like to hear them. Your genetic code is a cross between the DNA of your mother, Miranda Vigo, and your father Jean-Luc Picard.

[Picard's quarters]
JASON: What's all this?
PICARD: Oh, theses are archeological fragments that I've collected over the years. This is a Silvan glyph stone. And this, this is a Gorlan prayer stick. It's really quite rare.
JASON: Is it valuable?
PICARD: Not really. Only to students of archeology such as myself. Though I did have to hand over a bottle of very old Saurian brandy for it.
JASON: I'd say you got taken.
PICARD: Perhaps, but it's of value to me nonetheless.
JASON: On Camor, something has value if you can eat it or sell it. Everything else is luxury.
PICARD: Would you like some tea?
JASON: No. Thanks.
PICARD: Something else?
JASON: No.
PICARD: Tea, Earl Gray, hot. I'm sure this whole thing is as much a surprise to you as it is to me. I really want to be honest with you, Jason. I only knew your mother for a very short time. I would have liked to have known her better. It just didn't work out that way. You look a lot like her, you know. It's the eyes, I think. I would like to make one thing clear, Jason. Your mother never told me about you. If she had, I would have been part of your life.
JASON: Maybe that's not what she wanted. I think I'd like to go back to the surface now.
PICARD: I think it would be better if you stayed on board the Enterprise until we have resolved this situation with Bok.
JASON: What is the situation with Bok, anyway? Why does he want me dead?
PICARD: Years ago, I was forced to destroy a starship commanded by his son. Bok apparently feels that it would be fitting vengeance to kill my son.
JASON: I can't hide forever.
PICARD: Of course not. We are trying to locate Bok now. I want to confront him, settle this matter.
JASON: How long is this going to take?
PICARD: I assure you there is no one more eager to put this behind us than I am.
JASON: Where do I stay?
PICARD: We'll get you some quarters.
JASON: Okay. Let's go.
PICARD: Jason. Your being here? I hope it will give us the chance to get to know each other.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We managed to shut down the probe's power systems so we could beam it aboard. It's not going to be easy to figure out where this thing came from.
DATA: Bok took the precaution of encrypting the probe's navigational systems so that we would be unable to decipher its flight path.
LAFORGE: We ran an analysis of the probe's hull. From the energy signatures and particle deposits we found, it looks like it traveled through a dichromic nebula, was exposed to an intensive gravimetric distortion, and passed within one light year of a class four pulsar.
DATA: Those phenomena are relatively common. We would need to identify at least one of them specifically in order to postulate a flight path.
PICARD: Understood.
DATA: Captain, incoming message from DaiMon Birta.
PICARD: Put it on screen. Thank you for taking the time to talk to us, DaiMon.
BIRTA (screen): I understand you have a problem.
PICARD: Yes, it concerns DaiMon Bok.
BIRTA (screen): Bok is no DaiMon. He was relieved of command six years ago. He was unstable, dangerous. We had to confine him to Rog Prison.
PICARD: But he's no longer there?
BIRTA (screen): He was able to buy himself out about two years ago.
PICARD: I see. Do you know his whereabouts now?
BIRTA (screen): I understand he was seen in the Dorias cluster not too long ago.
PICARD: But that cluster consists of more than twenty star systems.
BIRTA (screen): You don't have to thank me, Captain.
LAFORGE: Believe it or not, Captain, that might've given us the fix we needed. There's a nebula in the Dorias cluster that matches the same particle signature we found on the probe.
DATA: There is a class four pulsar three light years from the nebula. My calculations indicate the probe was launched in the Xendi Kabu system.
PICARD: Plot a course. Take us out of orbit.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, come in.
PICARD: I think I need to talk to a parent.
CRUSHER: So, what's he like?
PICARD: I'm not sure that I can tell you. He puts up so many barriers I have no idea what's underneath.
CRUSHER: Keep in mind he's had twenty years to be angry that his father wasn't there. It's going to take some time to get over those feelings. But I do think it's possible.
PICARD: Perhaps. But surely it would be wrong to force the issue. My sense is that he's a very independent young man. Perhaps it would be best if I left him alone. Let him come to me if he wants to.
CRUSHER: Maybe you're right. But I think you should consider this. Are you doing the best thing for Jason or what's easiest for you?

[Jason's quarters]
JASON: Yeah?
TROI: Hello, Jason. I'm Deanna Troi, Ship's Counselor.
JASON: Come in. Did Captain Picard ask you to come talk to me?
TROI: No, I just thought I'd come and see how you were doing. A lot's happened in the last few hours. I thought you might like to talk about it.
JASON: I'll be all right. People have wanted to kill me before.
TROI: But you've never met your father before.
JASON: And I have to admit I never thought I would.
TROI: It must be somewhat overwhelming.
JASON: I'm a little shaky.
TROI: Well, that's only natural.
JASON: But you know what? I feel better already just talking to you.
TROI: So, how did you feel about the Captain, about your father?
JASON: He's okay. A little stiff. But where are you from?
TROI: I was born on Betazed.
JASON: Do all the women there have eyes like yours?
TROI: Look Jason, I came here to talk to you because I'm the Ship's Counselor. If you don't want to talk to me in that way, then I think I should go.
JASON: Fine.
TROI: You're welcome to make an appointment to come by my office.
JASON: Maybe I'll do just that.

[Picard's quarters]
BOK: Picard, can you hear me?
BOK: I will kill him, Picard. And there's nothing you can do about it.
PICARD: Security to Captain's quarters immediately.

[Engineering]
WORF: Our shields were up. How could he have beamed through them?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure he did. Sensors don't show any sign of an intruder.
PICARD: Could it have been another hologram?
LAFORGE: I don't think so, Captain. Something has to generate a hologram. We would have detected it.
PICARD: Bok once used a mind control device to make me hallucinate.
LAFORGE: That device emitted a very specific energy signature. I'm not reading anything like that.
WORF: Could he have modified the device so he could use it without being detected?
LAFORGE: It's possible. I'll recalibrate the sensors to scan for low intensity transmissions. Just to be sure, I'll sweep your quarters with a resonance scanner.
PICARD: Good. Keep me posted.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want you to assign a security detail to Jason.
WORF: And what about yourself?
PICARD: I am not the target of Bok's threats. Jason is.
DATA: Captain, I have compiled all available records pertaining to Jason Vigo's criminal record, and
PICARD: Criminal record?
DATA: Yes, sir. He has been charged three times with petty theft, twice for disorderly conduct, and several dozen times for trespassing.
PICARD: Trespassing?
DATA: I believe the charges relate to his climbing activities in the caves underneath the planet's surface. This is the information you requested, is it not?
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Ten Forward]
JASON: What was your name again?
RHODES: Lieutenant Rhodes.
JASON: Actually, I meant your first name.
RHODES: Sandra.
JASON: Well, Sandra, do you think you could give me some room?
RHODES: We're supposed to be keeping an eye on you.
JASON: Can't you can keep an eye on me from over there?
PICARD: Good morning.
JASON: I thought you said your ship was the safest place I could be. Why the guards?
PICARD: Because Bok appeared in my quarters last night. Now, it might not have been him. It may have been an image. We're investigating.
JASON: Look, why don't you just drop me off somewhere. I can watch out for myself.
PICARD: That wouldn't be wise.
JASON: I've been doing it since I was fifteen.
PICARD: I'm sure you have, but Bok is a dangerous creature. He has a starship, he has technology.
JASON: All right, all right. I'll stay here.
PICARD: You seem to like rock climbing. The holodeck can create some very challenging climbs. We could go down together and I could show you how to use the program.
JASON: Thanks, but I think I can figure it out myself.
PICARD: Perhaps we could climb together. I'm probably not as skilled as you, but I'm not inexperienced.
JASON: Look, I'm sorry. I appreciate what you're trying to do. But Captain. Captain, father, Jean-Luc, I don't know what I'm supposed to call you. As soon as this thing with Bok is over, I'm leaving. So don't you see? There really isn't any point in our getting acquainted. Let me know as soon as you catch him, all right?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47829.1. We've been in the Xendi Kabu system for over three hours, and still no sign of Bok.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am detecting an object five thousand kilometers off our starboard bow. It is another probe.
PICARD: Why didn't we detect it before?
WORF: It must have been cloaked, sir. It came out of nowhere.
PICARD: On screen. Is it another holographic device?
DATA: I do not believe so, sir.
WORF: Captain, the probe's systems are overloading.
RIKER: Red alert. Shields up!
RIKER: Damage report.
WORF: No damage, sir.
DATA: Captain, I do not believe it was meant as an attack, but rather as a message.
PICARD: A message?
DATA: Yes, sir, in B'zal, a Ferengi code which uses an alternating pattern of light and darkness.
PICARD: Can you translate it?
DATA: I am attempting to do so. The message reads, my revenge is at hand.
PICARD: He's proved that he can get to us whenever he wants. Why doesn't he do something?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Tea, Earl Gray, hot.
BOK: If you want me to stay and talk, you'd better not call for security this time. How do you like your boy, Captain? Is he everything you'd always hoped for?
PICARD: It's a risky game you're playing, coming here. Next time we'll be ready for you. Why don't we settle this now?
BOK: Oh, and how do you propose to do that, Picard? You murdered my son.
PICARD: It was self-defense. He fired on my ship.
BOK: You were in Ferengi space!
PICARD: I didn't know that. If he'd told me I would have withdrawn. I'm sorry, but there's nothing I can do to bring him back.
BOK: How touching. Your apology is worthless to me. I demand that you repay me for my loss.
PICARD: You cannot put a price on a life.
BOK: Oh, but you can, Picard. You can pay me with your son's life.
PICARD: No.
BOK: You don't have any choice. I insist on being paid.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: That should do it. Let's run a level three bioscan just to be sure.
RHODES (voiceover): Rhodes to Sickbay, Medical emergency, deck nine, section four.
CRUSHER: Let's go.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Have you had any other seizures like this before?
JASON: No, not really. Sometimes my hand shakes, but never this bad.
CRUSHER: When did it first start to happen?
JASON: About few months ago. Do you have any idea what's wrong with me?
CRUSHER: You have a condition called the Forrester Trent syndrome. It's a degenerative neurological disorder. Very rare.
PICARD: What do you mean degenerative?
CRUSHER: If it goes untreated, it could result in paralysis, even death. I'm going to start you on a neuro-stabilization regimen. If we're lucky, it will halt the degeneration, and maybe reverse its effects. The disease is hereditary. I know your father doesn't have it. Was your mother prone to these seizures?
JASON: Not that I know of.
CRUSHER: There have been some cases reported where the disease was instigated by a random mutation. I'll run a microcellular scan and see if that's what happened. In the meantime, I want you to try to take it easy and get some rest.
PICARD: Is he going to be all right?
CRUSHER: I wish I could say for certain, but I'm not sure how he'll respond to treatments.
PICARD: I've been thinking about what you said the other day, and you know, I think you were right. I had convinced myself that Jason didn't want me to reach out to him.
CRUSHER: You know, I don't think anyone is born knowing how to be a parent. You just sort of figure it out as you go. But the one quality that tends to be a requirement for parenthood is patience.
PICARD: Well, I'm not sure that that is going to be enough. I've found out that Jason has a criminal record. It's nothing very serious, it's only petty theft and so forth, but I can't help feeling that if I had been part of his life then he wouldn't be so troubled now.
CRUSHER: Maybe, but why waste time blaming yourself for not having been there? Just be here for him now.
PICARD: And be patient.
CRUSHER: And be patient.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: We think we've found something, Captain.
DATA: Bok was in direct contact with this chair for an extended period. It is showing a distinctive subspace signature as a result.
LAFORGE: We think he's using some sort of subspace transporter to beam aboard the Enterprise.
PICARD: My understanding is that such devices were impractical.
DATA: The Federation abandoned its research in the field because the technology was found to be unreliable, as well as energy intensive.
LAFORGE: In order to transport matter through subspace, you have to put it into a state of quantum flux. It's very unstable.
PICARD: What range would that kind of transporter have?
DATA: In theory it could operate over several light years.
LAFORGE: That means that the probe that exploded could have been beamed into position from some point outside sensor range.
DATA: If Bok uses his transporter again, we might be able to trace the subspace signature and locate his ship.
PICARD: Is there any way we can keep Bok from beaming aboard the Enterprise again?
LAFORGE: I don't think there is.
PICARD: If he has the ability to beam aboard, he may be able to beam someone away.
DATA: It is a possibility.
PICARD: I'm concerned that he may try to take Jason. Is there any way we can protect him?
LAFORGE: You know, we might be able to keep a signal lock on him at all times. If Bok tries to beam him away, we might be able to hold him here.
DATA: In order to do so, we would need to tie the ship's subspace field coils into the transporter system.
PICARD: Make it so. Computer, where is Jason Vigo?
COMPUTER: Jason Vigo is in holodeck four.

[Holodeck - rock face]
PICARD: Would you wait outside?
JASON: Not bad.
PICARD: I like climbing. There's something about actually having your fate in your own hands.
JASON: Yeah, I know.
PICARD: It looks as though we may have found out how to locate Bok's ship. This could all soon be over.
JASON: You came all the way up here just to tell me that?
PICARD: I thought it would make you feel better.
JASON: Thanks. That was nice of you.
PICARD: Jason, when your mother and I parted, I lost track of her completely. But I would like to know more about what happened to her, if you wouldn't mind telling me.
JASON: Like what?
PICARD: Well, how did you end up on Camor? It's an unlikely place for a woman and child.
JASON: Well, you know how she was. See a stray cat, take it in. See somebody cold, give them your coat.
PICARD: Yes, that was Miranda, all right.
JASON: She heard about the all children on Camor who'd been orphaned from the Cardassian war.
PICARD: Oh. I see.
JASON: I was only ten when we went there. I remember her telling me all about the boys and girls who didn't have anybody to take care of them. So she got this big house, practically falling apart, then she started rounding up children. Eventually, there were over forty of us there. She called it a school. You know, she got up before dawn every day and went to bed well after midnight. In between she never stopped working. She taught us all how to read. And she grew vegetables in hardpan to feed us. And she made sure we knew how to sing. It's important in a place like Camor. And then one day she was attacked by two men in the street in broad daylight for the food she was carrying. If she'd just given it to them, they probably wouldn't have hurt her. But she knew how important the food was to us. So they killed her.
PICARD: I'm so sorry.
JASON: Don't be sorry for me. My mother made sure that we were all tough enough to make it.
PICARD: Jason, isn't there some way that I can be a father to you? My own father and I were estranged. He wanted me to stay home and tend the vineyards and I wanted to join Starfleet. And he died before we could come to terms with that. And I've regretted that all of my life. I don't want the same thing to happen to you and me.
JASON: You don't understand. I'm not anybody you'd want for a son. Trust me, if you knew anything about me, you wouldn't be trying so hard.
PICARD: You're so wrong.
JASON: Oh, really? Let me spell it out for you. I've been in trouble since I was a teenager. I lie, I steal, I use people. I'm a criminal. That's what your son is.
PICARD: I know.
JASON: You do?
PICARD: Oh, yes, I know all about your troubles with the Camor authorities.
JASON: You do.
PICARD: It doesn't make any difference, Jason. You're still my son. And, like it or not, I'm your father. I don't know what that means, but it means something. There's some connection.
JASON: Yeah.
PICARD: But one thing is clear. You'll never look at your hairline again in the same way.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: You wanted to see me.
CRUSHER: Yes. It's about Jason. I've finished the microcellular scan I was running. There's something you need to know,

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, sensors are detecting a subspace carrier wave headed for the ship. Its signature is consistent with Bok's transporter.
RIKER: See if you can trace and locate Bok's ship. Geordi, are you ready down there?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I've got a signal lock on Jason.
RIKER: Riker to Picard.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER (voiceover): Bok is trying to use his transporter.

[Bridge]
DATA: The transporter beam is focusing on deck nine, section four.
RIKER: Jason's quarters.
LAFORGE (voiceover): I'm on it, Commander.
RHODES (voiceover): Security to Bridge. Bok is

[Jason's quarters]
RHODES: Beaming Jason off the ship.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Initiating transport now. I'm losing his signal.
LAFORGE: Bok is re-establishing his lock on him.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Have you been able to locate Bok's ship?
DATA: No, sir. The subspace signature left by his transporter is decaying more rapidly than predicted. It may not be possible to trace it.
WORF: Captain, another probe has materialized five hundred kilometers to starboard. It is sending a transmission.
PICARD: Put it on screen.
BOK (screen): This is a very special day, Picard. Fifteen years ago you took my son away from me. Today, I will take your son away from you. It will be our anniversary. I wanted you to see him one last time.
DATA: I am tracing the transporter beam Bok used to send the probe. The ship is holding position approximately three hundred billion kilometers from here.
PICARD: Plot a course. Maximum warp.
RIKER: Even at warp nine we wouldn't get there for another twenty minutes.
PICARD: The modifications you made to the transporter. Is there any way we could use a subspace transport from here to get me onto Bok's ship?
DATA: It may be possible, sir, but it would not be advisable.
PICARD: I'll take that as a yes. You're with me.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: There. I've aligned the field coils.
DATA: Phase dampers are in synch. Standing by to modulate the transport pattern.
LAFORGE: Captain, we might be able to get you over there, but I don't see how we're going to get you back.
PICARD: We'll deal with that when the time comes.
LAFORGE: Transport's going to take longer than normal. We have to shunt your pattern through the subspace field coils.
PICARD: Understood.
DATA: Initiating transport sequence now.

[Ferengi Bridge]
JASON: Maybe we can make a deal.
BOK: What kind of deal?
JASON: Tell my father you killed me. Put a phaser burn on my shirt and send it to him. He'll think I'm dead. That's what this is about, isn't it? I got friends on Camor Five that will make it worth your while.
BOK: I understand your desire to live, but I want Picard to see your body so there will be no doubt.
PICARD: Lower your weapons or Bok is dead.
BOK: Lower yours or your son dies.
PICARD: You know as well as I do, Bok, he's not my son. I know what you've done. Miranda Vigo is his mother but I am not his father. You made it appear so because you resequenced his DNA. But your technique was flawed. He developed a neurological disorder. When my ship's Doctor investigated it, she discovered what you had done.
TOL: Now he'll never pay the ransom.
BOK: Shut up.
PICARD: There never was a ransom. All he was ever interested in was vengeance.
TOL: DaiMon, is this true?
PICARD: He's not a DaiMon. He was stripped of command.
BOK: They had no right to do that to me.
PICARD: He lied to you so that you would help him in his plan. The Enterprise is closing in on your position. If you let the two of us go, they won't attack you.
BOK: They won't attack us with you on board.
PICARD: They will cripple your vessel and keep you here until the Ferengi authorities arrive. You've got a lot deal of explaining to do. Your only hope is to turn Bok over to them and tell them that he deceived you.
TOL: There is no profit in this for us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47831.8. At Jason's request, the Enterprise has returned to Camor Five.

[Corridor]
JASON: Doctor Crusher feels I'm responding well to the treatment. She thinks that the damage may be completely reversed.
PICARD: I'm glad to hear it.
JASON: Yeah.
PICARD: Are you sure that you wouldn't like to stay on board the Enterprise for a few more days?
JASON: I can't. I have a life back on Camor. It's a mess, but I'd like to go back and straighten things out.
PICARD: I understand.

[Transporter room]
JASON: Well, maybe next time you come back this way, you can look me up.
PICARD: I will. I put a little something into your bag while you were packing. I know you'd probably have preferred a bottle of Saurian brandy, but that's all I could come up with.
JASON: I can't accept this.
PICARD: I want you to have it.
PICARD: Energize.

[Holodeck - Prospero's island]
DATA: Graves at my command have wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let 'em forth by my so potent art. But this rough magic I here abjure, and when I have required some heavenly music, which even now I do, to work mine end upon their senses, that this airy charm is for, I'll break my staff, bury it certain fathoms in the earth, and deeper than did ever plummet sound, I'll Captain? Sir, your attention is wandering.
PICARD: Data, I can barely see.
DATA: But sir, I am supposed to be attempting a Neo-Platonic magical rite. The darkness is appropriate for such a ritual.
PICARD: Yes, but Data, this is a play. The audience has to see you.
DATA: Perhaps I have been too literal with respect to my set design. Computer, modify holodeck program Data seven three. Shakespeare's The Tempest, Act Five, scene one. Increase torchlight by twenty percent.
PICARD: There, that's much better. Now, do you want to try it again?
DATA: Yes, sir. Captain, I am not certain I fully understand this Prospero character. I would appreciate any insight you might have that would improve my performance.
PICARD: Well, Data, Shakespeare was witnessing the end of the Renaissance and the birth of the modern era, and Prospero finds himself in a world where his powers are no longer needed. So, we see him here about to perform one final creative act before giving up his art forever.
DATA: There is certainly a tragic aspect to the character.
PICARD: Yes, but there's a certain expectancy too. A hopefulness about the future. You see, Shakespeare enjoyed mixing opposites. The past and the future. Hope and despair. Data, what is this? Is this part of your program?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: What is going on?
DATA: It appears to be a steam locomotive.
PICARD: A train?
DATA: If I am not mistaken.
PICARD: Computer, end program.

[Corridor]
DATA: Captain, you are injured.
PICARD: Oh yes, I know. I'll get it seen to, Data.
DATA: The train we encountered was from one of Doctor Crusher's holodeck programs. It was a re-creation of the Orient Express, a train which traveled from Paris to Istanbul from the late nineteenth century until.
PICARD: Yes, yes, Data, I know about the Orient Express. But what is it doing on Prospero's Island?
DATA: There appears to have been a malfunction in the holodeck's database retrieval program. The two programs somehow temporarily linked together.
PICARD: Is it possible that this malfunction will affect the other holodecks as well?
DATA: It is a possibility. I will need to run a diagnostic to be certain.
PICARD: Very good, Data. But shut down the other holodecks until you're finished, just to be on the safe side.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: I never realized that you were interested in trains. Are you aware that at its peak, the Orient Express carried more than ten thousand people a year?
CRUSHER: It isn't really the train itself that I'm interested in.
PICARD: What then?
CRUSHER: It's the experience. The Orient Express is romantic, mysterious, an elegant way to see exotic places and meet fascinating people. Do you know that one time, on one trip, both Sigmund Freud and Gertrude Stein just happened to be in the same car? They ended up having dinner together every night.
PICARD: I wonder what they talked about?
CRUSHER: Why don't you take a trip yourself and find out?
RIKER (voiceover): Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER (voiceover): All sections ready to begin the survey, sir.
PICARD: Very good. I'm on my way. Thank you.
CRUSHER: Don't forget the trip, Jean-Luc. Think about it. You never know who you'll meet on the Orient Express.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47869.2. After weathering an unexpected magnascopic storm in the Mekorda Sector, we are continuing our search for new Federation colony sites.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't think there's any possibility of developing sites in this region. Most of the stars are main sequence binaries. There are no M-class planets.
PICARD: Well, let's move on to another survey region. Have stellar cartography begin a
PICARD: Mister Data, report.
DATA: The ship has moved into warp, sir.
RIKER: Who gave that command?
DATA: Apparently no one. Helm and navigation controls are not functioning. Our speed is now warp seven point three and holding.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Mister La Forge, what's going on? We've lost primary helm control on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: I don't understand it. The impulse systems suddenly cut out and the warp drive just kicked in.
RIKER (voiceover): Geordi, can you take the engines offline?
LAFORGE: I'm working on it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, what's our heading?
DATA: Bearing one eight seven mark four. I am unable to determine our destination, however we are heading away from the Mekorda sector.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain, the computer's locked out all the propulsion

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Controls. I can't access any of the overrides.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE (voiceover): If you want us to stop, I'll have to do an emergency core shutdown.
RIKER: That would leave us without warp power for more than a week.
PICARD: Begin the procedure, Mister La Forge.
DATA: We are no longer at warp, sir. Impulse power has resumed. All systems show normal.
RIKER: Where are we?
DATA: We are approximately thirty billion kilometers from our original position.
PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It wasn't me. I didn't have time to complete the shut-down procedure.
PICARD (voiceover): Well, I want an explanation

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge. Picard out.
PICARD: Have you found anything yet?
LAFORGE: Only that we seem to have more than one mystery here. We still don't know why the ship jumped into warp, but it looks like we're lucky it did. There was a theta flux distortion building up around the ship.
PICARD: Why didn't our sensors alert us?
LAFORGE: Our sensors were never designed to detect theta flux distortions. And yet there is a record of the distortion in the sensor log. That's the other mystery.
DATA: One fact is clear, however. The distortion was growing in strength. If we had remained at our original position one point seven seconds longer, the distortion would have ruptured our warp core.
LAFORGE: If the Enterprise hadn't jumped into warp when it did, we would've been blown to pieces.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: I just don't get it, Data. What would cause the engines to suddenly jump into warp?
DATA: Perhaps the engines were activated by a random power fluctuation.
LAFORGE: Which occurred just in time to save the ship?
DATA: It is improbable, but it is possible.
LAFORGE: I don't know. I don't think I'm ready to start believing in luck.
DATA: There is another possibility.
LAFORGE: Yeah, what's that.
DATA: The sensors apparently detected a dangerous anomaly that threatened the Enterprise. It is possible that they triggered a safety device which caused the ship to avoid destruction.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's no direct link between the warp engines and the sensors.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that? It's some kind of new circuit node and it's connected to at least half a dozen points in the sensor array.
DATA: It appears to be connected to several other systems as well, including the warp control circuits.
LAFORGE: I guess there's a connection between the warp engines and the sensors after all.
LAFORGE: A force field. Where did that come from?
DATA: I am not certain. Perhaps it came from the node itself.
LAFORGE: Well, wherever it came from, it sure doesn't want us messing with this node.
DATA: It appears to be protecting itself.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We found these nodes in several systems around the ship. At some level or another, they're all connected.
DATA: These nodes were linking the sensors to our warp control and defensive systems. We believe this is why the ship jumped to warp.
LAFORGE: When the sensors detected danger, the defensive systems reacted to the threat and activated the warp engines to protect us.
RIKER: Where did these nodes come from?
DATA: It is possible that the magnascopic storm we recently experienced had an unexpected effect on the ship's systems.
LAFORGE: Wherever they come from, they seem to be multiplying.
DATA: As they increase, it will become progressively more difficult to control the ship.
RIKER: What do you propose we do?
LAFORGE: Well, getting rid of them isn't going to be so easy. When we attempted to examine the circuitry of one of the nodes, it generated a force field to keep us out.
RIKER: Whatever's going on. our first priority is getting back control of the ship.
DATA: Agreed. All of the nodal connections intersect in holodeck three. It appears to be a focal point of some kind.
LAFORGE: We might be able to find a way to use the holodeck circuitry to disable the nodes permanently.
RIKER: All right. Let's do it.

[Corridor]
DATA: Commander, the holodeck appears to be in operation.
RIKER: I thought you shut down the entire system.
DATA: I did, but it has reactivated itself and it will not disengage.
WORF: Which program is running?
DATA: Several different programs are running simultaneously.
RIKER: This should be interesting.

[Holodeck- train]
RIKER: You weren't kidding, Mister Data.
DATA: No, sir. I estimate that this scene consists of portions of seven distinct holodeck programs.
RIKER: See if you can access the circuits that have been affected by the nodes.
CONDUCTOR: Tickets! Tickets please. Please have your tickets ready. Thank you, sir. Thank you, madam. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tickets please.
RUSTIC: You know, I've never even been away from home. Now I'm going all the way to Vertiform City!
CONDUCTOR: Very nice, sir. Enjoy your trip. Tickets please. Tickets. Thank you sir.
CONDUCTOR: Tickets please. Tickets please.
DATA: Commander. I have located a large concentration of nodes behind this wall. They appear to be connected directly to the holodeck's main power coupling.
RIKER: All right, go ahead and depolarize the entire power grid.
DATA: The power grid is located beneath this deck, sir.
CONDUCTOR: Get away from there. Would you gentlemen care to show me your tickets?
RIKER: I believe we left our tickets in our compartments. Mister Worf, I told you to bring the tickets.
WORF: I forgot.
CONDUCTOR: I don't think you folks belong on this train.
ENGINEER: Hold it! You leave these people alone. They're only trying to help.
CONDUCTOR: You go back to the engine. This doesn't concern you.
ENGINEER: They're all trying to hijack the train.
RUSTIC: Hey, if you're the Engineer, who's doing the drivin'?
GANGSTER: I am.

[Engineering]
CREWMAN: Easy, sir, easy. I've got you.
LAFORGE: I'm all right, thanks. It looks like the navigational relay's overloaded.

[Engineering]
PICARD (voiceover): Geordi, what's going on? We just went into warp.
LAFORGE: We've lost engine and helm control again, Captain, but this time, they're completely burned out. I don't know if we can stop the ship.

[Holodeck- train]
DATA: I believe we have changed direction.
CONDUCTOR: Now we're on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way!
GANGSTER: I was right. He was trying to make off with my brick.
CONDUCTOR: You take good care of that. We can't afford to lose it. Now, are you people going to leave or are we going to have to throw you off the train?
DATA: Commander. According to my tricorder, the holodeck safeties have been disengaged. His weapon could be lethal.
RIKER: All right, let's get out of here.

[Engineering]
DATA: The number of systems now being affected by the nodes has increased considerably. Sensors, engines, replicators, propulsion, they are all working together now, almost independently of the main computer. And the nodes link them all through the holodeck.
RIKER: But why the holodeck? It doesn't make any sense.
DATA: Commander, I believe what happens on the holodeck has a direct effect on the ship. When we attempted to destroy the nodes, the characters on the train responded almost immediately to stop us.
RIKER: And when the engineer tried to protect us, one of the characters shot him.
DATA: Then the conductor then signaled for the train to change directions, and at approximately the same time
LAFORGE: The Enterprise also took off in a new direction.
RIKER: Are you saying the ship is under the control of the holodeck?
DATA: Not precisely. Geordi, does the configuration of connection nodes look familiar to you?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, it looks a little like the structure of your positronic brain.
DATA: That is correct. It would appear that the nodes are in the process of creating a rudimentary neural net.
RIKER: Data, what are you suggesting?
DATA: Unlikely as it may sound, I believe that the Enterprise may be forming an intelligence.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: This is a synaptic map of the human neo-cortex. This is a cross section of my positronic net. And this is a schematic of the connection nodes linking the ship's systems. I believe some sort of neural matrix is forming on the ship. It is still relatively primitive, but it is an intelligence nonetheless.
TROI: How could that happen?
DATA: I believe it is an emergent property.
PICARD: Explain.
DATA: Complex systems can sometimes behave in ways that are entirely unpredictable. The human brain, for example, might be described in terms of cellular functions and neurochemical interactions. But that description does not explain human consciousness, a capacity that far exceeds simple neural functions. Consciousness is an emergent property.
LAFORGE: In other words, something that's more than just the sum of its parts.
DATA: Exactly.
CRUSHER: How does that explain what's happening to the Enterprise?
DATA: The Enterprise contains a vast database of information which is managed by a sophisticated computer. This complex system gives the ship many of the characteristics of a biological organism.
RIKER: That's true. It sees with its sensors, it talks with its communications systems.
CRUSHER: In a sense, it almost reproduces with the replicators.
PICARD: And you think that the ship has somehow gone beyond those functions and is developing a new capacity?
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe a self-determining intelligence is emerging.
WORF: If that is so, what does the ship want? Where is it taking us?
DATA: I believe the key to understanding the ship's behavior lies in the holodeck. All of the connection nodes intersect at that location. It is clearly some kind of processing center.
PICARD: Processing center?
DATA: Yes, sir. A focal point where all the ideas and instincts of this emerging intelligence are first expressed in some form.
TROI: Almost like an imagination. Captain, I'd like to go to the holodeck. I could interact with the characters and maybe find some clues to help us understand what's happening.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, Mister Worf, I want you to go along. See if you can to re-establish control of the ship without damaging the nodes. If the ship is truly an emerging intelligence, then we have a responsibility to treat it with the same respect as any other being.

[Holodeck - train]
WORF: Welcome aboard, Counselor.
DATA: If you will distract these people, I will attempt to depolarize the power grid.
WORF: Excuse me. Have you finished the puzzle yet?
RUSTIC: Not yet, but we're gettin' close.
WORF: Do you recognize it?
TROI: No.
WORF: I would like to help. Tell me. What exactly are you making?
RUSTIC: What do you think we're making? A puzzle!
WORF: No, I meant the picture. What is it?
RUSTIC: Well, I don't know.
TROI: Can you deal me in?
GANGSTER: Sorry. It's a two man game.
GANGSTER: Hey! Get your hand off of that.
TROI: Is that why you killed the Engineer? To get this brick?
GANGSTER: I had to get it back. You know how much it's worth, lady? Plenty. And I got to get it to Keystone City.
TROI: Why? What's at Keystone City?
GANGSTER: That's where everything begins. Gin.
WORF: Are you succeeding, Commander?
DATA: I am ready to access the main power grid.
CONDUCTOR: Keystone City, next stop. Keystone City. Well, look who's back.
WORF: We do not want any trouble. We are simply passengers.
CONDUCTOR: Well then I'm sure you wouldn't mind showing me your tickets? Right. Sorry, boys. You're getting off right here.
GANGSTER: This is my stop.
TROI: Wait. What happens at Keystone City? Why are you taking the brick there?
GANGSTER: Excuse me.
TROI: I think we should follow that man. That brick may be an important clue.

[Holodeck - subway]
TROI: Where did he go?
DATA: I can access the power grid here. I will attempt to depolarize the grid by using a low frequency inversion field. It may disengage the nodes without destroying them.
TROI: There he is. I'm going after him.

[Holodeck - wall]
TROI: What are you doing here?
GANGSTER: Laying the foundation.
GANGSTER: Now, if you'll excuse me, I've got a train to catch.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I don't understand it, Captain. All of a sudden, cargo bay five started to depressurize.
PICARD: Did everyone get out in time?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, and I've re-established the containment field, but I'm reading massive power surges in the cargo bay and all sorts of transporter activity. Something weird is happening there, Captain.
PICARD: I want you to send a team down there immediately. Find out what's going on.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here. What's going on?
LAFORGE: I wish I could tell you.

[Holodeck - building site]
TROI: That man said he was laying a foundation.
WORF: Foundation for what?
TROI: Troi to Data
DATA (voiceover): Data here.
TROI: How are you doing?

[Holodeck - street]
DATA: I encountered a minor difficulty, Counselor, but it has been dealt with.
DATA: I am ready to depolarize the power grid.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: It looks like the ship's replicator and transporter systems have been merged somehow. to create this. The question is, what is it? Ensign, I want to run a full spectral analysis on this.
LAFORGE: I'm picking up a massive power fluctuations. The ship is losing its structural integrity.

[Holodeck - wall]
TROI: What's happening?
WORF: It's an earthquake. (the wall collapses on top of Deanna, revealing a door with number 1156 etched in the glass.)

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Data

[Holodeck - street]
LAFORGE: Stop what you're doing.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Holodeck - wall]
WORF: Are you all right?
TROI: I'm fine.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Data, I think we ought to get together and compare notes.
DATA (voiceover): Agreed.

[Sickbay]
TROI: The ship was protecting itself again. Stopping us from interfering. Whatever it's doing it intends to continue.
LAFORGE: I'm betting it all has something to do with that object that's forming in the cargo bay.
TROI: I think he's right, Captain. Look at the common themes playing out on the holodeck. A puzzle being put together, a foundation being laid, a paper doll being fashioned. They're all images of something being constructed.
LAFORGE: And some kind of object in the cargo bay that's being constructed atom by atom.
PICARD: What is that object?
LAFORGE: I have no idea. It's composed of silica polymers, duranium, and a couple of other compounds we haven't been able to identify yet. But creating it has had quite an effect on our systems. Warp power has dropped forty seven percent.
PICARD: Counselor, did you draw any other conclusions from your experiences on the holodeck? Anything that would help us to understand this situation?
TROI: The holodeck was full of metaphoric imagery like it was having some kind of daydream. It may not make literal sense, but symbolically it probably does have some kind of logic to it.
CRUSHER: The characters you spoke to, do they have any significance?
TROI: I think they represent different aspects of the ship. The Engineer, for instance, may represent the navigational system, the gunslinger could be the weapon system.
PICARD: Is there any way that we can persuade them to give back control of the ship?
TROI: I don't think it's possible to reason with them. Many of them are genuinely unaware of what's going on. It's as though this emergent intelligence is like an infant acting on impulse, trying to figure itself out as it goes. The only source of experience it can draw on is ours through our holodeck programs.
PICARD: Is there a way that we can relate to them on their own level, find some way to influence their behavior?
TROI: Maybe there is. I'd like to go back and try.
LAFORGE: Counselor, we haven't been able to re-establish the safeties.
CRUSHER: The injuries you suffered on the holodeck weren't severe, but next time they might kill you.
TROI: I'm aware of that.
PICARD: Very well, Counselor, go ahead. But bear in mind that whenever we have tried to hinder their efforts, we've failed. Perhaps it's time to cooperate with them.

[Holodeck - train]
CONDUCTOR: You don't belong on this train.
WORF: Three tickets for Vertiform City.
CONDUCTOR: Guess I was wrong about you folks. Welcome aboard.
WORF: What was that?
CONDUCTOR: We've been having some problems. The engine is running out of steam. I hope we make it to Vertiform City on time.
TROI: Is there anything we can do to help?
CONDUCTOR: Well, I could use a pair of strong arms in the engine room. Might help us get back on schedule.
TROI: Why don't you go with him, Worf? We'll see what we can do here.
RUSTIC: Excuse me. Are we going to get there okay?
TROI: Of course. You needn't worry about a thing. So, tell me everything you know about Vertiform City.
RUSTIC: Well, they got this restaurant there where you can eat all you want, any time. It's the best food around.

[Holodeck - Engine room]
CONDUCTOR: There's the coal and there's the boiler. I'm much obliged for your help.
CONDUCTOR: Well done, sir. I think this'll make a difference, all right.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't know how or why, sir, but warp power appears to be back to normal levels.
PICARD: What's our heading?
RIKER: We appear to be on a course for Tambor Beta six. It's a white dwarf star.

[Holodeck - Engine room]
CONDUCTOR: Keep it steady. Put your back into it. That's the ticket.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The ship is using a modified tractor beam to collect vertion particles from the star.
PICARD: Vertion particles. Vertiform City. That's what the ship was looking for.
RIKER: The particles are being routed through the transporter system into cargo bay five.
PICARD: Geordi, what's going on?
LAFORGE (voiceover): The object is absorbing

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Vertion particles. It's growing even faster than before. Commander, I'm picking up internal energy this thing.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What do you mean?
LAFORGE (voiceover): I mean it's generating its own energy. I'm picking up coherent emissions

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Matter conversion. It's incredible. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, something's wrong. We've got power fluctuations. Vertion absorption rate is dropping. What's happening to the particle beam?

[Bridge]
RIKER: The beam's exhausted the supply of particles in the star. There's nothing left to take out.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: The energy output of the object is decreasing.

[Holodeck - Engine room]
CONDUCTOR: Something's wrong.
WORF: What is it?
CONDUCTOR: This was supposed to be Vertiform City.
CONDUCTOR: We've been on the wrong track all along.

[Holodeck- train]
WORF: Are you all right?
TROI: Yes. What happened?
WORF: The Conductor accidently derailed the train.
DATA: Data to Captain Picard.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: Picard here.
DATA (voiceover): There has been an accident on the holodeck, sir. Has anything happened to the Enterprise?
PICARD: Yes, we've had a ship-wide shutdown. We've lost attitude control and most systems are offline.
LAFORGE: Captain, you'd better take a look at this. When the particle beam cut off, the object was beginning to form a coherent energy matrix. Now, if these readings are accurate, I'd say that the emission patterns were almost organic.
PICARD: Are you suggesting that the Enterprise is trying to create a lifeform?
LAFORGE: I think so.
PICARD: Will it survive?
LAFORGE: Well, its energy levels are dropping rapidly. Unless it gets an infusion of vertion particles, and I mean soon, I don't think so.
LAFORGE: Captain, all of our systems are back online and we're moving again, at warp nine.
PICARD: Let's get back to the Bridge.

[Holodeck- train]
RUSTIC: Whoo wee, that was a close one, wasn't it?
TROI: Where are we going now?
RUSTIC: Well, New Vertiform City, of course.
DATA: Data to Captain.
PICARD (voiceover): Picard here.
DATA: The train has returned to normal, sir. Our destination is New Vertiform City.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's our course?
RIKER: We're heading for the Cordannas system.
PICARD: Another white dwarf star.
RIKER: It's the nearest one to our last position.
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a problem. Even at warp nine, the Cordannas system is over twelve hours from here.
PICARD: Will the object in the cargo bay survive that long?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, but that's not the problem. The ship has diverted all of our systems to maximum propulsion, including life support. We have less than two hours of reserve oxygen.
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to stop the Enterprise. That means you have to get control of the train.
DATA (voiceover): Understood, sir.
PICARD: The ship is looking for vertion particles and it believes that the Cordannas system is the closest source. Is there any possibility of anything closer?
LAFORGE: White dwarf stars are the only natural sources of vertions, sir.
PICARD: Then what about artificial ones? Can you create the particles?

[Holodeck - train]
DATA: How did the Conductor stop the train?
WORF: There is a braking lever in the engine room.
TROI: Let's go.
RUSTIC: Sorry, folks, but you ain't going nowhere.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've narrowed the search to the MacPherson Nebula, which is a supernova remnant, and Dikon Alpha, which is a class nine pulsar. They're both fairly close to our current flight path and either one could produce vertion particles if we detonated a modified photon torpedo inside it.
RIKER: Vertions usually occur in miniscule amounts. Do you think either of these phenomena could produce enough of them?
LAFORGE: It's really hard to say. I can't even guarantee that we can create them at all.
PICARD: Well, we've got to give it a try. The nebula or the pulsar? It's your choice, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I say go with the nebula.
PICARD: Very well. Begin the torpedo modifications.
RIKER: Now let's see if we can get this ship to go where we want.

[Holodeck- train]
TROI: Please listen to me. We understand what's happening. We know you have get to New Vertiform City, and we want to help you get there.
RUSTIC: Well, I don't know.
TROI: Please, we're your friends.
RUSTIC: You're really going to help get us to New Vertiform City?
TROI: I promise.
RUSTIC: Okay. But just one of you. The rest stay here.

[Holodeck - Engine room]
CONDUCTOR: That's far enough.
GANGSTER: Sorry to spoil your party, pal. It's nothing personal.
DATA: I can get us there more quickly. I know a shorter route.
GANGSTER: Don't listen to him. He's up to somethin'.
CONDUCTOR: A shorter route?
DATA: Yes, if you will let me handle the controls.
GANGSTER: Don't do it.
CONDUCTOR: Well we're already behind schedule. If you can get us there on time. All right, go on, but no funny stuff.
DATA: Data to Captain Picard. I have taken control of the engine room.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by. Are we within sensor range of the nebula?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain, we are.
PICARD: Mister Data, I need you to slow us to impulse speed.

[Holodeck - Engine room]
DATA: I will attempt to do so.
CONDUCTOR: I hope you know what you're doing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are the modifications to the torpedoes complete?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Launch torpedo.
LAFORGE: It's working, Captain. The reaction is producing vertion particles.

[Holodeck Engine room]
CONDUCTOR: Well, what do you know? We're here.
GANGSTER: New Vertiform City.

[Cargo bay]
RIKER: The nodes are deactivating all over the ship. Our systems are beginning to function normally again.
PICARD: Then the purpose of the ship's intelligence was simply to bring this life form into being.
CRUSHER: There are some species whose sole purpose is to reproduce. Once they finally procreate, they die.
LAFORGE: Captain.

[Holodeck - train]
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise is back under our control. All traces of the emergent intelligence are gone and the object it created has disappeared into space.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I am staging a scene from The Tempest this evening for a small audience. I would like for you to attend.
PICARD: I would be honored. What scene?
DATA: Miranda's first encounter with other human beings.
PICARD: O brave new world, that has such people in it.
DATA: It seemed appropriate. Captain, you took a substantial risk in allowing the Enterprise to complete its task.
PICARD: Why do you say that?
DATA: Because the end result was unknown. The object could have been dangerous. It may in fact, be dangerous.
PICARD: And I have allowed it to go off on its merry way.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: The intelligence that was formed on the Enterprise didn't just come out of the ship's systems. It came from us. From our mission records, personal logs, holodeck programs, our fantasies. Now, if our experiences with the Enterprise have been honorable, can't we trust that the sum of those experiences will be the same?
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47941.7. The Enterprise is en route to a briefing on the situation in the Demilitarized Zone along the Cardassian border. Meanwhile, we're celebrating the return of an old friend.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Ro!
CRUSHER: Welcome home.
RO: Thanks. It's good to be back.
TROI: Congratulations on your promotion, Lieutenant.
RO: Same to you, Commander.
TROI: Thank you.
LAFORGE: Say, I understand that Advanced Tactical Training is a real picnic.
RO: Right.
CRUSHER: Did you see the buffet?
TROI: This is real Bajoran foraiga.
LAFORGE: It wasn't easy to find.
RO: You shouldn't have gone to all this trouble. Really.
CRUSHER: We wanted you to know how glad we are to have you back.
TROI: So, where are your new quarters?
RO: Deck four, section eight.
CRUSHER: What are do you planning to do
PICARD (voiceover): Lieutenant Ro.
RO: Go ahead, sir.
PICARD (voiceover): Please report to the Bridge.
RO: Yes, sir. Excuse me.

[Corridor]
RO: Captain.
PICARD: You seemed a bit overwhelmed by all the attention.
RO: Well, to tell you the truth, I really want to see everyone. I'd just rather do it one at a time.
PICARD: You look very fit, Lieutenant. Tactical Training seems to agree with you.
RO: You know me, I enjoy a challenge.
PICARD: That school is more than a challenge. Half the class washes out every year. But somehow I didn't think you'd be one of those.
RO: Captain, I want you to know that I really appreciate your recommending me. If it weren't for you, my life would be a very different one right now.
RIKER (voiceover): Bridge to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're receiving a distress signal from a Cardassian ship near the Demilitarized Zone.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Change course to intercept. I'm on my way. I'd like you at the conn, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign Gates.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: The Cardassian ship relayed a distress signal but it was cut off before we could find out what was wrong.
RO: I have the ship on long range sensors. It appears to be under attack by several small ships.
PICARD: Can you identify them?
RO: No, sir. They're not transmitting identification codes.
DATA: I will scan their warp signatures. Sir, sensors indicate the attacking vessels are Federation ships.
RO: We're coming into visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: Those are Federation ships.
PICARD: Isolate one and magnify. The Maquis. Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: To all Maquis ships. Call off your attack or we will be forced to engage you.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: You are Federation citizens. Your actions are in violation of our treaty with the Cardassians. Call off your attack.
DATA: They are not responding, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, are we in firing range?
WORF: Not yet, sir.
PICARD: Arm phasers and photon torpedoes and stand by.
RIKER: I never thought we'd be firing on our own people to protect a Cardassian ship.
DATA: The Maquis ships are regrouping, sir. They are closing in on the Cardassian vessel.
WORF: The Cardassian's shields are down to thirty percent.
RIKER: They may not be able to withstand another hit.
WORF: Sir, we are within weapons range.
PICARD: Mister Worf, can you detonate a torpedo spread between the Maquis ships and the Cardassians?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Do it.
WORF: The Maquis are breaking formation. They are withdrawing.
PICARD: Signal the Cardassians that we're standing by to assist them if they have any wounded.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
GUL EVEK: Do you people have experience treating Cardassians?
CRUSHER: Yes. Do you mind?
PICARD: Gul Evek. I'm sorry that we could not come to your aid sooner.
GUL EVEK: I suppose we're lucky you came at all. Lately Starfleet seems to look the other way when the Maquis attack.
PICARD: I can assure you that is not the case. We're doing everything in our power to control them.
GUL EVEK: The fact that my ship was attacked suggests that your efforts have met with limited success. They came at us with photon torpedoes and type eight phasers. Tell me, Captain, how do you suppose that a group of civilians acquired such weaponry?
PICARD: I can assure you it was not through official channels.
GUL EVEK: So you don't think the fact that some of the Maquis are former Starfleet officers has anything to do with it?
PICARD: Starfleet does not condone the Maquis' actions in the Demilitarized Zone any more than your government would condone the paramilitary actions of Cardassian civilians.
GUL EVEK: We have taken measures to deal with our colonists who have armed themselves.
PICARD: Considering that they destroyed a Juhryan freighter less than a week ago, I would say that your efforts are meeting with limited success.
GUL EVEK: Captain, if the Maquis are not stopped, this situation will continue to escalate to the point where the Cardassian military will have no choice but to take matters into their own hands.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Gul Evek and his crew have left the Enterprise, and we have proceeded to our rendezvous with Admiral Nechayev.

[Ready room]
NECHAYEV: No Bularian canapés this time, Captain?
PICARD: I thought twice was pushing it a little.
NECHAYEV: It's just as well. They're extremely fattening.
PICARD: You missed Gul Evek by a matter of hours. I asked him to stay. I thought that an Admiral's assurances might convince him that we are trying to deal with this Maquis situation.
NECHAYEV: Evek manages to make the Cardassians sound like helpless sheep being preyed on by Federation wolves. The truth is, we caught the Cardassian government supplying its colonies in the Demilitarized Zone with weapons.
PICARD: Gul Evek assured me that they had stopped that practice.
NECHAYEV: Ha. How comforting.
PICARD: Admiral, this Maquis situation has you worried.
NECHAYEV: Believe me, Captain, if I were living that close to the Cardassians, I'd keep a phaser under my pillow too. But in the last weeks we've seen signs that the Maquis are moving beyond self-defense. Their ranks are growing. They're acquiring ships, weapons. They seem to be preparing for a more aggressive military posture. We've got to put a stop to them before the entire Demilitarized Zone ignites. But before we stop them, we have to find them. They seem to be scattered in small cells around the Zone. And we don't have reliable intelligence about any of them.
PICARD: Perhaps you need an undercover operative.
NECHAYEV: Our thinking exactly. We intend to infiltrate their organization, and the person we want to do it is aboard your ship right now.

[Ro's quarters]
RO: Starfleet wants me to infiltrate the Maquis?
PICARD: Because of your recent training, because you're Bajoran, and because of your past troubles with Starfleet gives you a certain credibility.
RO: Well, that's certainly true. And just how soon would this mission begin?
PICARD: Immediately.
RO: I see. I've spent the better part of my life fighting the Cardassians. I never thought I'd be helping them out.
PICARD: This is a rare case when our interests and theirs coincide. We both want peace in the Demilitarized Zone.
RO: I've heard a lot about the Maquis. One of my instructors at Tactical Training, a Lieutenant Commander in Starfleet, a man I admired and respected, he was sympathetic to them. He resigned and left to join them.
PICARD: We're all sympathetic, Lieutenant. Our civilian population in the Demilitarized Zone is in a very difficult situation, but even sympathy has to end at some point. The peace treaty isn't just a piece of paper. If the Maquis force us into a war with Cardassia, it could mean hundreds of thousands of lives. Two years ago, Starfleet would never have tapped you for this mission. They must have a lot of confidence in you now.
RO: The way I see it, there's one good reason to take this mission, and that's to validate your faith in me.

[Alien bar]
WORF: We are looking for a Bajoran woman, dark hair.
DATA: She is responsible for the death of a Cardassian soldier.
WORF: If we learn that she has been here, this establishment will be closed down.
SANTOS: You say she had dark hair?
WORF: Yes.
SANTOS: She was here. You just missed her.
DATA: Do you know where she went?
SANTOS: No.
RO: It was really nice meeting you.
RO: Thanks.
SANTOS: So, did you kill that Cardassian?
RO: Starfleet thinks I did. That's reason enough to hide. Why did you tell them that I'd left?
SANTOS: There are worse things a person can do than kill a Cardassian soldier.
RO: You don't often meet someone willing to say that out loud.
SANTOS: In the Zone, there are a lot of us who feel that way.
RO: I'd like to meet people like that.

[Room]
MACIAS: Don't be afraid. You're not in danger here.
SANTOS: What is your name?
KALITA: Did you kill that Cardassian soldier?
RO: Who are you?
SANTOS: We're the people who saved you from Starfleet.
RO: Thanks, but I'll be going now.
SANTOS: Did you kill that Cardassian?
RO: Yes.
KALITA: That's a risky thing to do in the Demilitarized Zone. You can end up being hunted by Starfleet and the Cardassians.
RO: Then why did he risk bringing me here?
KALITA: We're asking the questions. Who are you?
RO: My name is Ro Laren. I grew up in the Bajoran camps.
MACIAS: That would explain why you have no love for Cardassians.
RO: I know what they're capable of. They tortured my father to death and I was forced to watch.
SANTOS: Where are you living now?
RO: Nowhere. I was a Starfleet officer, but I was court-martialled and sent to the stockade on Jaros Two. I'm not exactly what you'd call Starfleet material.
SANTOS: When were you on Jaros?
RO: What difference does it make?
KALITA: We want to check your story. When were you there?
RO: Starfleet let me out about three years ago because I agreed to do some work for them, mostly having to do with Bajor. But I got tired of watching them placate the Cardassians, and so I left.
KALITA: You resigned?
RO: Not officially. That's part of the reason why they're looking for me.
SANTOS: What were you doing on Omara?
RO: Look, I think I've answered enough of your questions. I would like to know who you people are.
MACIAS: Let's say that we sympathize with those who oppose Cardassia.
RO: Are you Maquis?
MACIAS: What if we were?
RO: If you were, I would ask if I could join you and help you fight.
MACIAS: We'll check your story. Go ahead, I'll keep an eye on her.
MACIAS: Come, let's stretch our legs.

[Settlement]
RO: Aren't you taking a chance by letting me see all of this? What if my story doesn't check out? What if I'm not who I say I am?
MACIAS: Well, then we'll have a problem, won't we?
RO: You are Maquis, aren't you?
MACIAS: Many of the people here are.
RO: Starfleet considers you outlaws. They're afraid you'll destroy the peace treaty.
MACIAS: They don't understand the situation here in the Zone. I lived on Juhraya. When the treaty was signed the colony suddenly found itself in Cardassian territory. Some of us chose to stay, take our chances. Then one night I was dragged from my bed and beaten. The authorities clucked their tongues and agreed it was an unfortunate incident, and did nothing.
RO: I'm not surprised. The Cardassians intend to make life so unpleasant for Federation citizens that they'll leave.
MACIAS: Exactly. And no one seems to see that, except the Maquis. How old were you when your father was killed?
RO: I'd rather not talk about it.
MACIAS: Hungry? Would you like something?
RO: No, thank you.
MACIAS: Hasperat.
RO: You like hasperat?
MACIAS: An old Bajoran friend of mine used to make it. His was stronger. He was killed many years ago fighting the Cardassian occupation of Bajor. I miss his company, and his hasperat.
RO: My father used to make the strongest hasperat you've ever tasted. Everything else seems mild by comparison.
MACIAS: Did he teach you how to make it?
RO: Yes. But I haven't tried it in years.
MACIAS: If you would make the brine for a really strong hasperat. I mean eye watering, tongue searing strong, you'd make an old man very happy.
RO: I would enjoy making it again.
SANTOS: Macias. I've checked with my sources at Starfleet. Her story's true.
MACIAS: I was sure it was. Kalita, she'll stay with you until we can find her a room.

[Meeting room]
MACIAS: Ah there you are.
KALITA: We've just heard a disturbing rumor.
RO: Another rumor?
KALITA: One that I think we should take seriously. A trader coming from Pendi Two said he could verify that the Cardassians are going to start supplying their colonists with biogenic weapons.
RO: I thought every shipment coming into the Zone was searched.
KALITA: The Cardassians always seem to find a way around problems like that.
SANTOS: Then we have to make a preemptive strike. Send a message to the Cardassians that we won't sit still while they kill us with toxins.
MACIAS: Agreed. But we can't mount a strike without medical supplies and our stockpile is dangerously low.
KALITA: If we put in a request for more, it'll draw suspicion.
RO: I can get medical supplies. I served on the Enterprise. They always have extra medkits on hand for relief missions.
SANTOS: You're wanted by Starfleet. They're not going to give you medkits just because you ask for them.
RO: I have no intention of asking for them. I intend to take them.
KALITA: How? The Enterprise is a fortress.
RO: I know its security systems work. Give me a ship. I can do it.
SANTOS: It's madness.
KALITA: We can't let her do something like this. We don't know anything about her.
MACIAS: I know that she can make very strong hasperat.
KALITA: What?
MACIAS: We need medical supplies. I think we should let her try.
KALITA: All right. But I'm going with her.
RO: I could use an extra hand at the controls. And a witness.

[Ro's ship]
RO: I set the transporter confinement parameters to maximum. We should be able to fill our hold with medical supplies with just one single beam out.
KALITA: I had no idea it was going to be so easy.
RO: We're approaching the Federation border.
KALITA: How do you plan to get out of the Demilitarized Zone without being searched at one of the checkpoints?
RO: We're going to cross the border here.
KALITA: There are sensor buoys all along the border. If we cross anywhere other than a checkpoint, Starfleet will send a ship to investigate.
RO: With the right security codes, we can disable the proximity detectors on the buoys.
KALITA: Starfleet changes those codes all the time.
RO: I know the encryption algorithms. If I can access the buoy's protocol subsystem I should be able to figure out the codes.
KALITA: Should be able to?
RO: Do you want this mission to succeed?
KALITA: Of course I do. We need those medical supplies.
RO: In that case, let me do my job. I'm in.
KALITA: What's wrong?
RO: If I don't input the right code in the next twenty seconds, we'll trigger the proximity alarm.
KALITA: I'm getting us out of sensor range.
RO: Don't. If we break the comm. link, we won't be able to try again.
RO: It worked. Until they change the access codes again, we can cross the border here.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 47943.2. It has been over a week since Lieutenant Ro left the Enterprise. We have yet to receive any communication from her.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We picked up a request for emergency assistance from a Federation science ship in the Topin system.
PICARD: Are there any other ships in the vicinity?
RIKER: We're the closest.
PICARD: Helm, set course for the Topin system. Mister Data, will you signal the science ship that we're on our way.
DATA: It is unlikely that they would receive our communication, sir. The Topin system contains an unstable protostar. It generates significant magnetoscopic interference.
PICARD: Can we use our sensors to find them?
DATA: Most of our sensors would be ineffective, although our directional array should cut through the interference.
RIKER: That array has such a narrow scan field. We might as well break out the palm beacons and try to find them that way.

[Ro's ship]
KALITA: This is insane. We're sitting here, no sensors, blind to the outside, waiting for a galaxy class Starship to come swooping down on us.
RO: Don't worry. It'll be hard for them to locate us with just the directional sensors. Besides, they're looking for a damaged science ship that wants to be found. They're here. Standby to engage thrusters.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Anything?
DATA: No, sir. It will take approximately six hours to scan this system.
WORF: Captain, the distress call is being repeated.
PICARD: Data, can you locate the signal?
DATA: I am attempting to do so.

[Ro's ship]
KALITA: They're scanning our last position.
RO: All right, I've locked onto their sensor beam. I'm going to use it to maneuver into transporter range.
KALITA: How are we going to beam through their shields?
RO: We can't. If we're going to get those medical supplies, we're going to have to take this ship through their shields.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, I am scanning the area from which the distress signal was sent, but I am unable to detect a vessel.
WORF: Captain, the computer has detected a piggyback communication on the last distress signal.
PICARD: Can you decode it?
WORF: It will take a few moments.
PICARD: Do it.

[Ro's ship]
RO: The Enterprise shields have a weak point. When the ship is at impulse, the thrust destabilizes the shield configuration right at this point. I'm going to try to punch through there.
KALITA: Won't they detect us?
RO: They'll know something's penetrated the shields. With all the interference it'll take them a few seconds to find us. We'll have to beam the medical supplies aboard and get out fast.

[Bridge]
WORF: The message is difficult to decode. Interference has garbled much of the transmission, but it seems to be from Lieutenant Ro.
PICARD: Ro is on that ship?
DATA: Sir, a vessel of some kind is attempting to penetrate our aft shields.
PICARD: Let it through.

[Ro's ship]
RO: We're going to make it. All right, we're in.
KALITA: Energizing.
RO: Let's get out of here.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, a quantity of medical supplies was beamed from cargo bay seven.
DATA: The vessel that penetrated our shields is of the same design as the ships used by the Maquis. It is moving off.
PICARD: Let it go. There must be someone with her. We should make it look as though we're trying to stop them. Mister Worf, lock phasers on their previous position and fire.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Now we know what they mean by Advanced Tactical Training.

[Settlement]
SANTOS: You took your ship through their shields?
KALITA: Ro parked us between their warp nacelles. I thought she was crazy, but it worked. She knew exactly what she was doing.
MACIAS: Well done.
SANTOS: I have to inventory supplies and find out what we have.
KALITA: See you later.
MACIAS: Well, it seems that Kalita has decided you're not a Federation spy after all. She's suspicious of everyone at first. And rightly so. We've learned to be cautious with strangers.
RO: I understand.
MACIAS: But I've known since I first met you that in your heart, you're one of us.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Having earned the Maquis' trust with her raid on the Enterprise, Lieutenant Ro has been given access to a ship and allowed to leave the settlement by herself.

[Observation lounge]
RO: There are rumors that the Cardassians are supplying their colonists with biogenic weapons.
PICARD: Frankly, I find it hard to believe. Every ship that enters the Demilitarized Zone is being searched.
RO: The Maquis are convinced that the Cardassians are finding a way around these searches.
PICARD: You know, we could make use of that.
RO: Sir?
PICARD: We have come up with a plan that has the potential to seriously curtail the Maquis. We want to give them a target so threatening to them that they'll be willing to commit as many ships and people as possible in order to destroy it.
RO: What do you mean, give them a target?
PICARD: Biogenic weapons, for example. You could provide them with intelligence that would show that the Cardassians are, in fact, supplying their colonists with them.
RO: That would get their attention, all right.
PICARD: You could tell them that in order to get past the check points, they're shipping the components for these weapons through third parties, and then we could put together a convoy and send it toward the Demilitarized Zone.
RO: And when the Maquis attack it, Starfleet will be waiting for them.
PICARD: We could station our ships in the Hugora Nebula to avoid detection.
RO: Basically, I would be leading them into a trap.
PICARD: That's right. If you have a problem with any of this, I need to know it now.
RO: Well, if I do, sir, it will not stop me from carrying out my duty.
PICARD: I knew that I could count on you.

[Meeting Room]
RO: It took me a while, but I managed to patch through into Starfleet's comm. system. I intercepted a communication from one of the checkpoints on the border. They're concerned because a Pakled transport came through carrying retro-viral vaccines.
SANTOS: Why is that a concern?
RO: Well, last week a Ferengi transport came through carrying biomimetic gels. By themselves, neither of these is dangerous, but Starfleet is concerned because with along with other components the Cardassians could put together a biogenic device.
KALITA: What is Starfleet going to do about it?
RO: They can't do anything about it. These items are all perfectly legal.
MACIAS: How close are the Cardassians to having the components they need?
RO: Very close. Two days ago, a Yridian convoy left Deep Space Nine for the Demilitarized Zone. It's carrying isomiotic hypos, plasma flares and quarantine pods.
KALITA: We can't let that convoy reach its destination.
SANTOS: But it's too big for us to go after alone.
MACIAS: I'll discuss the situation with the other cell leaders. Considering what's at stake, they'll want to help.

[Settlement]
MACIAS: I've sent a communication to the others. When this is over, we'll celebrate.
RO: When it's over?
MACIAS: When Cardassia realizes they can't intimidate us into leaving our colonies.
RO: Something tells me it'll be a long time before we'll be celebrating.
MACIAS: Don't be discouraged, Ro. It'll take time, but the important thing is that we not give up.
RO: I spent ten years in the camps. I don't give up.
MACIAS: I've been thinking a long time about what our celebration will be like. We'll have a huge dinner. You'll make hasperat and I'll make blueberry pie. We'll drink wine and we'll dance. I'll even play the belaklavion. That'll give everyone a laugh.
RO: You play the klavion?
MACIAS: Yes, badly. It's a difficult instrument, but I enjoy the challenge.
RO: My father played the klavion. When I was very young and afraid of monsters under my bed, he'd play for me. He said that the klavion had special powers. Monsters were afraid of it and when they heard it they would disappear. When I listened to that music he played for me I was never afraid to go to sleep. When he died I realized even he couldn't make all the monsters go away.
MACIAS: Why wait? Let's go to the market. Let's get food for a feast, for a celebration.
RO: A celebration of what?
MACIAS: Of absolutely nothing. Just to celebrate.
RO: I'd like that.
MACIAS: Come, let's go to the market. If I'm going to make a pie, we'll have to find a substitute for blueberries. Haven't seen real ones in years.
RO: On Bajor, there's a berry
MACIAS: Yes, I know it, very sweet.
SANTOS: Ro!
RO: Macias?
MACIAS: They must have found out that there was a Maquis cell here.
RO: Kalita, get one of the medkits. Hurry. You have to hang on.
MACIAS: When an old fighter like me dies someone always steps forward to take his place.

[Alien bar]
RO: Not tonight. Hello. Are you alone?
PICARD: I hope not.
RO: Why don't we get acquainted? There's a table in the back that's more private.
PICARD: I'd like that.
RO: We have to cancel the mission.
PICARD: Why?
RO: The Maquis didn't go for the bait. They think the convoy is too big a target.
PICARD: But there are only six ships. We could even cut back that number.
RO: It's the commitment of resources, of grouping so many of the Maquis together at once. They feel that it makes them too vulnerable.
PICARD: Every intelligence report that I get from Starfleet suggests that the Maquis are eager to expand their strikes, they want to escalate their activities. Now you're telling me this isn't true?
RO: It's probably different in every cell. The people I've met tend to be more conservative. I'm sure others have a more militant attitude.
PICARD: Laren, what's going on?
RO: Do you have the money I asked you to bring?
PICARD: Yes.
RO: Put some on the table.
PICARD: What?
RO: By this time, you should be negotiating my price. When you sent me on this mission, I thought that I could do it. Even though it meant helping Cardassians, even though it meant betraying people who are fighting against them. Now I'm not sure where I stand.
PICARD: Are you saying you want to back out of this mission?
RO: Sir, I don't want to let you down, I swear that I don't.
PICARD: This has nothing to do with me. This is about you. If you back out now, you'll throw away everything you've worked for. We're committed to this mission. My only question for you is, can you carry out your orders? I could put you before a board of inquiry for having lied to me about this operation. I would certainly have you court-martialled if you sabotage it. Now, it's your decision.
RO: I'll carry out my orders, sir.
PICARD: I feel it necessary to have Commander Riker go back with you. He can pose as a relative. I just want to make sure that nothing happens to obstruct this mission.
PICARD: I'm sorry. I don't have that kind of money.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We have received word from Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro that the Maquis will be attacking the convoy as planned. Our ships have taken up position in the Hugora Nebula to wait for them.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have established a relay link with the sensor probe we left on the perimeter of the Nebula. This is the convoy. We are expecting the Maquis attack force to cross the border from the Demilitarized Zone.
PICARD: As soon as they cross the border, we'll intercept them.
WORF: Captain, in order to ensure that the ship Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro are piloting does not come under fire, I have relayed their warp signature to the rest of the attack force.
DATA: Sir, the Maquis squadron is coming into sensor range.
PICARD: Go to Red alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ro's ship]
SANTOS (voiceover): Squad leader to all ships.
RO: Go ahead, squad leader.

[Santos' ship]
SANTOS: We'll be crossing the border in less than one minute. Arm your weapons.
RO (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Ro's ship]
RIKER: Starfleet can't make its move until we're out of the Demilitarized Zone. We're to break formation and take cover in the Nebula as soon as they appear.
RO: The ships in the convoy are raising their shields. They've spotted us.
RIKER: We cross the border in thirty seconds.
RIKER: What the?
RO: I'm sorry. I can't let this happen.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, the vessel being piloted by Lieutenant Ro is firing a low intensity particle beam into the nebula.
PICARD: What the hell is she doing?
DATA: The polarizing effect being created by the beam may make it possible for us to be detected.
PICARD: Can you counter the effect?
DATA: I will attempt to do so.

[Santos's ship]
SANTOS: Ro, why are you firing?
RO (voiceover): Scan the nebula.

[Ro's ship]
RO: There's a Starfleet attack force hiding inside it.

[Santos' ship]
SANTOS: I see it! Squad leader to all ships. Abort the mission. Repeat, abort the mission.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, the Maquis ships are breaking formation.
PICARD: Have they crossed the border?
DATA: No, sir. They are withdrawing.
WORF: Captain, Lieutenant Ro's ship is not retreating with the others. It is heading toward us.
PICARD: When she comes aboard take her into custody.

[Ro's ship]
RO: Alpha Seven to Alpha Nine.
KALITA (voiceover): Go ahead.
RO: Stand by to beam me aboard.
KALITA (voiceover): Standing by.
RO: You can take this ship back to the Enterprise.
RIKER: You're going with them?
RO: It's been a long time since I really felt like I really belonged somewhere. Could you tell Captain Picard something for me?
RIKER: Of course. What is it?
RO: Tell him I'm sorry.
RIKER: So long, Ro. Take care of yourself.
RO: Goodbye, Will. Energize.

[Ready room]
RIKER: She seemed very sure that she was making the right choice. I think her only real regret was that she let you down. Here's my report.

[Corridor]
TROI: That was an incredible program.
WORF: I am glad you approve. I have always found the Black Sea at night to be a most stimulating experience.
TROI: Worf, we were walking barefoot on the beach with balalaika music in the air, ocean breeze washing over us, stars in the sky, a full moon rising, and the most you can say is stimulating?
WORF: It was very stimulating.
WORF: What?
TROI: You know, I don't spend nearly enough time on the holodeck. I should take my own advice and go there to relax. Next time I'll choose the program. If you like the Black Sea, you're going to love Lake Cataria on Betazed.
WORF: Deanna, perhaps before there is a next time, we should discuss Commander Riker.
TROI: Why, is he coming along?
WORF: No, but I do not wish. I mean, it would be unfortunate if he. If you and I are going to continue, I do not wish to hurt his feelings.
TROI: Worf, I think it's all right to concentrate on our feelings, yours and mine.
PICARD: Counselor! What's today's date? The date!
WORF: Stardate 47988.
PICARD: 47988.
TROI: Captain, what's wrong?
PICARD: 47988. I'm not sure. I don't know how or why, but I'm moving back and forth through time.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: I had this feeling I had physically left the Enterprise. I was in another time, another place. I was somewhere in the past.
TROI: Can you describe where you were, what it looked like?
PICARD: You see, it's all slipping away so fast. It's like waking up from a nightmare. It was years ago. It was before I took command of the Enterprise. I was talking to someone, I can't remember who. And then it all changed. I was no longer in the past. I was now an old man in the future, and I was outside and I was doing something. I can't remember what it was. I'm sorry, it's all gone. I just can't remember.
TROI: It's all right. Have you considered the possibility that this was just a dream?
PICARD: No, no, it was much more than a dream. The smells, the sounds, the very touch of things, much more real than a dream.
TROI: How long did you spend in each time period? Did it seem like minutes, hours?
PICARD: You see, I can't say. At first I had a sense of confusion, disorientation. I wasn't sure where I was. And then all that passed and it all seemed perfectly natural, as though I belonged in that time. But I can't

[Future Vineyard]
LAFORGE: Captain Picard to the Bridge! Captain, we've got a problem with the warp core, or the phase inducers, or some other damn thing.
PICARD: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Hello, Captain or should I call you Ambassador?
PICARD: Oh, I haven't been called that for some time either.
LAFORGE: How about Mister Picard?
PICARD: How about Jean-Luc?
LAFORGE: I don't think I could get used to that.
PICARD: Good Lord, Geordi. Well, how long has it been?
LAFORGE: Nine years.
PICARD: No, no, no. Since you last called me Captain, since we were all together on the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: Close to twenty five years.
PICARD: Twenty five years. Well, time has been good to you.
LAFORGE: IA little too good to me in some places. Can I give you a hand here?
PICARD: Oh, well, I'm just tying up some vines.
LAFORGE: You've got leaf miners. You might want to use a bacillus spray. My wife is quite a gardener. I've picked up a little bit of it.
PICARD: How is Leah?
LAFORGE: Just wonderful. Busy as ever. She's just been made director of the Daystrom Institute.
PICARD: What about the little ones, Brett, Alandra and er?
LAFORGE: Sidney.
PICARD: Sidney.
LAFORGE: Well, they're not so little any more. Brett is applying to Starfleet Academy next year.
PICARD: So what brings you here?
LAFORGE: Oh I just thought I'd stop by. Been thinking about the old days on the Enterprise. I was in the neighborhood.
PICARD: Geordi, you don't make the trip from Rigel Three to Earth just to drop by.
LAFORGE: No.
PICARD: So, you've heard?
LAFORGE: Leah's got a few friends at Starfleet Medical. Word gets around.
PICARD: I'm not an invalid. Irumodic Syndrome can take years to run its course.
LAFORGE: I know. Once I heard, well, I just wanted to stop by just the same.
PICARD: Well now that you're here, you can help me carry those tools. Well, my cooking may not be up to Leah's standards, but I can still make a decent cup of tea. Oh, I read your last novel. I thought that the protagonist a little too flamboyant, but for the rest I
LAFORGE: Captain, are you all right? Captain!
TASHA (voiceover): Captain?

[Past - Shuttlecraft]
TASHA: Will this be your first time on a Galaxy class starship? Are you all right, sir? Sir?
PICARD: I'm sorry, Lieutenant. My mind must have wandered. What were you saying?
TASHA: I was asking if you'd ever been aboard a Galaxy class starship before.
PICARD: No. Of course, I'm familiar with the blueprints and specifications, but this will be my first time aboard.
TASHA: Well then, if I may be so bold, sir, you're in for a treat. The Enterprise is quite a ship.
PICARD: I'm sure she is.
TASHA: Have I done something wrong, sir?
PICARD: No. It's just that you look very familiar.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Enterprise to shuttlecraft Galileo. You are cleared for arrival in shuttlebay two.
TASHA: Acknowledged, Enterprise. And there she is.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Captain? Captain?
PICARD: Tasha. I was just with Tasha in the shuttle.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've finished the neurographic scan. I don't see anything that might cause hallucinations or a psychogenic reaction.
TROI: Is there any indication of temporal displacement?
CRUSHER: No. Usually a temporal shift would leave some kind of triptamine residue in the cerebral cortex, but the scan didn't show any. Personally, I think you just enjoy waking everybody up in the middle of the night.
PICARD: Actually, I really like running around the ship in my bare feet.
OGAWA: The biospectral test results, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Your blood gas analysis is consistent with someone who's been breathing the ship's air for weeks. If you'd been somewhere else, there would be an indication of change in the oxygen isotope ratios. Thanks. Deanna, would you excuse us please?
TROI: Of course.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I scanned for evidence of Irumodic Syndrome, as you suggested. There wasn't any. But I did find a small structural defect in the parietal lobe.
PICARD: A defect that you hadn't noticed before?
CRUSHER: It's the kind of defect that would only show up on a level four neurographic scan. It could cause you to be susceptible to several kinds of neurological disorders including Irumodic Syndrome. Now, it's possible for you to live with this defect for the rest of your life without developing a problem. Or even if you do, many people continue to live normal lives for a long time after the onset of Irumodic Syndrome.
PICARD: If that's so, why do you look like you've just signed my death sentence?
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I guess it caught me off guard.
PICARD: I wouldn't worry about it. Something tells me that you're going to have to put up with me for a long time to come.
CRUSHER: Well, it won't be easy, but I'll manage.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Has Worf found anything?
RIKER: No, sir. His security scans came up negative. They're still checking the sensor logs but there is no indication that you ever left the ship.
PICARD: I wasn't dreaming. Something happened.
WORF (voiceover): Worf to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming transmission from Admiral Nakamura. It is a priority one message.
PICARD: Beverly? Mister Worf, will you route the call through to Doctor Crusher's office.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Crusher's office]
NAKAMURA (screen): Captain.
PICARD: Admiral.
NAKAMURA (screen): I am initiating a fleet-wide Yellow Alert. Starfleet intelligence has picked up some alarming reports from the Romulan Empire. It appears that at least thirty Warbirds have been pulled from other assignments and are headed for the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Is there any explanation why they would make such a blatantly aggressive move?
NAKAMURA (screen): Our operatives on Romulus have indicated that there appears to be something happening in the Neutral Zone, specifically in the Devron System. Our own long range scans have picked up some kind of spatial anomaly in the area. We can't tell what it is.
PICARD: What are our orders?
NAKAMURA (screen): This is a very delicate situation. I am deploying fifteen starships along our side of the Neutral Zone. I want you to go there as well. See if you can find out what is going on in the Devron System.
PICARD: Am I authorized to enter the Neutral Zone?
NAKAMURA (screen): Not yet. Wait and see what the Romulans do. You can conduct long range scans, send probes if necessary, but do not cross the border unless they do.
PICARD: Understood.
NAKAMURA (screen): Starfleet out.

[Future Vineyard]
LAFORGE: Captain. What's wrong?
PICARD: This is not my time. I don't belong here.
LAFORGE: What?
PICARD: I was somewhere else a few moments ago.
LAFORGE: What do you mean? You've been right here with me.
PICARD: No, no, no! I was somewhere else. I was, it was a long time ago. There was someone talking. I was talking to someone. Beverly. I was talking to Beverly.
LAFORGE: It's okay, Captain. Everything's going to be all right.
PICARD: I'm not senile, you know. This did happen. I was here, I was talking to you, and then I was somewhere else. I was on the Enterprise. I was back on the Enterprise. At least, I think that's where it was. I was in Sickbay. Well, it might have been a hospital.
LAFORGE: Captain, I think we should go back to the house and call your doctor
PICARD: Yes, yes, I know what you're thinking. It's the Irumodic Syndrome. He's beginning to lose his mind, the old man. Well, it's not that. And I'm not daydreaming either.
LAFORGE: Well, all right. All right. So, what do you want do about it?
PICARD: Data. I want to see Data.
LAFORGE: Data? Why?
PICARD: Because I think he can help.
LAFORGE: Help how?
PICARD: I don't know! I don't know! I want to see Data!
LAFORGE: Okay, then, all right, let's go see Data. He's still at Cambridge, isn't he?
PICARD: Yes, I think he is.
PICARD: You see them, don't you?
LAFORGE: See who?
PICARD: They're everywhere. They're laughing at me. Why are they laughing?
LAFORGE: Come on, Captain. Let's go see Data.
PICARD: Yes, Data. We'll go see Data.

[Future Cambridge University - Data's library]
PICARD: I know how it sounds but it happened. It was real. I was there, back on board the Enterprise.
JESSEL: How do you like your tea?
PICARD: Tea? Earl Gray. Hot.
JESSEL: Course it's hot. What do you want in it?
PICARD: Nothing. Well, Data, I must say, this is a fine place you have here. They certainly treat professors pretty well at Cambridge
DATA: Holding the Lucasian Chair does have its perquisites. This house originally belonged to Sir Isaac Newton when he held the position. It's become the traditional residence.
JESSEL: Here you go.
LAFORGE: Thank you.
JESSEL: If you're really his friend, you'll get him to take that gray out of his hair. Looks like a bloody skunk.
DATA: Jessel. She can be frightfully trying at times, but she does make me laugh.
LAFORGE: Data, what is it with the hair anyway?
DATA: I found that a touch of gray adds an air of distinction.
PICARD: You say this is Earl Gray? I'd swear that it was Darjeeling.
DATA: Captain, how long has it been since you've seen a physician about your Irumodic Syndrome?
PICARD: A week. They've prescribed peridaxon.
DATA: But sir, peridaxon
PICARD: Yes, I know, it's not a cure, There's nothing that can prevent the deterioration of the synaptic pathways. You think that I'm senile, that all this is just a delusion.
LAFORGE: Now come on, Captain, no one said anything of the kind.
DATA: In all honesty, Captain, the thought has occurred to me. However, there's nothing to disprove what you're saying. So it's possible something is happening to you. The first thing we should do is run a complete series of neurographic scans. We can use the equipment at the biometrics lab here on the campus. Jessel, ask Professor Ripper to take over my lecture for tomorrow. Possibly for the rest of the week. Captain, we'll get to the bottom of this.
PICARD: That's the Data that I remember. I knew I could count on you.

[Past Shuttlebay]
TASHA: Commanding officer Enterprise arriving.
PICARD: To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, stardate 41148
PICARD: You are hereby requested and required to take command
PICARD: to take command of the USS Enterprise as of this date. Signed Rear Admiral Norah Satie, Starfleet Command.
PICARD: Red Alert! All crew to battle stations.
TASHA: You heard him. Move! Personal log, stardate 41153.7. Recorded under security lockout Omega three two seven. I have decided not to inform this crew of my experiences. If it's true that I've traveled to the past, I cannot risk giving them foreknowledge of what's to come.

[Past - Observation lounge]
PICARD: Report.
TASHA: We've completed a full subspace scan of the ship and surrounding space. We've detected no unusual readings or anomalies.
WORF: With all due respect, sir, it would be helpful if we knew exactly what we were looking for.
PICARD: Noted. Counselor, do you sense anything unusual on board the Enterprise? Perhaps an alien presence that doesn't belong here, maybe one operating on a level of intelligence far superior to our own?
TROI: No, sir. I'm only aware of the crew and the families on board the ship.
PICARD: Mister Worf, initiate a level two security alert on all decks until further notice.
TASHA: With all due respect, sir, I'm the Security Chief on this ship. Unless you're planning to make a change.
PICARD: No, of course not. Lieutenant, security alert two.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN (voiceover): Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.
PICARD: We're on our way, Chief.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, Starfleet has just issued an alert. It appears a number of vessels are moving toward the Neutral Zone between Romulan and Federation space.
TASHA: What kind of vessels?
O'BRIEN: Freighters, transports, all civilians. None of them Starfleet ships.
PICARD: This tells me that a large spatial anomaly has appeared in the Neutral Zone, in the Devron System.
WORF: Captain, it could be a Romulan trick to lure our ships into the Neutral Zone as an excuse for a military strike.
O'BRIEN: Starfleet's canceling our mission to Farpoint Station and ordering us to the Neutral Zone as soon as we leave the Spacedock.
PICARD: No, we'll proceed to Farpoint.
TASHA: Sir?
PICARD: You heard me.
WORF: Captain, the security of the Federation could be at stake.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you man your station.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI: Captain, perhaps if we understood your thinking, if you could explain
PICARD: I've no intention of explaining to anyone. We will proceed with our mission to Farpoint as planned. Chief O'Brien, am I right in thinking that you're having a problem with the warp plasma inducers.
O'BRIEN: That's right, sir.
PICARD: Well I know how to get them back online. You're with me. We'll be in main Engineering.

[Past - Engineering]
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, will you use these specifications to bypass the secondary plasma inducer.
O'BRIEN: You have to realize sir, this isn't exactly my area of expertise. The Chief Engineer should be making these modifications.
PICARD: But the Chief Engineer isn't on board. Mister O'Brien, trust me. I know you can do it. All those years you spent as a child building those model starship engines. They were well worth it.
O'BRIEN: How did you know that, sir?
PICARD: From your Starfleet records.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. I'll get right to these modifications. Fletcher, tell Munoz and Lee to get up here right away.
FLETCHER: Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN: We have to realign the entire power grid. We'll all be burning the midnight oil on this one.
DATA: That would be inadvisable.
O'BRIEN: Excuse me?
DATA: If you attempt to ignite a petroleum product on this ship at zero hundred hours, it will activate the fire suppression system, which would seal off this entire compartment.
O'BRIEN: That was just an expression.
DATA: Expression of what?
O'BRIEN: A figure of speech. I was trying to tell him that we'd be working late.
DATA: Ah. Then to burn the midnight oil implies late work?
O'BRIEN: That's right.
DATA: I am curious. What is the etymology of that idiom? How did it come to be used in contemporary language?
O'BRIEN: I don't know, sir.
PICARD: Commander Data, welcome on board. It's so very good to see you.
DATA: It is good to see you, too, sir.
PICARD: I could use your help with the infuser array.
DATA: Certainly.
PICARD: As you can see, we're having difficulty with the plasma conduits.
DATA: This will need a completely new field induction subprocessor. It appears that we will be required to ignite the midnight petroleum, sir.
CRUSHER (voiceover): Jean-Luc, what's going on?

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: It happened again.
CRUSHER: A time shift?
PICARD: Yes.
RIKER: What happened?
PICARD: It's still a little vague, but I can remember more this time. It seems that every time I shift periods, I can retain more memory. At first, it appeared that I was in the future, years from now, and then I was in the past just before our first mission.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: I just scanned his temporal lobe and compared it to the scan I performed just a few minutes before. There's a thirteen percent increase in the acetylcholine of the hippocampus. Within a matter of minutes, you have accumulated over two days worth of memories.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Counselor, do you remember when I first came on board the Enterprise?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: What happened after the welcoming ceremony?
TROI: There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf and the other senior officers.
PICARD: Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Do you remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zone to investigate a spatial anomaly?
TROI: No.
DATA: It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods you described. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect on the other two.
RIKER: And yet in both the past and the present there's a report of the same anomaly in the Devron System. I find it hard to believe that that's a coincidence.
PICARD: For all I know, I may find the same thing in the future.
LAFORGE: Perhaps the anomaly is a temporal disturbance of some kind.
CRUSHER: How is all this related to your time shifting?
PICARD: These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will find answers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerous threat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battle readiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed.
RIKER: Deanna, it's going to be a late night. Would you like to have some dinner first?
TROI: Actually I, we have plans.
RIKER: Oh. I see. I'm sorry. I'll see you in the morning.
WORF: Goodnight, sir.
RIKER: Worf.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I want continuous subspace sweeps. We may be able to detect a temporal disturbance.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Will, this time shifting. When it happens I experience a momentary disorientation. If that should happen during a crisis, I want you to take command immediately. Number One?
RIKER: I'm sorry. Be prepared to take command. Aye, sir.
PICARD: Speaking of disorientation, are you all right?
RIKER: I'm just a little distracted. I'm fine.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Milk, warm, a dash of nutmeg.
PICARD: What's this?
CRUSHER: A prescription. A glass of warm milk and eight hours uninterrupted sleep.
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Doctor's orders. You're exhausted. Look, I don't know whether you've slept in the past or in the future, but I'm sure you haven't slept in the present. Now get some rest, or I'll have you relieved and sedated.
PICARD: Yes, sir. What? Hey, Beverly?
CRUSHER: As a physician, it's often my job to give people unpleasant news. To tell them that they need surgery or that they can't have children or that they might be facing a difficult illness.
PICARD: But you said yourself that this is only a possibility.
CRUSHER: But you've been to the future. You know it's going to happen.
PICARD: I prefer to look on the future as something which is not written in stone. A lot of things can happen in twenty five years.
CRUSHER: A lot of things can happen.
LAFORGE (voiceover): Captain?

[Future - Data's library]
LAFORGE: Captain, wake up.
PICARD: Yes. What is it? Have we reached the Neutral Zone?
LAFORGE: The Neutral Zone?
PICARD: Sorry. I was in the past again. What's going on?
LAFORGE: Data's arranged for us to run those tests on you in the biometrics lab. We're ready to go if you are.
PICARD: No, no, no. No, we have to get to the Neutral Zone.
LAFORGE: The Neutral Zone? Why?
PICARD: In the other two time periods, Starfleet reported a sort of a spatial anomaly in, in, in the Devron system. In Devron system in the Neutral Zone.
LAFORGE: Captain.
PICARD: If the anomaly appeared there in the past, then it might be here too and we have to find out.
LAFORGE: Just because you've seen it in two other time frames, doesn't mean that it's going to be here.
PICARD: But if it is here, then it means something. Damn it, Geordi, I know what we have to do!
LAFORGE: All right. Okay. But first, there is no Neutral Zone, remember?
PICARD: Right. Right. Klingons. In this time period, the Klingons have taken over the Romulan Empire.
LAFORGE: Right now relations between us and the Klingons aren't too cozy.
PICARD: I know that. I haven't completely lost my mind, you know.
LAFORGE: Well, if we're going to the Devron system, we're going to need a ship.
PICARD: Right. Now, I think it's time to call in some old favors. Contact Admiral Riker, Starbase two four seven.
RIKER (screen): Jean-Luc, you know I'd like to help, but frankly, what you're asking for is impossible. The Klingons have closed their borders to all Federation starships.
PICARD: Will, if this spatial anomaly really is in the Devron System.
RIKER (screen): I saw a report from Starfleet Intelligence this morning on that sector. There is no activity. There is nothing unusual going on in the Devron system.
PICARD: Well I don't believe it! What if their long range scanners are faulty? We have to go there and see for ourselves.
RIKER (screen): Look, I've got the Yorktown out near the border. I'll have her run some long range scans in the Devron System. If she finds out anything, I'll let you know.
PICARD: Will, that is just not good enough.
RIKER (screen): It's going to have to be. I'm sorry. It's all I can do. Riker out.
DATA: Computer, restore holographic image.
PICARD: Damn him, anyway. After all we've been through together. He's been sitting behind that desk too long.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm sorry. I guess all we can do now is wait and see if the Yorktown finds anything.
DATA: There is another option. We could arrange passage aboard a medical ship.
PICARD: Medical ship?
DATA: Yes, sir. There was an outbreak of Terrellian plague on Romulus. The Klingons have been allowing Federation medical ships to cross the border.
PICARD: Yes. Yes!
LAFORGE: So, What we need is a medical ship.
PICARD: I think I can arrange that. Data, find the USS Pasteur. I have some pull with the Captain. At least, I used to have.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]
CRUSHER: Well, this is a page from the past. I never thought I'd see either of you on a starship again.
LAFORGE: Hello, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Geordi.
DATA: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Data.
PICARD: Let's just choose one.
CRUSHER: All right.
PICARD: So, did you get my message?
CRUSHER: Yes. Jean-Luc, crossing into Klingon territory. It's absurd. But then I never could say no to you.
PICARD: Oh. So that's why you married me.
CRUSHER: Well now, the first order of business is to get clearance to cross the Klingon border.
LAFORGE: Agreed. What about Worf?
PICARD: Yes, that's it. Worf. Yes, that's the answer. Worf will help us.
LAFORGE: Data, isn't Worf still a member of the Klingon High Council?
DATA: I'm not sure. Information on the Klingon political structure is hard to come by these days. However, at last report Worf was governor of H'atoria, a small Klingon colony near the border.
CHILTON: Captain Picard?
CRUSHER: Yes?
CHILTON: Captain, McKinley Station is signaling. They want to know when we'll be docking.
CRUSHER: Tell McKinley we've been called away on a priority mission.
CHILTON: Aye, sir.
PICARD: So, you kept the name.
CRUSHER: I've prepared quarters for you on deck five. You might want to get some rest.
PICARD: No, I'm fine. I don't need rest.
CRUSHER: Nell, please escort the Ambassador to his quarters.
PICARD: Look, you are treating me as if I am an invalid. I do have a few years left in me yet. I do not want to be led around, and I do not want to be patronized.
CRUSHER: You're right. I'm sorry.
PICARD: Now, I'll go and get some rest.
CRUSHER: How long since his last neurological scan?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, but I wouldn't try suggesting it. He says he's not taking any more damn tests.
CRUSHER: Do you really think he's moving through time? I'm not sure I do either. But he's Jean-Luc Picard and if he wants to go on one more mission, that's what we're going to do.

[Future - Pasteur turbolift]
PICARD: We'll find the anomaly. I know we will.

[Past - Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
O'BRIEN: We're nearing the coordinates you gave me, sir.
PICARD: Is there anything unusual in the vicinity, Mister Data?
DATA: How would you define unusual, sir? Every region of space has its own unique properties that cannot be found anywhere else.
PICARD: There should be a barrier of some sort nearby. A large plasma field, highly disruptive.
DATA: Nothing, sir.
PICARD: This is the right time, the right place. He should be here now.
O'BRIEN: Who, sir?
PICARD: Q! We're here! This has gone on long enough! Counselor, do you sense an alien presence?
TROI: No, sir.
WORF: What is a Q?
TASHA: It's a letter of the alphabet, as far as I know.
PICARD: I don't understand. This is not the way it's supposed to happen. Maintain this position. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Courtroom]
Q: Mon capitane. I thought you'd never get here.
PICARD: Q. I knew it. What's going on?
Q: It's Judge Q to you. And isn't it obvious what's going on?
PICARD: The last time that I stood here was seven years ago.
Q: Seven years ago. How little do you mortals understand time. Must you be so linear, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: You accused me of being the representative of a barbarous species.
Q: I believe my exact words were a dangerous, savage, child race.
PICARD: We demonstrated to you that mankind had become peaceful and benevolent. You agreed and you let us go on our way. Now why am I standing here again?
Q: Oh, you'd like me to connect the dots for you, lead you from A to B to C so your puny mind can comprehend. How boring. They'd be so much more entertained if you tried to figure it out. I'll answer any ten questions that call for a yes or a no. Well?
PICARD: Are you putting mankind on trial again?
Q: No.
PICARD: Is there any connection between the trial seven years ago and whatever's going on now?
Q: I'd have to say yes.
PICARD: The spatial anomaly in the Neutral Zone, is it related to what's happening?
Q: Most definitely yes.
PICARD: Is it part of a Romulan plot, a ploy to start a war?
Q: No and no. Five down.
PICARD: That's only four.
Q: Is it a Romulan plot? Is it a ploy to start a war? Those are separate questions.
PICARD: Did you create the anomaly?
Q: No, no, no. You're going to be so surprised when you realize where it came from, if you ever figure it out.
PICARD: Are you responsible for my shifting through time?
Q: I'll answer that question if you promise you won't tell anyone. Yes.
PICARD: Why?
Q: Sorry. That's not a yes or no question. You forfeit the rest of your questions. I expected as much. You're such a limited creature. A perfect example of why we made our decision. The trial never ended, Captain. We never reached a verdict. But now we have. You're guilty.
PICARD: Guilty of what?
Q: Of being inferior. Seven years ago I said we'd be watching you, and we have been, hoping that your ape-like race would demonstrate some growth, give some indication that your minds have room for expansion. But what have we seen instead? You worrying about Commander Riker's career, listening to Counselor Troi's pedantic psychobabble, indulging Data in his witless exploration of humanity.
PICARD: We've journeyed to countless new worlds, we've contacted new species, we have expanded our understanding of the universe.
Q: In your own paltry, limited way. You have no idea how far you still have to go. But instead of using the last seven years to change and to grow, you have squandered them.
PICARD: We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not for you to set the standards by which we should be judged.
Q: Oh, but it is, and we have. Time may be eternal, Captain, but our patience is not. It's time to put an end to your trek through the stars, make room for other more worthy species.
PICARD: You're going to deny us travel through space?
Q: You obtuse piece of flotsam. You are to be denied existence. Humanity's fate has been sealed. You will be destroyed.
PICARD: Q, I do not believe that even you are capable of such an act.
Q: I? There you go again, always blaming me for everything. Well this time I'm not your enemy. I'm not the one that causes the annihilation of mankind. You are.
PICARD: Me?
Q: That's right. You're doing it right now. You did it before and you'll do it again.
PICARD: What sort of meaningless doubletalk is this?
Q: He doesn't understand. I have only myself to blame, I suppose. I believed in you. I thought you had potential. But apparently I was wrong. May whatever god you believe in have mercy on your soul. This court stands adjourned.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander, assemble the senior staff and go to Red alert. We have a bigger problem than I thought.
RIKER: Red alert!

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I don't believe him. This has to be another one of Q's games. He's probably listening to us right now, getting a big laugh out of watching us jump through his hoops.
PICARD: Normally I would agree with you, but this time I feel that somehow it is different. There was a deadly earnestness about him. I think he's serious. Which means that in some fashion, I am going to be the cause of the destruction of humanity.
CRUSHER: But didn't Q say you already had caused it?
TROI: And that you were causing it now?
DATA: Given the fact that there is an apparent discontinuity between the three time periods the Captain has visited, Q's statement may be accurate, if confusing.
PICARD: So what am I going to do? Lock myself in a room in all three different time periods?
RIKER: Captain, maybe not acting is what causes the destruction of mankind. What if you were needed on the Bridge at a key moment, and you weren't there?
TROI: I don't think we can start second guessing ourselves. I think we have to proceed normally and deal with each situation as it occurs.
PICARD: Agreed. I've been thinking about my conversation with Q. He admitted that he was responsible for my shifting through time. Now it occurred to me that he might be giving me a chance somehow to save humanity.
RIKER: What makes you say that?
PICARD: Well, he's always had a certain fascination with humanity, with myself in particular. I think he has more than a passing interest in what happens to me.
DATA: That is true. Q's interest in you has always been very similar to that of a master and his beloved pet. That was only an analogy, Captain.
PICARD: If I weren't traveling through time I would never have realized that the anomaly in the Neutral Zone appeared there in the past as well. Assuming that's an important piece of a larger puzzle, my ability to shift through time may be the key to understanding what's going on.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
CREWMAN (voiceover): We're approaching the Neutral Zone, Captain.
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stop. Initiate long range scans.
DATA: Captain, there are four warbirds holding position on the Romulan side of the Neutral Zone.
WORF: The Federation Starships Concord and Bozeman are holding position on our side.
RIKER: A face off. The question is, who's going to move first?
PICARD: We are. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan flagship.
WORF: The warbird Terix is responding.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF (screen): Captain Picard.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]
CRUSHER: Hello, Worf. It's been a long time.
WORF (screen): It is good to see you again.
CRUSHER: Have you had a chance to read our request?
WORF (screen): Yes. But you must realize I am no longer a member of the High Council.
PICARD: But surely, Worf, you must still have some influence. We have to get into the Neutral Zone. Can't you just get us permission to cross the border?
WORF (screen): I must refuse. It is for your own safety. The Neutral Zone is extremely volatile. If Admiral Riker had given you a starship with a cloak, you would have been safe. It is hard to believe that even he would refuse to help you.
PICARD: I don't care what kind of ship we go in. We have to get to the Devron System.
WORF (screen): I am sorry. My first duty is to the Empire. I must adhere to regulations.
PICARD: I know that I'm an old man and I'm out of touch, but the Worf that I remember was more concerned with things like honor and loyalty than rules and regulations. But that was a long time ago. Maybe you're not the Worf once I knew.
WORF (screen): Dor sHo GHA! You have always used your knowledge of Klingon honor and tradition to get what you want from me.
PICARD: Because it always works, Worf. Your problem is that you really do have a sense of honor and you really do care about trust and loyalty. Don't blame me for knowing you so well.
WORF (screen): Very well. You may cross the border. But only if I come with you. I am familiar with the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Terms accepted.
CRUSHER: Inform transporter room two to beam the Governor aboard. I must make one thing very clear, Jean-Luc. If we run into any serious opposition, I'm taking us back into Federation territory. We aren't well armed and wouldn't last long in a fight.
CHILTON: Governor Worf is aboard, Captain.
CRUSHER: All right. Set course for the Devron system, warp thirteen. Once more, for old time's sake?
PICARD: Engage.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Engage to where, sir?
PICARD: Set a course for the Devron system, and engage at warp nine.
TASHA: The Devron System is inside the Neutral Zone, sir.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant. Carry out my orders, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
TROI: Captain, may I have a word with you in private?
PICARD: Yes of course, Counselor. Contact Farpoint Station. I wish to speak with Commander Riker.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Past - Ready room]
TROI: Captain, I just wanted to voice my concerns about the way the crew is responding to your unexpected orders.
PICARD: They don't trust me. They think that I'm behaving erratically.
TROI: Some do. Others are confused. It takes some time for a new crew to get to know their Captain, and for him to know them.
PICARD: I understand, but I also know what this crew is capable of, even if they don't.
TROI: It would also help if they knew what was going on.
PICARD: I know it's difficult operating in the dark, but right now I don't think I have any other choice.
TASHA (voiceover): Yar to Captain Picard. I have Commander Riker for you, sir.
PICARD: Excuse me. Put him through here. Commander Riker. I wanted to inform you that we'll be delayed in picking you up at Farpoint Station.
RIKER (voiceover): I see. May I ask how long?
PICARD: I can't say. I'll keep you updated. Will you inform Doctor Crusher and Lieutenant La Forge of our delay?
RIKER (screen): Understood.
RIKER (voiceover): Riker out.
PICARD: Is there anything else, Counselor?
TROI: Actually, sir, there is. I was debating whether to mention it, and perhaps. It's about Commander Riker.
PICARD: What about him?
TROI: I think you should know he and I have had a prior relationship.
PICARD: I see. Do you think this will interfere with your duties?
TROI: Not at all. It happened several years ago and it's well behind both of us now. I just thought you should know.
PICARD: I appreciate your telling me, but I'm quite sure that the two of you will find some way to deal with the situation.
TROI: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Tea, Earl Gray, hot.
COMPUTER: That beverage has not been programmed into the replication system.

[Bridge]
TOMALAK (screen): So, Captain how long shall we stare at each other across the Neutral Zone?
PICARD: There is an alternative, Tomolak. We each know why we're here. We could each send one ship into the Neutral Zone to investigate the anomaly in the Devron System.
TOMALAK (screen): Has Starfleet Command approved this arrangement?
PICARD: No.
TOMALAK (screen): I like it already. Agreed. One ship from each side. But I warn you, if another Federation starship tries to enter the Zone.
PICARD: There is no need to make threats. We each know the consequences.
TOMALAK (screen): Very well. I'll see you in the Devron system.
PICARD: Helm, set course for the Devron system, warp five.
GATES: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly ahead.
PICARD: All stop. On screen. Full scan, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: We have to get as much information as possible about that anomaly.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching the Devron system, Captain. Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly ahead.
PICARD: All stop. On screen. Then it is larger in the past.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Nothing. Full scan, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]
PICARD: On screen! On screen! Let's see it!
DATA: As you can see, sir, there's nothing there.
DATA: Still nothing, Captain. I've conducted a full sensor sweep out to one light year from the Pasteur. No temporal anomalies, no particle fluctuations, nothing.
PICARD: I don't understand. It was here in the other two time periods. Why isn't it here now?
WORF: Captain. I have been monitoring Klingon communication channels. Several warships have been dispatched to this sector to search for a renegade Federation vessel.
PICARD: You're not thinking about leaving?
CRUSHER: There's nothing here, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: There should be! There has to be! Data, is there some other way to scan for a temporal disturbance? Something that isn't covered in a normal sensor sweep.
DATA: There are several methods of detecting temporal disturbances, but we're limited by the equipment on the Pasteur.
CRUSHER: We should head back to Federation territory.
DATA: However, it may be possible to modify the main deflector to emit an inverse tachyon pulse, which could scan beyond the subspace barrier.
PICARD: That's it. Make it so.
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. Data, how long would this take?
DATA: To make the modifications and search the entire Devron system will take approximately fourteen hours.
CRUSHER: All right. Data, begin to modify the tachyon pulse. Ensign Chilton, lay in a course back to the Federation. We'll stay here for six more hours, and if we haven't found anything we're heading back, maximum warp.
CHILTON: Aye, sir.
PICARD: But six more hours may not be enough. We have to stay here until we find it, no matter how long it takes.
CRUSHER: Carry out my orders. May I see you a moment?

[Future - USS Pasteur Ready room]
PICARD: Beverly, I cannot believe that you are not willing to stay here until we
CRUSHER: Don't you ever question my orders on the Bridge of my ship again!
PICARD: Damn it, I was just trying to. Look, there are larger concerns here. What you don't understand is that
CRUSHER: I understand that you would never have tolerated that kind of behavior back on the Enterprise and I won't here. I don't care if you're my ex-Captain or my ex-husband.
PICARD: You're right. I was out of line. It won't happen again. But what you have to understand is what is at stake here. Q has said that all of humanity will be destroyed.
CRUSHER: I know. That's why I've allowed us to stay here longer and keep looking. But I also want you to allow for the possibility that none of what you're saying is real.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I care for you too much not to tell you the truth. You have advanced Irumodic Syndrome. It's possible that all of this is in your mind. I'll stay here six hours longer and then we're heading home. I want you to remember, if it were anyone but you, we wouldn't even be here.
Q: Eh? What was that she said, sonny? I couldn't quite hear her.
PICARD: Q? What is going on here? Where is the anomaly?
Q: Where's your mommy? Well, I don't know.
PICARD: Answer me.
Q: There is an answer, Jean-Luc, but I can't hand it to you. Although you do have help.
PICARD: What help?
Q: You're not alone, you know. What you were and what you are to become will always with you.
PICARD: My time shifting. The answer does lie there, doesn't it. Now, tell me one thing. This anomaly we're looking for, will that destroy humanity?
Q: You're forgetting, Jean-Luc. You destroy humanity.
PICARD: By doing what? When? How can

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: The anomaly is two hundred million kilometers in diameter. It is a highly focused temporal energy source which is emitting approximately the same energy output as ten G type stars.
PICARD: What is the source of this energy?
DATA: I am uncertain, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate the anomaly.
PICARD: What if we modified the main deflector to emit an inverse tachyon pulse. That might be able to scan beyond the subspace barrier. That might give us some idea of what the interior of this thing looks like.
DATA: That is a most intriguing idea, sir. I do not believe a tachyon beam was ever used in such a way. I had no idea you were so versed in the intricacies of temporal theory, sir.
PICARD: I have some friends who are quite well versed in it. Make it so.
DATA: I believe we can make the necessary modifications in main Engineering, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We can get more power if we reroute the primary EPS taps to the deflector array.
DATA: Agreed. Initiating tachyon pulse.
LAFORGE: Okay. the pulse is holding steady. We're starting to receive data from the scan.
DATA: It will take the computer some time to give us a complete picture of the anomaly's interior. I suggest we
DATA: Geordi? What is wrong?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like somebody's sticking an ice pick in my temples. My visor's picking up all kinds of electromagnetic fluctuations.
DATA: Data to Sickbay. Medical emergency in main Engineering.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is amazing. The DNA in his optic nerves is regenerating. Geordi, it's as if you're growing new eyes.
PICARD: How is this possible?
CRUSHER: It shouldn't be possible at all. There's no medical explanation for spontaneous regeneration of an organ.
OGAWA: Doctor we've just gotten reports from two crewmembers who say they have old scars which are healing themselves.
DATA: Captain, I believe I have a partial explanation. I have completed my analysis of the anomaly. It appears to be a multi-phasic temporal convergence in the space-time continuum.
CRUSHER: In English, Data.
DATA: It is, in essence, an eruption of anti-time.
PICARD: Anti-time?
DATA: A relatively new concept in temporal mechanics. The relationship between anti-time and normal time is analogous to the relationship between antimatter and normal matter.
PICARD: So if time and anti-time were to collide
DATA: They would annihilate one other, causing a rupture in space. I believe this is what happened in the Devron system. The rupture may be sending out waves of temporal energy which are disrupting the normal flow of time.
PICARD: Data, what could have caused this collision of time and anti-time?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Anti-time, sir?
PICARD: I believe that if you modify the deflectors to send out an inverse tachyon pulse, then you'll find that the anomaly is a rupture between time and anti-time.
DATA: That is a fascinating hypothesis. How did you formulate
PICARD: I don't have time to discuss it now, Mister Data. Do the modifications and send out the pulse. Then try working on a theory as to what caused this rupture. Mister O'Brien, how large is this anomaly?
O'BRIEN: Approximately four hundred million kilometers in diameter, sir.
PICARD: I don't understand why it's bigger in the past.
PICARD: Lieutenant, you have the Bridge. I'll be in my Ready room.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]
PICARD: What's going on?
CRUSHER: We're under attack.
CHILTON: Shield strength down to fifty two percent. Minor damage to the port nacelle.
WORF: Two Klingon attack cruisers decloaking to port and starboard.
CRUSHER: Warp speed. Get us out of here.
CHILTON: Warp power's offline, sir.
CRUSHER: Heading one four eight, mark two one five. Full impulse.
CHILTON: Impulse power's fluctuating. Shields down to thirty percent.
PICARD: Weapons status?
WORF: These weapons are no match for their shields.
CRUSHER: Geordi, we need more warp power, now.
LAFORGE: I'm trying, Captain. They're too much for us. I can't keep the phase inducers online.
CHILTON: Shields down to nine percent. One more hit and they'll collapse.
CRUSHER: Open a channel.
CHILTON: Open.
CRUSHER: This is Captain Beverly Picard. We are a medical ship on a mission of mercy. Please break off all Worf, signal our surrender.
WORF: Tos Vah'cha Worf, do'lo jegh!
WORF: Our shields have collapsed. We are defenseless.
DATA: Captain, another ship decloaking bearing two one five mark three one oh. It's the Enterprise.
DATA: They're hailing us.
CRUSHER: On screen.
RIKER: I had a feeling you weren't going to listen to me. Stand by. I'll see if I can get the Klingons' attention.
WORF: The Enterprise is drawing their fire.
CRUSHER: Damage report.
LAFORGE: The warp core has been badly damaged. There's a breach in progress.
PICARD: We have to stop it!
DATA: The Klingon ship is disengaging. Admiral Riker is hailing us.
RIKER: Our sensors indicate your ship has a warp core breach in progress. Prepare for emergency beam out.

[Future Bridge]
GAINES: All the Pasteur's crew are safely on board, Admiral.
RIKER: Raise the shields. Where are the Klingons?
GAINES: They're still moving off, sir. Half a light year away.
RIKER: They'll be back. As I said, I figured you wouldn't take no for answer. But I thought you had more sense than to send a defenseless ship across the border into hostile territory with no escort.
WORF: If you had not turned down the Captain when he came to you for help, none of this would have happened. Unlike you, I still have a sense of honor and loyalty.
PICARD: We don't have time for this. The Pasteur's core is going to breach.
RIKER: Take us out of here. Full impulse.
RIKER: All right, let's get out of here.
PICARD: No, Will, we can't! We have to save humanity.
RIKER: Engage cloak.
GAINES: Admiral, we took a direct hit to the starboard plasma coil. Our cloak isn't functioning. Engineering reports it'll be seven hours before we can cloak again.
RIKER: All right, we'll do it the old-fashioned way. Set a course for the Federation, warp thirteen.
PICARD: Will, don't leave! We have to stay here and find what is causing the temporal anomaly.
RIKER: We can't stay, Captain.
PICARD: We have to! Everything depends on it! We can't leave now! Please, listen to me!

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Your visual acuity's improving by the hour, Geordi.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, Alyssa. May I take another look? You'll have a little tenderness for a few days. That's to be expected.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. I'll be right back, Alyssa.
CRUSHER: Alyssa lost the baby. I think it's the same phenomenon that affected Geordi. Somehow, the temporal energy from the anomaly caused the fetal tissue to revert to an earlier stage of development. It's as if the unborn child began to grow younger, until finally the DNA itself began to break down.
PICARD: How is she?
CRUSHER: Physically, she's fine for now. But if this temporal reversion continues, I don't think any of us are going to be fine for much longer.
PICARD: So this is affecting the entire crew.
CRUSHER: Our cellular structures appear to be coalescing, reverting to earlier forms. In some cases, this has caused old injuries to be healed, but the effect is only temporary. Eventually, may kill all of us.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We have to find out how widespread this effect is. Contact Starbase Twenty three, that's the nearest outpost. Have them check their personnel to see if there are any signs of temporal reversion.
TROI: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, how close are you to completing the tachyon scan?
DATA: Approximately one hour forty five minutes, sir.
PICARD: Good. When it's done I want you to find some way of collapsing this anomaly without making things worse. Give me a risk analysis of whatever solution you come up with.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed.
Q: It's a pretty big decision, Jean-Luc. Tinkering with an anomaly you know nothing about, trying to collapse it. Isn't that risky?
PICARD: Why? Will that cause the destruction of mankind?
Q: Maybe. On the other hand, maybe leaving it alone would be the wrong thing to do. It's a pretty big decision, all right. Would it help to have a different perspective?

[Primordial Earth]
Q: Welcome home.
PICARD: Home?
Q: Don't you recognize your old stomping grounds? This is Earth, France, about, oh, three and a half billion years ago, give or take an eon or two. Smells awful, doesn't it? All that sulfur and volcanic ash. I really must speak to the maid.
PICARD: Q, is there any point to all this?
Q: Look.
PICARD: So the anomaly is here too, at Earth.
Q: At this point in history the anomaly fills your entire quadrant of the galaxy.
PICARD: The further back in time, the larger the anomaly.
Q: Come here. There's something I want to show you. You see this?
Q: This is you. I'm serious. Right here, life is about to form on this planet for the very first time. A group of amino acids are about to combine and form the first protein, the building blocks of what you call life. Strange, isn't it? Everything you know, your entire civilization, it all begins right here in this little pond of goo. Appropriate, somehow, isn't it? Too bad you didn't bring your microscope. It's really quite fascinating. Oh, look, there they go. The amino acids are moving closer and closer, and closer. Oh! Nothing happened. See what you've done?
PICARD: Are you saying that I caused the anomaly, and that the anomaly somehow disrupted the beginnings of life on Earth?
Q: Congratulations.

[Past - Engineering]
PICARD: Let's concentrate on how this anomaly was initially formed. Speculation?
DATA: Our tachyon pulse has been unable to completely penetrate the anomaly. If we had information on the center of the phenomenon, we might have a basis for speculation.
PICARD: Is there any way that we can scan the interior?
O'BRIEN: I've tried everything I know. There's just too much interference. There's nothing on board that'll do the job.
PICARD: Do you know what could?
DATA: In theory, a tomographic imaging scanner capable of multiphasic resolution would be able to penetrate this much interference. The Daystrom Institute has been working on such a device, but it is still only theoretical.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data do we have a tomographic imaging scanner on board?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Can you use it to scan the interior of the anomaly?
DATA: Possibly. There is a great deal of interference, but I am getting some readings. This is very unusual.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: It appears that our tachyon pulse is converging with two other tachyon pulses at the center of the anomaly. The other two pulses have the exact same amplitude modulation as our own pulse. It is as if all three originated from the Enterprise.
PICARD: Three pulses, from three time periods, converging at one point in space.
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?

[Future - Enterprise guest quarters]
PICARD: Computer, where is Admiral Riker?
COMPUTER: Admiral Riker is in Ten Forward.

[Future - Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: The ship has held up pretty well over the years.
RIKER: They tried to decommission her about five years ago. One of the advantages of being an Admiral is you get to choose your own ship.
CRUSHER: Will, how long is this thing between you and Worf going to go on?
RIKER: It's been going on for over twenty years. Doesn't look like it's going to end any time soon.
DATA: I suspect the last thing Counselor Troi would have wanted is for the two of you to be alienated.
CRUSHER: I agree. I think it's time to put it behind you.
RIKER: I tried at Deanna's funeral. He wouldn't even talk to me.
LAFORGE: Might have been tough for him then. He took her death pretty hard.
RIKER: Oh, yeah? Well he wasn't the only one.
CRUSHER: I know, but I think in his mind you were the reason that he and Deanna never got together.
RIKER: I never did anything to stand in his way.
CRUSHER: Didn't you, Will?
RIKER: Did I? I didn't want to admit that it was over. I always thought that we'd get together again. And then she was gone. You think you have all the time in the world, until. Yeah.

[Future - Corridor]
PICARD: Ensign. How do I get to Ten Forward?
ENSIGN: It's four decks down, sir. Section zero zero five.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Future - Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Oh, my god.
PICARD: Will! Will, I know why it's happening. I know what's causing the anomaly. We have to go back.
RIKER: The only place we're going back to, sir, is bed.
PICARD: Damn it Will, I know why it's happening. We caused the anomaly with the tachyon pulse. It happened three times, Will. We did it in three different time periods!
CRUSHER: I think you'd better come with me.
PICARD: Will you leave me alone? Damn it, I'm not stupid. Will, the tachyon pulses, they were used in the same spot in three different time periods. Don't you see? When the tachyon pulse used. I mean, I mean when the Pasteur used the tachyon pulse, then, then, we I mean everything started, Will. We set everything in motion. It's like the chicken and the egg, Will, the chicken and the egg! We think it started in the past but it didn't. It started right here, in the future. That's why it's getting larger in the past.
DATA: I think I know what the Captain's talking about. If I'm not mistaken, he's describing a paradox.
PICARD: Yes! Right. That's it.
DATA: Intriguing. It is possible we could've caused the very anomaly we've been looking for. Let us assume for a moment that the Captain has been traveling through time. Let us also assume he has initiated an tachyon pulse at the same coordinates in space in all three time periods. In that case, it is possible that the convergence of three tachyon pulses could've ruptured the subspace barrier and created an anti-time reaction.
LAFORGE: I see where you're going, Data. And because anti-time operates opposite the way normal time does, the effects would travel backwards through the space-time continuum.
PICARD: Yes. That's why it gets larger in the past. It grows as it travels backwards in time.
RIKER: All right. Just for the moment lets say that you're right. What do we do?
PICARD: Go back, Will. We go back to the Devron System.
CRUSHER: He may be right.
DATA: If we go back to the Devron system now, we might be able to see the initial formation of the anomaly.
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. Set course for the Devron system, maximum warp.
GAINES (voiceover): Aye, sir.
RIKER: Worf, we could use a hand.

[Future - Bridge]
GAINES: Entering the Devron system, sir.
RIKER: Full stop.
DATA: Sensors are picking up a small temporal anomaly off the port bow.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD: I was right.
LAFORGE: It's an anti-time eruption. It seems to have been formed within the last six hours.
PICARD: We must stop it here so it can't travel back through time.
RIKER: Mister Data, we need a solution and we need it now.
DATA: The anomaly is being sustained by the continuing tachyon pulses in the other two time periods. I suggest shutting them down.
PICARD: The next time I'm there, it's the first thing I'll do.
RIKER: Isn't there something more we can do here to seal the rupture somehow?
DATA: I will investigate the options.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, disengage the tachyon pulse.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Do it. The convergence of the tachyon pulses from the three time periods is what is causing the anomaly.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Is there any change in the anomaly?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Disengage the tachyon pulse.
O'BRIEN: but e haven't finished the scan, sir.
PICARD: I know that. But it is imperative that you disengage the tachyon pulse immediately.
DATA: Aye, sir. Disengaging.
PICARD: Why isn't the anomaly being affected?
O'BRIEN: Why would it be, sir?

[Future - Bridge]
PICARD: I've shut off the tachyon pulses in the other time periods but it hasn't changed the anomaly.
DATA: It remains unaffected here as well, sir.
CRUSHER: What do we do?
LAFORGE: The only way to stop this thing's to repair the rupture at the focal point where time and anti-time are converging.
RIKER: How do we do that?
DATA: It would require taking the ship into the anomaly itself. Once inside, we may be able to use the engines to create a static warp shell.
LAFORGE: Yeah, Data, that's right. And the shell would act as an artificial subspace barrier separating time and anti-time.
DATA: Collapsing the anomaly and restoring the normal flow of time. But this would have to be done in the other two time periods as well.
PICARD: That could be a problem. The anomaly's so much larger in the other two time periods

[Past - Bridge]
PICARD: It may be dangerous to take the ship in.
O'BRIEN: Take the ship in where, sir?
PICARD: Into the anomaly, Chief. Lay in a course for the exact center and transfer all available power to the shields.
TASHA: Sir? Can you give us some explanation?
PICARD: No, Lieutenant, I cannot.
TASHA: Captain, so far we've obeyed every order, no matter how far fetched it might have seemed. But if we're to risk the safety of the ship and crew I think we have to ask you for an explanation.
PICARD: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant, and I know if I were in your position I would be doing the same thing. Looking for answers. But you're not going to find any because I don't have any to give you. I know it is difficult for you to understand, but we have to take the ship into the very center of the phenomenon and create a static warp shell. Now, this will put the ship at risk. Quite frankly, we may not survive. But I want you to believe that I am doing this for a greater purpose, and that what is at stake here is more than any of you can possibly imagine. I know you have your doubts about me, about each other, about the ship. All I can say is that although we have only been together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the fleet and I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you for a leap of faith, and to trust me.
TASHA: Shields up, maximum strength.
WORF: Boosting field integrity to the warp nacelles. We may encounter shearing forces once we enter the anomaly.
DATA: I am preparing to initiate a static warp shell.
O'BRIEN: Course laid in, sir.
TROI: All decks report ready, sir.
PICARD: Take us in, Chief.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I have an idea. If we take the ship to the center of the anomaly and create a static warp shell
PICARD: A static warp shell. It could repair the barrier and collapse the anomaly.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, you're a clever man in any time period. Helm, lay in a course for the center of the anomaly and prepare to initiate a static warp shell.
HELM: Aye, sir.

[Future - Bridge]
PICARD: The other two Enterprises, they're on their way.
RIKER: Very well. Ensign, take us in.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: We're entering the anomaly, sir.
PICARD: All hands, brace for impact!
TASHA: The temporal energy's interfering with main power. Switching to

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Auxiliary power. I'm having trouble keeping the impulse engines online. I've got power fluctuations all across the board.
PICARD: Maintain course and speed. Mister Data, how long until we reach the center?
DATA: At least thirty seconds, sir.

[Future - Bridge]
GAINES: We've entered the anomaly.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: We have reached the center, sir.
PICARD: Initiate warp shell!

[Bridge]
DATA: Initiating static warp shell now.

[Future - Bridge]
RIKER: Is it having any effect?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Something is happening. A new subspace barrier appears to be forming,
TASHA: Captain, the sensors are picking up two other ships.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Captain, it appears to be working. The anomaly is beginning to collapse. I think that
TASHA: Temporal energy is rupturing our warp containment system!
WORF: We must eject the core!
PICARD: No, we have to maintain the static warp shell as long as possible!
TASHA: We're losing containment, Captain! I can't stop it, it's going to

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transfer emergency power to the antimatter containment system!
LAFORGE: I'm trying, but there's a lot of interference.
DATA: The warp shell is definitely having an effect, sir. The anomaly is collapsing.
LAFORGE: I can't hold it. The containment system is going.
PICARD: Maintain position! Mister La

[Future - Bridge]
DATA: Both of the other ships have been destroyed.
Q: Two down, one to go.
PICARD: Data, report!
DATA: The anomaly is nearly collapsed.
LAFORGE: We're losing containment.
Q: Goodbye, Jean-Luc. I'm going to miss you. You had such potential. But then again, all good things must come to an end.
LAFORGE: Containment field is at critical. I'm losing it!

[Courtroom]
Q: The Continuum didn't think you had it in you, Jean-Luc, but I knew you did.
PICARD: Are you saying that it worked? We collapsed the anomaly?
Q: Is that all this meant to you? Just another spatial anomaly? Just another day at the office?
PICARD: Did it work?
Q: Well, you're here, aren't you? You're talking to me, aren't you?
PICARD: What about my crew?
Q: The anomaly. My crew. My ship. I suppose you're worried about your fish, too. Well, if it puts your mind at ease, you've saved humanity once again.
PICARD: Thank you.
Q: For what?
PICARD: You had a hand in helping me get out of this.
Q: I was the one that got you into it. A directive from the Continuum. The part about the helping hand, thought, was my idea.
PICARD: I sincerely hope that this is the last time that I find myself here.
Q: You just don't get it, do you, Jean-Luc? The trial never ends. We wanted to see if you had the ability to expand your mind and your horizons. And for one brief moment, you did.
PICARD: When I realized the paradox.
Q: Exactly. For that one fraction of a second, you were open to options you had never considered. That is the exploration that awaits you. Not mapping stars and studying nebulae, but charting the unknowable possibilities of existence.
PICARD: Q, what is it that you're trying to tell me?
Q: You'll find out. In any case, I'll be watching. And if you're very lucky, I'll drop by to say hello from time to time. See you out there.

[Corridor]
TROI: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Mister Worf, what's the date?
WORF: Stardate 47988.
TROI: Is something wrong, sir?
PICARD: No. No. No. I think I'll get back to bed. I could use some sleep.
PICARD (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Starfleet Command reports no unusual activity along the Neutral Zone, and there is no sign of a temporal anomaly. It would appear that I am the only member of the crew to retain any knowledge of the events I experienced.

[Riker's quarters]
CRUSHER: Take it.
RIKER: Any time, Doctor.
LAFORGE: Four hands in a row. How does he do it?
RIKER: I cheat. I'm kidding.
CRUSHER: You know, I was thinking about what the Captain told us about the future. About how we all changed and drifted apart. Why would he want to tell us what's to come?
LAFORGE: Sure goes against everything we've heard about not polluting the time line, doesn't it.
DATA: I believe, however, this situation is unique. Since the anomaly did not occur, there have already been changes in the way this time line is unfolding. The future we experience will undoubtedly be different from the one the Captain encountered.
RIKER: Maybe that's why he told us. Knowing what happens in that future allows us to change things now, so that some things never happen.
WORF: Agreed.
RIKER: Come in.
TROI: Am I too late?
RIKER: Of course not. Pull up a chair.
TROI: What's the game?
DATA: Five card draw, deuces wild.
RIKER: Come.
RIKER: Is there a problem, sir?
PICARD: No. I, er, I just thought that I might, erm, I might join you this evening. If there's room.
RIKER: Of course. Have a seat.
DATA: Would you care to deal, sir?
PICARD: Oh, er, thank you, Mister Data. Actually, I used to be quite a card player in my youth, you know. I should have done this a long time ago.
TROI: You were always welcome.
PICARD: So. Five card stud, nothing wild, and the sky's the limit.